ParlaMint-DK_20210415100003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill no. L 215 (Proposal for a law amending the law on repatriation, etc.) Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 294 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the organisation of an indicative referendum on the Code of Epidemics). The titles of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210415100026	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415100042	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415100105	Thank you. When that is how you suddenly make other ways of adopting motions for resolutions, then it is all about being wracked by the garden gate. I wasn't. However, the report which the committee has decided to endorse also supports the SF, which is why we are also voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415100125	Thank you. Does anyone else want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote. Before I start the vote, I would ask you to check that your name is on the panel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415100130	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 59 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 12 (DF, NB and LA), abstentions 22 (V). The proposal has been adopted and is now being sent to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415100228	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415100245	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (V, DF and KF), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Jens Rohde (UFG) and Inger Støjberg (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 44 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 51 (S, SF, RV, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (V and DF), joined by a minority (Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Jens Rohde (UFG) and Inger Støjberg (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 37 (V, DF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 58 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 5, tabled and joined by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. As there are no more votes, I will now take a break so that we can clean up and scrub off the Chamber before we start the other proposals. We will resume the sitting at 1 p.m. 10.20.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415102026	The sitting is resumed. I do not see Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. We're gonna wait a little while to get started. Then all the rapporteurs are here, and that is why we can get started. The debate is open. It's the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415102616	Thank you for that, and thank the authors of this motion for a resolution. It is a proposal which, if adopted, will mean that private individuals will be allowed to fire fireworks only on New Year's Eve and that the period for the purchase and sale of fireworks will be limited to a period from 26 December to New Year's Eve, that is to say 31 December. The aim of the proposal is to limit the nuisance caused by firing fireworks for domestic and pet animals, and the proposal is therefore put forward, according to the proposers, to increase animal welfare in Denmark. On 23 March, in fact, we debated in this Chamber a citizens' proposal to ban fireworks for private individuals. In this context, there was almost a broad consensus that we in Denmark should be able to launch fireworks when we celebrate the New Year. It is still my view that we must uphold the tradition we have in Denmark to celebrate the New Year with fireworks in the sky. I know it's a celebration that a lot of people appreciate and enjoy that way too, but it's of course important that we deal with fireworks with both caution and respect, because in addition to caring for each other, we also have to take account of our animals and their welfare. In 2014, stricter rules were introduced for the sale and use of fireworks. This was done in order to ensure a better balance between those who rejoice in celebrating the New Year with fireworks and those who feel bothered by fireworks. Before 2014, the period of application of fireworks was from 1 December until 5 January. Before 2014, the sales period started at the same time, i.e. on 1 December. Today fireworks can be purchased from 15 December to 31 December, and the period of application is also down, so it is now only from 27 December to 1 January. It is no coincidence that today there is a difference between the Danish sales and firing period. This is a well-considered decision and is due to the fact that different considerations must be balanced against each other. The 15 December sales period offers consumers good and flexible opportunities to buy fireworks. The sales period has also been determined in the interests of operators at the points of sale who have to meet a number of safety requirements such as: storage and transport. The sale period as it is now allows fireworks to be sold in a flexible manner. This benefits both safety, consumers and business. In addition, the rules in the fireworks sector also provide for a distance requirement of 100 m for buildings and land with livestock. It could, for example, be done. be for dog kennels or agriculture. It is very important that we continue to keep on informing and communicating effectively, both with regard to the applicable fireworks rules, but also with regard to behaviour, so that we ensure safe fireworks behaviour. It is also my clear experience that this is something that the vast majority of Danes, fortunately, can find out, and I would like to stress that the government is following developments in this area every New Year and is constantly assessing whether there is a need for adjustments to the rules or to the efforts of the authorities in general. So I have basically full understanding and respect that you want to limit the genes that fireworks can naturally cause, but at the same time I believe that with the austerity back in 2014, we have found a good balance, so there is room for those who like to buy and fire fireworks, and for them, and this applies to both people and animals who do not like it and who have troubles with it. Against this background, therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103023	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103028	Thank you. It's because I've been brought to my attention by a citizen out there that the Security Agency in Esbjerg is processing and may have decided to reduce the amount in these batteries, i.e. the gunpowder in them. Is that something the Minister is aware of, because it is not something that I remember having been in here about the Folketing? I think that if we go in that way and change the conditions for the industries, it is relevant for us to know. I do not know if the Minister is aware of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103056	I am not on the stand, at least, but of course we will have that checked. I think that it can be handled with a written answer so that information comes to Things and to Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103106	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103109	Thank you. I didn't expect it either. I just wanted to ask you, now that we have the minister here, and it might be that you were familiar with it. But it would be nice to have a written answer as to whether you have actually done so and what the reasons are for it if you have, because I think we could have had a political debate about whether it was the right thing to do, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103124	Thank you, and here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103127	What I am aware of is that there are some EU rules that may be changed, and I think it is about that. But I think something is on the way, and that is why it may be appropriate for us to have that discussion. I would suggest that we take a written round first, and then we can have a political talk on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103149	There seems to be a breakup here, and then we move on to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103155	Thank you for that and thank you for your patience. When all of a sudden it's fast and the mobile elevator is bugged, you're a little panicked, so I'm very grateful you've been waiting. It wasn't so nice to stand there when you knew you were actually supposed to be here, but that's how it can happen sometimes. It's a good thing we have it. The Minister says that we must safeguard traditions, and I fully agree with that. In fact, this was also why the Danish People's Party could not support the citizens' proposal, which was a short time ago, and where you would completely cancel any kind of fireworks. We have limited what can also be seen from the proposal to the fact that it should only be legal for a period of 31 December, when it actually belongs. I just want to draw your attention to that. Because I agree: canceling a long-standing tradition is not what I am interested in either, not at all. I just thought this was so balanced, so I had a hope that the government would look at it positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103256	I was quite sure that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard would look into the traditional element of what is also the reason why, as a government, we do not support the specific proposal. Because it's a tradition, and it is for many people, and by far, the vast majority of people can find a way to fire fireworks in a proper and responsible way. I am quite sure that we can find a balance where we stick to the times that apply to purchases and sales and firing, but where we can also help each other to ensure that the behavior around fireworks becomes safer. And behavior isn't the only thing that you don't have to stand your head over a rocket that shoots off. Behavior is also respectful behaviour towards neighbors, whatever veterans have come home from war, or it is neighbors who have pets, or neighbors who keep livestock, and there is an ongoing work that is being done every year to ensure good fireworks behavior, and I think that is the right way to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103358	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103400	But isn't it silly that the allowed time for firing fireworks is actually 6 days? So, New Year's Eve is 31 December, and we have just done so, that we have said that it is from the morning, because then children can also be allowed to join if they are so small that they cannot be up at 1 p.m. 24.00 on 31 December. That with a period of 6 days I don't see the point, and then we all know it's a different problem, and we may come back to that another time that it extends a lot beyond illegal, and there may be another time we can say that there must be some higher penalties for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103441	One can at least say that the latter is also where one has to ask the question whether it would have the effect, if one were to define it for a single day, because there is, and I note this from my ordinary private life too, of firing outside the period. But having said that, I think that there may be a few days to work with, because many families can be an opportunity for example. children also have the opportunity to shoot away a little bit along with other family members. So I think that a sensible balance has been struck with the way we have the rules today, and that is why we support it, and then there must be an ongoing focus on behavior.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103521	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103522	Thank you and thank the Minister. In relation to following up on how New Year's Eve goes year by year with regard to fireworks damage, I would like to ask whether you are looking at hearing damage as well. One can see from a survey made in Vejle in 2007 that a calculation had been made that 400 people suffered hearing damage due to fireworks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103551	In other words, the damage caused by fireworks is being continuously followed up, but I am simply not an expert on whether it is just eye damage or it is also hearing damage. However, as with the other rapporteur, I would like to say that this is something that we must, of course, investigate and disclose. I am just not fully aware of it today, but I would very much like to return to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103613	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103614	Thank you. I will look forward to getting an answer on what it looks like. Something else is that these injuries happen because of the loud noises. As I am told, the requirement now is that the sound should not exceed 120 dB. Many years ago, the sound of fireworks was taken. Will the Minister be interested to see if you can lower the permitted sound level when firing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103644	Now it doesn't matter what I personally think, but part of the experience with fireworks is also the sound. However, as I said, there will be an adaptation of the EU rules I mentioned earlier and what they give rise to, of course, we have to deal with, but otherwise the government does not have any current plans to change the dB level as it stands. But it is clear that we are also looking at the rules around us, among other things. in the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103718	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103721	I got a little curious. Now the minister said that from his private life he knows that some people are firing fireworks off outside the period. I think that we will just have to deal with those who follow us to clarify whether it is because the minister cannot help firing off such a witch's shelter. Oh, kidding aside. The minister comes up with this to help each other and the ongoing work and things like that, and then I just want to ask him with the private knowledge that the minister has about the ongoing work being done is enough, or whether the minister sees that there are some other measures that can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103756	Thank you. If this should give rise to a misunderstanding as to whether or not I am in breach of the rules governing fireworks, I would like to say that I am not. But I can hear at night, even before 27 December, that others are enjoying it, and that is a nuisance. There is clearly an effort to be made here. We've got one of them. The Security Agency in Esbjerg, which is also under the Ministry of Business, who works with these campaigns, and I know that they focus on year by year, how they can optimize it, and then status is made every year. At this turn of year, we saw a fairly large drop in the number of accidents. Then you can't quite judge whether it's the corona that made people not out there shooting off the same way, or whether it's a trend that's going on. One could hope for the latter because it will certainly give the impression of a better fireworks behavior out there. But no, I didn't shoot myself off out of season.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103858	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. And after despriting, we start the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Orla Hav, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415103928	Thank you for that word. After all, this is an ongoing discussion that Things has had over several times and, as the Minister explained, the rules of the game that have been about the use of fireworks have also been changed in several stages. The Social Democratic Party has continuously helped to find the balance that the Minister is clearly expressing is absolutely essential. We show our joy in our society when we mark the New Year, and we express the joy of firing a rocket or other fireworks. Then I think it is worth noting, perhaps particularly here in a coronatid, that we should also be careful that our society is not so restricted that it is not possible for citizens to express their joy and expectations that there is now a whole new year ahead. And, of course, it is beyond doubt that we must look after each other. We think that the cut has been found quite reasonable in terms of putting pressure on us to have a short period of use of fireworks and a short period of time when we have to buy it. Of course we must also look after the animals we surround ourselves with. That is beyond question. After all, every year there is information about it, and every package that passes over the counter is informed of what is good practice in the use of fireworks, and I think that the vast majority of people know and can show that responsibility in relation to each other and in relation to the animals that we must definitely take care of. And if you are in doubt whether you as a human being are sufficiently careful about the use of fireworks, I think there are two events that are clear in the consciousness of most living people, namely when an entire district of Seest burned out. It gave a reminder that this isn't just a joke, we have it, because it's a dangerous thing to start, and that's why we have to be very careful. In addition, from the North Jutland area we have a terrible accident at Hadsund, I think it was where a person lost his life by misusing some fireworks. So we think that a reasonable cut has been found in relation to this, and I can say in relation to what Mrs Susanne Zimmer has said about damage, that I know at least that the eye departments have an estimate of the damage that is occurring every year on New Year's Eve, and they have been down in recent years and fortunately for that, because it is really important that we get it up and get to the public whether we behaved wisely that evening or whether we were taking risky behaviour, so that we exposed ourselves and others to unnecessary risks. Fortunately, cash settlement comes a few days later, so that both the press and the eye departments can inform about what has happened. I think a lot of people are happy to get a feedback on that. So we are not prepared to support this motion for a resolution, and I should say that neither is the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104311	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104313	In fact, I think it is so wrong to start making restrictions here. Because I just have to repeat it so that everyone understands it, including those who may be watching this: I do not want to ban New Year's fireworks. I don't; I think it's okay. Although it may be hard for these animals to do so, even during the period that I am proposing, I still wish that one should have the pleasure or the right, or whatever it should be, to do so at the time when I think it is reasonable, that is to say on New Year's Eve. And I also don't understand the purchase period... why do you have to have New Year's fireworks lying for 12 days at home before you can start using it in this much earlier period, as it is now? I simply do not understand it; I simply do not understand it. And I think it is reasonable that we should intervene. And it's possible there's enough that the number of injuries etc. We have been put down, but we know 100 per cent of what we are seeing on 1 January these terrible, tragic events. I think we will experience them no matter what, but it can be reduced, also because there are days after when children go and pick it up and still have to fire something off. I do not quite understand why this proposal cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104424	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104425	Well, what I took the liberty of raising the index finger was that we are at a time when there are so many restrictions on all of us, and then the Folketing is taking the chance to introduce another restriction at a time when I think that one might have waited for that. Or one could have followed the discussion we have all along whether we have the right rules of play for the use of fireworks, and that is where I think, in fact, that we have hit the dial roughly with the rules that are currently in place. So I really have nothing more to add to it. It is important that we have a people who have the opportunity to show joy and thus also have the opportunity to show the responsibility which is, of course, linked to being allowed to let go a little. I think that's important too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104517	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104519	Well, there's too much irresponsibility. Now I'm gonna take this up with restrictions. Well, I sincerely hope that by New Year's Eve 2021, the restrictions will have ceased unless, of course, the Prime Minister believes that, whether we are all vaccinated, we still need to get some restrictions away. But I very much hope that it is over and we have an ordinary New Year's Eve. That is also why we are presenting this at this time, because then everyone can get on with it. Well, the one with restrictions just doesn't work. But does that mean that when we're 100 percent over all this corona stuff because we're gonna get there at some point, there aren't real restrictions, hopefully, and then we can start talking about it again? That is how I hear the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104600	I do not think the rapporteur is listening. I expressed my main view that we have found a sensible cut between the considerations which must of course be taken into account. And then, allow me to say that we are at a time when, because of the recommendations that the health authorities are not going to address to any politician, we need to get through this epidemic that we are in, we have some restrictions. Then I do not understand why we should discuss any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104632	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104635	Thank you, and thank you to the rapporteur for pointing out that the number of eye injuries is high, and it is a good thing that there are falling figures. But I would say that any damage to the eyes is too much, especially because, as far as many of them are concerned, it is children who are affected, and not always some who are directly involved in fireworks. But what is also the problem is that you can calculate some things and that other things are harder to calculate. If we return to hearing damage, it's hard to determine right now whether that damage is there. In other words, some of the damage that can occur is that you get tinnitus, which turns out over a long period of time. Another thing that is hard to determine is how much we affect nature and animals and the environment in relation to fireworks. So I'm thinking that you should be careful not to say that you're doing something and that it looks good, but what about everything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104721	I think that Mrs Susanne Zimmer has some reasonable and proper considerations about how we are going to deal with the risks and how we have dealt with those risks, and I think it is appropriate to ask the Minister a question and have a little explanation of that. I'm also a little unsure about that one with the fuck effect in relation to fireworks, because I remember in my childhood that the Chinese were banned, that is, the ones that you fire off, and that was to kill the hearing damage. I can hear that they have been reinstated to a certain extent in relation to the batteries that are being shot off, but I think it is appropriate to ask the Minister to explain to us what it is, the rules look like and what they are doing, so we have some decent standards in relation to whether we behave as responsibly as I have the impression that the majority of people are doing, who are very aware of the dangers they expose others and themselves to. So I think that would be perfectly obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104830	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104831	I would just like to thank you for that and, of course, I will also be asked that question. There should then still be no doubt that I do not think we should have that fireworks because it has great consequences for many people. Although it is a tradition, I think the other counts a little more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104844	The rapporteur? There are no comments. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Orla Hav and goes on when we have been split by the rapporteur to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415104908	Thank you for that and thank the proposers for the proposal, and it was good that the proposer came out of the elevator, because that sounds rather dramatic. We recognise that fireworks are a balancing act, because on the one hand it is something that is festive and creates a lot of joy in a lot of people, and on the other hand there are many who are not so enthusiastic about it, including pets, and it is also something that causes eye damage, although we are at a historically low level in terms of eye damage. The Left believes, however, that the current rules reflect the fact that we have struck a fine balance in which we cannot lose the whole of December, as we could in the old days, but only a few days from the third Christmas Day and then until 1 January, and the vast majority of the fireworks are fired on New Year's Eve itself. But if someone has a little left over, a big family package where everything hasn't been fired off, shouldn't you be allowed to blow it off the next day in the morning? We think that's okay. I mean, we should also be careful not to wear too small shoes. So the proposal to limit it so that it will be over at 1 p.m. 3.00 New Year's Eve, we believe that we are too tight and that is why the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105035	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105038	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I noticed that the rapporteur said that it could be burdensome for pets. So I just have a question: what about the wild animals and perhaps some of the livestock? Does the rapporteur not think that this is also a burden on them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105052	No, the rapporteur believes that pets and wild animals have very different ears, so naturally what bothers a pet does not bother wild animals. No, of course it is the same, and I think the questioner is aware of that too. It would be very mysterious if I were to stand and claim that wild animals had a different hearing from pets. So, of course, we don't mean that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105118	Thank you. No further brief comments have been asked, and that is why we thank Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen. Then it's Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105137	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising an important issue. It wasn't that many weeks ago that we were here last. At that time, we were talking about a total ban on fireworks, against which the SF was opposed. This debate is often recurring as we approach New Year, and we forget about it again when we start a new year. And that's kind of a shame. It is important when we talk about fireworks damage; important when we talk about people with anxiety and ptsd, who are being maximum pressured for a period up to New Year. It is also an important debate when we talk about animals and pets. I myself have a small cotton dog, Alfred, who is almost equal to my children, I would say as we fill with medicine for a whole week up to New Year to dampen him. And then we'll talk. We think that the area's regulatory framework is too weak right now, and the SF would like to help tighten that up. The Danish People's Party points out some tightenings that SF can fully support when it comes to the launch period and the purchase period. Most of the damage is caused by rockets, and we could look over to our Scandinavian neighbors, who have banned the use of these rockets, and it has been with a very fine result, namely fewer fireworks damage. And we can look to Aalborg fireworks factory, which has already said that they are stopping the production of rockets.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105339	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105355	Thank you, President. As the motion for a resolution shows, there are many harmful consequences for animals when private individuals shoot at millions of kroner of fireworks around New Year. It also affects veterans and refugees with war trauma, and it has consequences for the environment and nature. That is why on several occasions in the Enhedslisten, both in the public debate and in debates here in the Parliamentary Chamber, we have had the opportunity to express our opinion on the fireworks issue. I recognise the argument put forward by the Minister that there is room for greater flexibility when the period for buying it is longer. At the same time, however, we also need to see that this means something in relation to the use of fireworks. So it spreads over a longer period of time when you can buy the fireworks for a longer period of time. I also believe that we need to take into account those who come home from war. also mentioned war veterans with post-traumatic stress, and animals and environment and climate. We need to find a better solution than the one we have today. And perhaps one could agree on a way to limit the use of fireworks, so that it does not have as much consequences as is the case with the way it is being used today. In fact, I think that the Danish People's Party is making a very good offer which I think should be a compromise on which we could agree in this Chamber. It may well be that today there are only a few days around New Year's where fireworks are allowed to be fired, but the period when fireworks can be bought is much longer, and unfortunately this also means in practice that rockets and other things are fired off outside the period. And I think everyone can confirm that. Some have also heard this in their private lives, and I am not only talking about the illegal cannon battles. It's a general problem, especially among young people. It's a separate problem, we have to do something about it, but it also applies to perfectly legal fireworks, where we see that families of young children are having fun firing off on the villa road or in the garden outside the legal period. And there could be a solution to limit the period during which fireworks can be fired, as the motion for a resolution proposes. In relation to environmental and animal ethical considerations, we could also look at whether we could improve the protection zones that are today or vice versa, whether we could actually say that in these zones we can fire fireworks. In this way, we could ensure that it was least harmful to the environment and animals and also to those people who have some reactions when fireworks are fired, then you also have an opportunity to plan it and move away from that place. So there are a great many opportunities for doing better in the future than we are doing today. And I look forward to the debate and discussion we will have in committee. I therefore believe that we can agree to do it a little better than we are doing now, and I think the resolution is a good idea of that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105701	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so that is why it is after cleaning • Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105716	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution banning the firing of fireworks by private individuals at different times from New Year's Eve and limiting the time allowed for the purchase and sale of fireworks. We have a great deal of sympathy for the arguments contained in the motion for a resolution. Fireworks frighten many animals from their senses, and they often get lasting but and damage. Therefore, it is important that we humans take good care of our animals and take into account the use of fireworks and do so responsibly. We must pay attention to birds and wild animals and avoid firing fireworks at hedges and trees and other places where animals are hiding, just as we must take good care of our pets. That is why we also tightened the legislation six years ago, in 2014. Here we limited the period during which fireworks had to be fired. A time limit was introduced which means that fireworks must be fired for six days from 27 December to 1 January, and the period of authorisation for firing fireworks seems quite reasonable to us as the law is today. Fireworks New Year's Eve is an important tradition for us Danes. New Year's is the time when traditions take place most with us people one day and one evening filled with traditions about everything from food, we eat to those we meet with, the Queen's New Year's speech, what we see on television, the year we shoot in, goodbye to the old and hello to the new. All of this is tradition bound on this day, and it is, moreover, much more so than in the past. We already have a good balance. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105851	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415105853	All that stuff about traditions and the Queen's New Year's speech and hello to the new and good-bye to the old. That is also why we say that we must still be allowed away, the possibility and the right to use New Year's fireworks during the period of 31 December, and when it is New Year: goodbye to the old, hello to the new year. I just have to ask the rapporteur: what argument is there for you to be able to buy this fireworks and keep it there, if that is what you have and that is often what you do not have, but you use it illegally for 12 days before you have to spend 12 days when you can use it for 6 days? Well, that's crazy. Now the former rapporteur just told you about Alfred? I can tell you about Rikke and many other dogs we've had at home that have simply been dying of fear. And I think that's what lies in many of us, namely that with the pets we have, we actually miss some of the New Year's Eve, because we know that those animals are sitting in the back corner down in the basement or out in the bathroom and are simply so scared plus those out in production plus those in nature. I think that consideration should be there, because it is not only New Year's Eve, it is also if you walk your little dog in the evenings those many days before, even where it is illegal, and that is another matter, but also the legal days.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110009	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110011	Well, there is no doubt that we must show consideration for each other and we must show consideration for our animals. However, the 6 days we believe are a reasonable limit to the way we have tightened the legislation six years ago. After all, it is six days, and I can only appeal to you to do so. But we must also be allowed to rejoice, and fireworks are also an expression of enthusiasm and a way of celebrating things. That is why we think that period is actually fairly well balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110044	Then it's Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110047	Thank you very much. I also wonder why you can't see that this is a problem. It may be because the voters of the Conservatives live where you have a long way to the neighbor or you can lock yourself in better or you can afford some other things. I have been approached by veterans who tell me how, when shot, they experience Afghanistan again or where they have been sent out. Dog owners and cat owners cannot go out in that time period, and it is very many days you have to give your animals dull medicines. Small children cannot fall asleep because they live close to each other in some areas. That's actually one of the reasons why we're doing this. There are so many reasons for this. People feel frightened by it, and the last time we saw that the day when they said that now has to be shot off, they started shooting at midnight, so the whole thing exploded, and it was as if it were a new New Year's Eve. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110155	Well, we have 365 days a year, and it's 6 days we can fire fireworks in. Perhaps this requires more information for the people who are vulnerable, so they know that it is a festive event and that it is not something they should be afraid of. I respect the fact that these people feel the way they do, but we also have a lot of Danes who enjoy fireworks, and that is why we think it is a good balance. Then I would say that we have a lot of voters who live very close, so I think that is a strange argument to use. That's what I have to say to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110229	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110232	Now it's just because I don't understand Conservatives' point of view, because elsewhere you pay tribute to veterans and animals and delicate souls. But when it comes to this, you say, "Well, six days they can live with the ptsd smoking six months backwards or the animals getting so sick they can't do anything." At the same time, we also know that all this fireworks has simply become too much. You use it for demonstrations and all sorts of other places. So there's an abuse. And if there's something Conservatives are talking about, it's abuse, but apparently not when it comes to fireworks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110304	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110307	I think the rapporteur is mixing it all up in a big light bulb. There's no doubt that if fireworks are abused, we're gonna have to hit it hard. There is no doubt about that. We cannot accept that at all, and certainly not against our police. Then there are so many other areas in which we go in and help the veterans and others vulnerable. Fireworks that night and those days we already think there's a good balance for 6 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110326	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. So, after a little despriting, the New Citizen's rapporteur. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110348	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we cannot support this resolution. We believe that the current balance in this is appropriate. We recognise that it can be a nuisance to dogs and other pets, but we also believe that there is a good balance in it. We must all take into account each other, people with pets must also take into account the fact that there are many people who do not have pets and who like guys fireworks, and taking into account the neighbor is part of living in a society, and we do not believe that it will help anything if you keep making these rules and laws from here on. We believe more that if your neighbor fires too much and you have a baby or a little dog that it bothers, you knock on the door and you say, "You know what, you don't want to take into consideration and something like that." Or, tell me when you do, because then I can be with my dog, or something else. We believe in civil society in that direction. The second part of the proposal is about when you can buy these things, where you want to limit the period, and we do not think there is any reason for that either. A lot of people take in, for example. summer house for Christmas and New Year, then they pack the car they shop, so they have everything with them, and leave, and then they have to worry that they can only buy the fireworks for a shorter period, that is, there will be more people in the store, more people to hire between Christmas and New Year, and they may need to get higher wages, that is, to raise the prices of fireworks. We see no reason at all for that. So we cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110507	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110535	I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for coming up with this bill. As you know, in the Free Greens, we want to ban all sales of fireworks to private individuals. But this is a step in the right direction. The reason why we want to have that ban is because it is scumbling in the environment and nature to fire fireworks and that there are some health damage associated with it, it may be hearing, it may be physical damage, it may be mental damage and it may be eye damage. In addition, we have animals in nature and our pets, which we have now heard are also affected by it, so they need to be medicated or consumed, what they are now going to use to get through it. And there are people moving to a hotel to get out of the sounds, because there are hotels that are simply completely soundproofed, so you can be there yourself if you have problems with it, but also with your animals if they have problems with it. After all, we did not get near being able to get a majority in order to get sales to private people banned. But this is a step in the right direction, and if you could supplement it with a ban on rockets and firing zones, so that there is a possibility of getting rid of fireworks, that would be right, really fine. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110703	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110707	Thank you. I am a little curious about the position of the Free Greens on these things, because they are said to be things that make noise that we have to limit in this way. What is the party's attitude towards the Distortion Festival or the Pride Festival, which for many days of loud music and rabble to far out into the night makes noises and bothers a lot of people? Should it also be banned because it is a nuisance to pets and people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110730	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110733	Now I would like to deal with the proposal we are dealing with here, and I do, and the other one I think is a different matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110738	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110741	No, it is not, because it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer herself who brings in the volume and decibels and everything else. Because if it was something else, I did not have to ask, but is it all things that have a decibel over something that must be banned and then must not be legal, or is it only things that exactly the Free Greens do not like that should be banned?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110755	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110758	When I talk about volume, it's the volume of fireworks, and it's fireworks I'm talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110804	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the proposer, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415110831	Thank you. Yeah, as has been mentioned... there's a little noise. President Yes, I think there will be a telephone call in the Parliamentary Chamber. Mrs Liselot Blixt... Mrs Liselott Blix... we're gonna have some quiet in the Chamber! Here you go to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard). That was just before the bell was ringed, I think. Yes, but as has been said, we have recently had a citizens' proposal to ban fireworks completely. The Danish People's Party does not agree with that at all. There have been some rapporteurs who have been up to say: well, we must also have a little joy, a little enthusiasm, a little cozy traditions. And that is where we are, when we have tabled this motion for a resolution. We think it is going too far to ban fireworks. We think there should be an opportunity to launch fireworks from New Year's Eve at 8:00 a.m. I can say that we have had a discussion on the possibility of making it more tight, that is to say, with a starting time up to the afternoon. However, during that discussion it emerged that there were many little boys and girls who thought it would be nice to come out in the morning and perhaps a little up the afternoon and blow off some fireworks with their parents when they couldn't be up at night. 24:00. So that's why we've said it at 9:00. 12.00 New Year's Eve and looking forward to 1 January at 12:00. Three o'clock. That is where we think it should be over. And then we'll have to take it with us. Because it doesn't change that we might as well recognize that the poor animals, whether they are in the stables, whether they are out in the wild, or whether they are our pets, are frightened. A lot of people feel that way. And then I think that the veterans, very, very sensible, have been brought into this. There are many veterans who have great, great traumas and who think it is awful when they hear the bangs that are in the New Years. So I think we should certainly take that into account. It will be there during this period, but it is something we have seen in the eyes that we have to go, because we have to have that tradition; it would be too boring without. That is also why I think it is quite unreasonable to talk about restrictions • I did not know that in the Social Democratic Party one was suddenly such a restriction fear, even though I might understand it somewhere. However, as I also said, I really hope that our restrictions will end on New Year's Eve 2021, so we should not have that in mind at all. I certainly hope we haven't. And with regard to the sale of fireworks, we believe that it should also be limited. We do not understand why fireworks should be kept for 12 days, because we know very well that a lot of people do not just have it, but use it completely. And it causes even greater anxiety, even greater problems, that you cannot take a quiet walk in the many days because people have the fireworks and they use it before it is actually legal to use it. We believe that the fireworks should be sold from 26 December to 31 December; that would be a reasonable period. And we actually think our business community could live with that. But I would like to speak on behalf of the animals, because I think that is really important. This is a problem, and I am sure that all of us who have dogs or cats know what nightmares these animals are in in fact through most of December, unfortunately, and several days into the new year. And as I said, it is not only the pets, but it is also in nature where you cannot even comfort the animals; it is in the stables; it is the production animals; it is everywhere where there are animals. And when the Danish People's Party wants to limit it on time just around New Year, it is because we might have had a hope of gaining a majority for it. Well, we thought, can't we land there? There is nothing to ban it completely, but could we not limit it? I am convinced that a great many parties, many rapporteurs, have been approached by many around the country. I have had a lot of inquiries from veterinary surgeons, I can say, who have been so involved in these problems, because of course the owners of the animals come to them towards Christmas and New Year to get something reassuring. It is not only pets, but, as I have said, other animals that I have spoken about, and also different personalities, i.e. veterans, which have been sent to war zones where many suffer from ptsd. So, if nothing else, stop it for them. I really think we owe them that. And then I must also mention something that has been brought into the debate a little, namely that by far most of the time I think it is up to 99%. We think that's fantastic. I mean, we have just once imported fireworks, which I certainly have to address to the many rapporteurs who have an environment very high on the agenda. Imagine what's hanging in the air. We all know it when we get out on 1 January that you can hardly breathe when you get into the air, because it is still gone by all that New Year's fireworks. So I think there are many options, many considerations and many conditions for us to implement this. Finally, of course, I would like to say that it was a pity about the Social Democracy, the Left and the Conservatives. That's too bad. However, I would like to thank the Socialist People's Party for wholeheartedly supporting this, although perhaps we would have gone further. But I am also in favour of taking one step at a time; that is a sensible thing. I guess that's how I heard Enhedslisten's rapporteur... that it will also be supported. And thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. At any rate, I am glad that there has been some understanding of our resolution, although of course I would have liked there to have been a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111424	There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111427	Thank you, and again thank the rapporteur for the authors of the proposal, which is a step in the right direction. I also shared the rapporteur's hope that there would be more who supported this proposal. Some people do that, but not enough to have a majority. In fact, I think that the rapporteur makes a fantastic lot of good arguments that we should not have the sale of fireworks to private people and that public firing sites could be used. So I'd like to hear a little more about how DF feels about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111502	We would like to go so far that a family with friends can sit on a New Year's Eve with children, including perhaps a little older children who are still up and can go out if they have a garden, can walk down the street with the neighbors, or what they do, and fire some fireworks off. But we will not go as far as a ban, as Mrs Susanne Zimmer proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111527	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111530	No, I guess I had a thought about that. Does the rapporteur think that if we now decided that fireworks could only be fired on one day or evening and that we could only sell them for a shorter period, that would result in a smaller sale? That was one question. The second is: can there be a risk that, if you have a shorter period to sell in, there will be larger stocks and that there will be those ugly explosions we have experienced over the years?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111603	No, I don't think so. I think it would give a small sale, and I would have no objection to that either. I wouldn't have any objection to the possibility of using a little more cozy fireworks that don't just say bang. You know that these packages you buy I don't remember what their names are doing, and I just think that's horrible. I find it hard to see the pleasure in it, I have to say. I have to admit that they would fall away, but I think that is one of those losses, so to speak, what we can easily live with. And I haven't even mentioned eye injuries, hand injuries and all the other injuries that are also part of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111634	Then I have the problem that Mr Seligman has asked for the floor. Thomas Jensen's place, but I think it must be Mr. Orla Hav, who has done so, I'd like to ask Mr. Orla Hav to take its place There is so much gender confusion at the moment, so you can never know). Here you go, sir. Orla Hav?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111647	Thank you. I have kept my voting place, which is not my speaking place. Excuse me, Chairman. I can hear that the rapporteur has a lot of reflections on what social democracy is doing. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. The most recent revision of the Fireworks Act I can hear has taken place in 2014, that is, at a time when there was a social democratic government, which then contributed to it. May I ask: what initiatives has the rapporteur's party taken during the periods when the rapporteur's party has had more influence on the government than we had? I should like to speculate about this, since it is an issue that is so important to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111739	After all, this is an important issue, but in fact I do not regard it at all, at all, as a politically-ideological issue. There are plenty of issues where it really is your party's ideology; it is about that, and it is clear that you are using all yours, I had almost said gunpowder to get through those things if there is a government for which you are a support party. But I really do not think this proposal is, and it is funny to see that it is actually the government's support parties that can now support this proposal from the Danish People's Party. I actually think that's quite nice to see for once. But I know that before I got into this, we had tabled the proposal many times. I still recall that the Parliament's first animal welfare rapporteur, Christian H. Hansen, was very concerned about this and made proposals in this regard several times, including under a bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111824	Sir. Orla Hav.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111828	I just note that the rapporteur's party is obviously most active on these issues when you have little chance of getting through with them and that you focus on everything else when you have the opportunity to influence them. I think it's kind of a bad way to act. When it comes to an important political issue, action should also be taken when it is possible to get through with it. But that must be up to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111857	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111900	At any rate, the latter is absolutely right, but I find it difficult to capture the intention in the question. Because different proposals are constantly being made. This has been a long time. Actually, it was something we started on before New Year's, but it was a really bad time to put it on. Now is the time, because if it were adopted now before the summer recess, there would be a good time to prepare for it. It does not, I can see, but thanks to the government's support parties, who really want to support it. I'm very glad to hear that, sir. Orla Hav be a little irritated about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111935	Then we thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415111949	The debate is open. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112019	Thank you for the floor. I welcome the opportunity to discuss the state of equality in Denmark and what it takes to promote it. Because although we have come a long way, we are far from achieving our goal. Today, Denmark has formal equality, but not yet real equality. Structural inequalities and injustices continue to exist in our societies, and we must, of course, put an end to them. In today's Denmark we have not yet achieved equal pay for equal work. Both our education and our labour market are still enormously gender-separated. Women remain under-represented in managements, boards, politics and research. Women's wealth is much smaller than men's, and men still take only about a tenth of the bar, although many would like to take more. Our goal is that everyone has the same opportunities in their education, work and family life regardless of gender. We must support the work of companies and organisations to promote women in management and boards. It must improve the career prospects of each woman, but also ensure that both sexes sit at the table when important decisions are taken. At the same time, we want to create a better framework for fathers to be able to take more leave with their children. Our gender should no longer affect our Another important equality struggle is about minority ethnic women who are still subject to social control. It is unacceptable that in today's Denmark we really have parallel societies where equality and fundamental freedoms are not respected and where individual freedom is restricted. We cannot and will not tolerate women being oppressed by slanderous imams, husbands, family members or others.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112156	I would just like to ask that the debate that is taking place in the Chamber be brought to a halt. I want you to calm down the debate that is going on down there; it's pretty loud and annoying from up here. Here you go, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112210	Equality must apply to everyone in Denmark, regardless of their background, culture or traditions. And everyone must take an active part in the community. We must combat social control and we must get more immigrant women into the labour market so that they can meet Danish standards and values, earn their own money and thus be freed. These women are facing a freedom struggle that we support all the way. A third and central challenge is sexual harassment and abuse, which unfortunately continues to take place across industries, jobs and relationships. All too often women are subjected to sexual harassment in their jobs and training. This applies in particular to women with short-term education, loose employment and low wages at the beginning of their working life. During the past year, the metoo wave has given a real boost to the conversation about sexism, harassment, abuse of power, violations and the need for a change of culture in all the corners of our society, and this must not go on talking. We must ensure that cases of sexual harassment are prevented, but also that they are discovered and have consequences when they occur. I know that the Minister has called the social partners for tripartite negotiations on the prevention and management of sexual harassment at work. I think that is the right way to go, so that we resolve the problem together. We want to support a change in culture, so that it will be safe and pleasant for people to go to school, to work, and where else to go. Everyone has the right and the right to do so. Equality requires structural change. It takes time, and it requires sustained efforts across different areas and sectors. This requires that different actors contribute to this both here in the Danish Parliament, the government, public authorities, the social partners, companies, educational institutions, organisations, families and the individual. Equality benefits us all and it is a shared responsibility. We in the Social Democratic Party will continue the fight for equality for which we have been fighting for over 100 years. It is a common fight for real equal opportunities and equal rights for all, and there is no doubt enough to address. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112358	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112403	I was curious when the rapporteur said here that there should be equality on the boards of directors and management and these things. Does this apply only to that part of society, or does it apply to waste disposal workers? Well, what the Social Democrats are aiming for is that there should be 50 per cent. of both sexes in all job functions in Denmark, or is it that there are equal opportunities to become what you want? There is, of course, a significant difference in relation to what you are aiming for, and also in relation to what tools you will then use to get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112434	That's right. I have no idea there's gonna be 50 percent. women who are to be refurbished workers or that there should be 50 per cent. men who are educators or something, but I clearly see that it is an advantage that there are more women in some men's industries and more men in some women's sectors. I think we should do a lot to get there so that there is more balance in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112453	Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112455	But can the rapporteur not point out specifically and specifically what are the limits? What are these things that, in our society, in our system by official means restrict people from doing these things? So there has to be something concrete that simply makes people unable to do this. Otherwise, it is people's free choice that means that they are pulling where they want to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112523	There can be a lot of different things. It is no secret that there have been stories from construction sites where some of the few women who have been in some of the subjects have had various unfortunate experiences of sexual harassment. I also believe that training needs to be better at doing something.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112536	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112538	Thank you. The rapporteur briefly mentions, at the beginning of the speech, the issue of earmarked maternity leave for men and the EU leave directive. Therefore, I would just like to hear the attitude of the Social Democratic Party on how we should have earmarked maternity in Denmark. Should it be equally distributed between parents, that is to say there should be as much earmarked maternity leave for men as there are for women?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112602	It will also form part of a dialogue with the social partners on how to resolve this. So, basically, we would like men to take more maternity leave, but exactly how that is actually gonna be, we have to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112611	Astrid Carøe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112615	It may well be that the Social Democrats had a political attitude as to what they want it to be. In other words, it also requires a change of law if we are to have a fair distribution, that is to say, as much earmarked maternity leave for men as for women. So I wondered whether the Social Democratic Party was interested in it or whether it was supposed to be entirely up to a trialogue. It therefore requires a change of law if it is to be quite equal advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112636	We clearly believe that this is something that needs to be negotiated. Well, that's what will be our position. So hopefully we can get closer to men taking much more maternity leave, because I agree that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112647	Then I have the small problem that it looks as if Jette Gottlieb has asked to speak, but I am quite sure that it is Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112704	I'm sorry. It's amazing how we're gonna switch identities here. Thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and thank you to the President for the flexibility of space. I would like to hear about the Social Democrats' position on the civil service reform of 1969, which has been documented recently in a new report by the Institute for Human Rights, placing women's dominated professions much lower than men's jobs in the public sector. It was in 1969 at a time when abortion was not free, when most women were considered to be some who had to go home, and if they went to work, it was to earn pocket money. That pay hierarchy still exists, and that is one of the really, really great reasons why, in our society as a whole, we have a very gender-based labour market and therefore also an unequal pay of between 12 and 14 per cent. between men and women in society overall. What do the Socialists think of the 1969 reform, and what do the Socialists think it has never been reviewed, even though it was actually promised at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112812	I am the equal opportunities rapporteur and I agree that there is a great deal of equality in it, but it will be under the labour market, and it will be our labour market rapporteur, Henrik Møller, who takes it and has taken the dialogue with the organisations. So I think that that is exactly what I would like to ask to be referred to my colleague Henrik Møller or to the Minister when he has the floor later.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112828	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112832	Honestly, I'm having a little trouble understanding that. Excuse me, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, we have an equal opportunities policy statement, and I ask one of the main reasons for the unequal pay that still exists in Denmark between men and women. There is therefore between 12 and 14 per cent difference in pay between men and women, and one of the main reasons for this, and this is also evident from the gender equality policy statement that we are discussing, as far as I know, is that we have a very gender-based labour market in, among other things. the public sector. The official reform is central here. Do we not have an equal opportunities policy attitude to this in the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112911	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112912	I understand that this is about equality, and I understand that this is a problem. That is also what I said, and I am glad that, unlike before, Pernille Skipper actually listens to what I say. But I'm gonna say it one more time. I also ask that there be respect in the Enhedslisten for the division of labour that we have in the Social Democratic Party when we deal with political proposals. It is the case that it is my colleague Henrik Møller who has taken the dialogue, because in here too we have rapporteurs who have both things. I have equality, and then we have one that is labour market rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415112936	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has signed up for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mrs Fatma Øktem from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415113007	Thank you. Today's a good day. It's not only because it's spring, the sun shines and we're starting to sneak out and open up, both as individuals we get a little out of the home • but also Denmark is opening up. It is also a good day because it is the second time in four months that we have this debate on equality. First, eight months went further than it had to be before we got the last year, and now it has only been less than four months. It can't be better, especially because it was my birthday and I was sick last time. My dear colleague Kristian Jensen was kind enough to make an excellent speech, so I was well covered, but I like to be here in these debates myself. Thank you to the Minister for the Year's Perspective and Action Plan. It is always exciting to read about the government's approach to equality in Denmark, which fortunately is well. On my way in here today I thought, and it struck me once to how happy I really am to be who I am and in Denmark. It is a country in which the individual's own dreams and abilities are usually the ones that set the limit. It is almost a year since Sofie Linde started a debate which, unfortunately, has been hidden away for many years. It is a debate about sexism and sexual abuse in the workplace and in society in general. The workplace is one of the performative arenas of our lives. Many of us spend most of the day at our workplace. Therefore, it is also crucial that the workplace is a nice place to be, that we thrive and can be ourselves, regardless of gender, culture, background or other individual characteristics. I feel like it's a little silly that I'm saying this. It should be a matter of course. It should be a matter of course in what Denmark I have just praised and said that I am so proud of. Unfortunately, however, it is not, and this is an area in which I have to say that it is not legislation that is lacking, because we have legislation. Sexual harassment is illegal; it is in the Equal Treatment Act, it is in the Working Conditions Act, it is in an EU resolution of 1990, and then it is in the EU Equal Treatment Directive of 2002. No, what this is about is that we behave. It's about equality, and it's about respect for each other. When we hear and when we see in the Minister's statement that there is still sexual harassment around, that is not good enough. Preventing and preventing sexual harassment is a management responsibility, but, as I said, it is basically about the individual. I think we have all been surprised by the scale, but when we look a little deeper into it, it is about the actions of individual people, and it is also important that we continue to have this debate. Because it's not just the Folketing, it's about. It's not just the parties it's about. It is not the media world that is all about. It's actually about this debate going all the way out and around all over Denmark in companies, big and small and with the debate we are really moving a lot too. So it must be natural for the employee who has not been able to say that he can go to his management and say that something is not right, because it is a legal debate and we continue to take it. That is why it must not stop, and that is why I again, repeatedly and again, thank Sofie Linde and all those who stood up. So the key lies with us Danes. Another place we can do better is on social media. They're getting a bigger and bigger role in our lives. When I got home from school as a child, I could drop the bag and go to my room. I didn't have a cell phone or social media, Facebook, Instagram or anything. If my girlfriends were to get hold of me, they'd either have to call the family phone, or they'd have to call the door. But I had a room where I was, like, shielded from the whole world. It's not like that today. We're at 24-7, and that's really good. We can retrieve information, and we can communicate with each other. But it's not just good. It is also a place where you sometimes sense that people have some aggression to go out, that is to say it has become such a dump where you can be allowed to pour out everything you've hidden inside you. It also turns out that if you first confront people, they could never say it face to face. They're grown people. It's people who can formulate themselves, you'd think, but what's going on? You could say that you couldn't do it. You can hang up or hide him. No, there are just some consequences. There is the fact that studies show that more and more people are failing to participate in debates where they really think it is exciting or where they have something they want to contribute. They fail, and that is especially true of girls and women. It also leads to another negative thing. Now I'm out talking to our local candidates around, and there's also a lot of people I'm calling for in politics. I have to say that it is mostly women, but there are also men who say that it is too much; I do not want to be public and I think it is too much. So every time you go out with something, it's hard, because there's so much dissipation around what you do. So we can get better at that, it is also an area. Although there are a lot of things that go very well, there is also an area that takes up a lot for me and for the Left. We are one of the most equal countries, and a great deal has happened since women entered the labour market in the 1950s and 1960s, and today you can both be man and woman, become director or prime minister, yes, today a wheelchair is not a restriction to speak from this platform. It should never have been. I'm glad. Background, ethnicity, gender, it shouldn't matter either. However, there is a development that allows us to see that we have a very gender-separated education system and a very gender-separated labour market. That is one of the things we would like to look at in the Left, and that is why we have a resolution to deal with in this Chamber on 12 May. We can see that UC SYD, nursing education, by making some small changes in the way they approach young people, has led more young men to apply to the training. We are not talking about quotas. This is one of the last things the Left will ever be in favour of, but we are talking about what we are telling about our education to young people. How do we put it forward? SYD has chosen to show the more technical aspects of nursing education, by showing the quick pages, by making it look like you're saving lives here. This is another way of promoting education, and it has meant that almost twice as many young men have applied. We in the Left believe that this is an area we should look at. Because it is a little worrying when we see that women applying to the so-called men's professions I hope that one day we will stop saying men's or women's professions, men's education and women's education, but that is what it looks like today. That is also important to look at. What's going on? We have 96 percent. nurses who are women; 97%. crèche teachers are women; 99 per cent. bricklayers, carpenters, plumbers, electricians are men, 76 percent. engineers are men. I don't think it has anything to do with gender. I also think that a woman can be a skilled craftsman. But how can we do better? We'd like to take a look at that. Something else is that on the same occasion we would also like to look at what we are doing to keep the boys. 30,500 men do not receive higher education after primary school. We think that is also a problem. So we look forward to negotiating the action that we believe can help to resolve a little in this area, i.e. with gender-based education and a gender-based labour market. I have a lot more to say, but I can see that time has passed. So I look forward to the debate now and to your questions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114010	Thank you to the rapporteur. This gave rise to a series of brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Astrid Carøe of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114016	Thank you for that and thank you for a fine speech, and it is wonderful that the rapporteur is not ill today so that we can have the debate. What I would like to ask the rapporteur, and which I think the rapporteur perhaps did not reach, because there is limited time, is this earmarked maternity leave for men, which we must very soon implement this directive from the European Union around. If it were up to the SF, we should have an equal distribution of the earmarked maternity leave between men and women. Today it is the case that women have earmarked maternity leave. Men only have 14 days and women have 14 weeks. That's why I'd like to hear what the Left thinks. Does the Left agree that we should have a balanced distribution so that men and women have equally earmarked maternity leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114055	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114059	This is a really, really important area for our entire debate on gender equality and the challenges that also exist. We have to admit that maternity contributes to the inequality that can also be and we have to listen. We are there that we would like more men to take maternity leave, but it is no secret that it is not the policy of the Left that we want to interfere in how the family does, because there is also a freedom to distribute it among themselves. We look forward to the debate. I already have an agreement with the Minister next week to discuss maternity leave. I look forward to that very much, because it is not simple. There are many things, and I think we should also remember to include others in this debate. We must bring the men along, because that will also be quite a change in culture. We're gonna have to take business with us. We must certainly bring the women with us. Remember, the figures show that women almost think they have the right to take long maternity leave. So we're gonna get the women on the field, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114208	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114212	That is a very good consideration, I think, and the reason I am asking is that it could be that the Left had changed its position on this, because we can say enough that we would like men to take more maternity leave. The Left often has this argument that it has to be up to the family itself in relation to freedom, so I would like to ask how the Left feels about that right now, as it is in Denmark today, it is actually the case that 14 weeks are earmarked for women, but not for men. It's not freedom either. Is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114238	That is, of course, for some very different reasons. So, one has chosen to put it there because it is now the woman who gives birth to the child, and then there is the period when the body can, like, be restored after a birth. So I think that's something completely different. Yes, it means a great deal to me and to the Left that there is maximum freedom when it comes to people's lives. We can see how it has evolved. I'd like to confess something here. This year our scheme will be 18 years old, so it has become of age, and it may be time for us to look at it. At any rate, we are forced to do so, and I would say that I think it is exciting, and we should have talked about how to implement the directive. This is a debate that I look forward to very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114327	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114332	This is one of the debates in which I wish we had a lot of brief comments, because I would also like to get into that maternity debate, particularly the fact that women still have such a particularly privileged role in that debate, which I can hardly contain. However, I would actually like to ask the Left about the problem of equality and the gender-based labour market, because the rapporteur himself also mentioned this. One of the reasons why we still have unequal pay is precisely the gender-based labour market, and we see it in the education system, as the rapporteur also mentioned. When we then look at the causes of the bias that is in, among other things. In fact, the level of pay between women's and men's occupations is not because women are less educated or have less responsibility or anything else. It is just because they were placed lower in the pay hierarchy back in 1969 with the civil servants' reform that is at least a large part of the reason, not all of it; I will admit that. What is the position of the Left that the reform of civil servants has never been revised, as was promised at the time? And does Left think you should do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114440	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114444	I think there are several reasons for the unequal pay. One is precisely the choice of education and the gender-based labour market, and the other is the working hours. Well, the questioner cannot escape the fact that men work more than women do. I fully recognise that there are challenges in the pay gap between men and women. There is absolutely no reason to deny that, but I am also convinced that it is the social partners who have to solve this, and not us politicians who have to do it from here. That will be my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114525	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114531	I actually have a lot of things to say to. But so, what has recently been proven black and white in this report by the Institute for Human Rights, which is called Women's Studies in Historical Cluster Force, is, of course, that it was so it is documented that this is the case. And I really would like to read a quote from a midwife who says about this very thing about the salary: You may feel completely ridiculous when you stand on your 12-hour shift and accept child number three and have not been able to give a good birth to anyone, because you must leave them as soon as the child is out, and run on to the next birth, and that what you get out of it is 55 DKK. per hour before tax in the supplement. Does the rapporteur not think it is time for us to review politically the reform that meant that this is the situation today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114633	I am so glad that we have the model that we have in Denmark and that we have had for over 100 years. There are many jealous looks being sent in our direction. We have a very strong trade union movement in Denmark. Of course I can understand what the midwife says there, and I will do everything I can to provide a better framework for the midwife at her place of work. But we are going in and tampering with something where it is not the culture that has been in terms of pay and whether it is we who have to say: who is worth what? There it is their union and within the various trade unions where you have to take this in the first place. However, I fully admit that there are some challenges in terms of wage differences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114719	The next question is Mrs. Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114724	Thanks for the speech. I would like to return to this question of maternity. The rapporteur says that there must be freedom, but, on the other hand, I also hear the rapporteur expressing a sensitivity to business, women, men and families on this issue, and that there is also a dialogue on it. I would like to follow up Mrs Astrid Carøe's question: does the Left have this debate in their parliamentary group? Are we going to give a political opinion on how to distribute the bar, or are we going to stand by the fact that the families must be free from it? Today, it is not for the families to be free to say:
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114809	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114814	Far along the way, families are free to do so. I have a very, very difficult time having to sit down at the dinner table and say: You must take so much maternity leave and you must take it at that time. But that being said, it is true. I mean, I'm following developments. We in the Left are doing so, and we are not afraid to say that we have become wiser. I hope there's no one there. Of course I am impressed when I hear that there are men who really want to take more maternity leave, but where it is either the mother of the child, the workplace or a culture or something else that stands in the way of the husband taking more maternity leave. I think that's too bad. So we have something we have to work with if it's the one that says that maternity is something that women take to be met at their workplace, or if you're afraid of losing your job when you return, if you take maternity leave. There are some challenges, and that is something that impresses me. I listen to it, and I can see that the figures are so high. I haven't heard of any men who have regretted having taken maternity leave. So, yes, we are very open to that debate and we are also taking it on a regular basis in the Left Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415114928	I think that is a refreshing and honest answer. And that, of course, is something we must all take care of, that is, that we can become wiser. I would actually like to move on to another ball street to something that the rapporteur also mentioned in his speech. This is about sexual harassment, which we have debated a great deal over the last year and which the rapporteur also rejects. We all do. But how are we gonna solve this? What I hear from the rapporteur is a change in culture, but is there anything we can do here to push that development? We would like to do so in the Radical Left. That is, for example, the case. keeping employers more responsible for the prevention of sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415115009	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415115013	After all, there is legislation, and the employer can use it at any time, or you can complain about it in the system. I don't think there's any employer who thinks it's nice. I want it to be part of the management responsibility. I agree with that. But it can't just be there. I think we have been surprised by the people we have heard about, the people we have seen and the stories we have heard, because it is quite often because of one-man acts. So yes, we want to do something, and some of what I think we can do from here is that we keep talking about it. This is very important. It's not that we've said it 10 times, and then it's done, because if it's going to every corner and every corner in Denmark, we have to keep talking about it, and we have to keep saying it. We do not need to get it in all the media every time there is something, but it is important that the debate remains topical so that the individual can also say more easily whether it is in a small company far, far away from Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415115122	Thank you to Mrs Fatma Øktem. No one else has signed up for short remarks. The next on the platform is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415115148	Thank you very much. So here we are again with a statement. I think we just had one, and I had hoped that someone else would take it for me, because I think I have plenty to do as Corona rapporteur. I think it is a repetition of all the speeches we have had when we talk about equality, and I am well and thoroughly tired of them. But, of course, women and men really need to have the same opportunities in education, family life and the labour market as the Minister writes. But is there real equality? I think we, as health rapporteurs, are missing something. After all, there are no men who become doctors, and those who then become doctors are women, and they must have part-time, and they must have maternity leave, and they must have all sorts of other things. So we need doctors all around the country. So I think we should go in and look at the training criteria and make sure that there are as many men who can become doctors, because then perhaps we can also get a medical practitioner on Lolland, also because women marry up, you say, puha, and then we have the same problem. Well, there's a lot of problems with that. So I think we should have a very big focus on it, because we all need to see a doctor once in a while. It's the same with male educators. Where are they? Well, well, then we'll have some male educators, but then there'll have to be glass in the window, because he may be a pedophile. We need to talk about them, just like we do when we talk about equality. But when we speak women's subjects, I would like to know that some people here today have asked about this with civil servants' salaries and so on. So there I think you could use a boost that the government could take care of. The Minister says in his statement that employment will be considered. So I do not understand why huge companies have been set up in the big cities for a very, very long time. Now, over the last few years, we have been trying to move public jobs into the province and around the country because we need it out there. When I think of equality and equality, I think: why should it be so difficult for someone who comes from Lolland to have the same opportunities as someone who grew up in Copenhagen? Nobody's talking about that either. I would like you to ask, when you look at the motorways around the country, what is it that allows us to give the same opportunities and that there is equality in terms of being able to do the same things? I think that we continue to talk about the fact that we need to have more women on board and that women must be able to do the same as men and that immigrants must do the same as all the others and so on. But we forget everything that actually matters, at least in our case. Where are the disabled when we talk about equality? When do we make sure that they come out and become part of the workplace? I am glad that it was Pia Kjærsgaard who, as chairman, arranged for a wheelchair to come up here. What do we do with all the mentally ill? Oh, we scold them when it's that they get sick and go home with stress, because they can't afford that, for crying out loud. Where the hell is equality? I'd like us to discuss that more. We may have said so much about the metoodle debate soon. We think it's out of control, and I've said that before. One does not distinguish between an ordinary flirtation and a funny remark and gross harassment and abuse. However, I welcome those visions, and I have also spoken to the Minister, because there are some good visions in relation to what you want to take up. As I said or as written, the Minister says that fathers will be taken up. We from the Danish People's Party think it is good to take up fathers so that they can have an equal approach to having the child after a divorce or something else. But all I read is the barrage that the European Union has now decided to share. This is going to affect the small ones, because there are also some families who want to plan for themselves, and they must be allowed to do so. Then we will end social control, and I think this is an important issue which has been neglected for many years. I myself have joined the association with Muslim women and women from many other religions and ages and occupations, and what else is called Women for Freedom. But much of what we were working for was that, if we are to get rid of social control, we also have to get rid of the scarf, which is a religious reminder that we are subject to social control. When I talked to some of the Muslim women, they could tell that when they moved up to the apartment, in this common home, they were fine, you could play on the playground, and they could talk to everyone, etc. But then several families moved in, and then one family began to say to the other family: Your daughter does not wear a scarf, why not? Or: Your daughter spoke to a boy on the playground, you don't uphold your religion etc. etc.? It actually gave you this social control over each other, and we have to do something about it. There are all the women in Denmark who are under control and how many of them may actually be sitting in our women's home today, etc., and let us have a talk about it. But as soon as it comes up, you're awfully afraid you're called a racist, and I don't know what. But we need to talk and talk loudly about what's happening, and there are a lot of these women who, fortunately, are both debating and out, and they are in all the different parties, and I am pleased about that. But we're gonna have to talk about it in here, too. So all in all, there are many things on which I can agree with the Minister. It was also such a good pile that we got here in relation to everything you want, and some of which we disagree with, and some of which we agree with, and then I think there are some places where we lack some focus on it. But it was supposed to be my speech from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415115833	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief remarks. The first is from Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415115838	Thank you. The rapporteur and I have often agreed that there is probably a lot that we do not agree on in this area, and I think that is quite fair. But I can hear that there is a place where we agree, and that is in this area in relation to the men. I would like to ask a question about that. I think this whole thing with the focus on men not feeling comfortable at their training or workplace, because they are being suspicious, for example. For being a pedophile, it's horrible. And I am glad, both that we took some initiatives in the previous government and that we are going to do it again now, because it is quite crazy. Another area is the right of men to their children, which can also be a major problem, and we therefore believe in SF that one of the things you can do is to get men to be more early in life because they are entitled to this maternity leave. I can hear that the rapporteur may not agree entirely, but could it not be imagined that it would ensure that men would actually have more association with the child and would thus be better placed in some of these matters if they were to divorce afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415115941	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415115942	I am very pleased that we agree on many things, but you may also come from different places. I would say that in my company, among my friends, family, etc., there have been no men who wanted to take more than the 14 days' maternity leave as there was. Nor would it take it alone with the child because they felt insecure with the child. It may go further, but time is not there now. Many of these men I know feel best about a child who, at the age of three, can go around saying gagagugu, but they don't know what to do with the smallest child, so they'd prefer to be exempt from that. So they won't take that maternity leave alone. They want to be there with the mother. I think that is something that is coming that more and more men want to, but here and now we just want to set aside a great many, and I think that is actually many of them for which I believe there is inequality. They're the ones who don't have the biggest education that works and have this profile that doesn't plan to go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120045	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120047	Well, we can see from studies that men actually want it to be here. A lot of men want more maternity leave. This may be difficult because you may find it difficult to get permission both from your employer and perhaps from your boyfriend, so perhaps it should be a hand-out. Could the rapporteur not imagine that one does not need a long education to want to be with one's child? I don't think so. I also do not understand, and perhaps the rapporteur can put a little word on it, why the rapporteur says that it is a pity for the child that the man should go alone with it. I think that is a little underestimating the role of fathers in relation to young children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120124	No, the rapporteur must now listen to what I am saying: the child will be a pity because it does not get so much time at home in the family, because it is not possible, because it is laid down that it should be the danger and if the danger does not take maternity leave, the child will have to be in the crèche. And I know from experience a lot of men who can't but no, I'm not saying it's a shame for the child to be alone at home with a man. That's not what I'm saying. I'm just saying, they won't take them because they don't know what to do. And I speak from experience. I know a lot of these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120158	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120201	There was just half a sentence that Mrs Liselott Blixt had said, to which I really think we should rewind. It was about the 1969 civil service reform, where Mrs Liselott Blixt said: I think we should have a look at that too. Will Mrs Liselott Blixt just elaborate on what the Danish People's Party thinks? After all, the reform was adopted by politicians in 1969. They placed the trades on the basis of what they thought was the most important thing, and all the women ended up at the bottom and the men at the top, and we can still see that having an effect today. And then they also said: we might have to look at that later. But that never happened. So does the Danish People's Party think that we should go in and look at the positions of the civil servant reform in the pay hierarchy politically? Was that the little sentence I heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120258	Here you go for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120304	I think that's very good. So, I agree that Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti often disagree in the debate on gender equality. I can, for example. I do not understand why Mrs Liselott Blixt can stand on the platform and say that we do not spend time talking about social control and equality. Well, I think we do a lot. Besides that may be a problem, we also spend an incredible amount of time on it. But I would like to commend the Danish People's Party for taking that stand and then invite that we form one of our sometimes very good bridges across the middle, and get something done about it and put pressure on, among other things. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120341	I have had a lot in common with Enhedslisten in the health and psychiatry debates. So as for this equality debate, there's some of what's going on in the same groove all the time, so it's going to be the same thing. I think it's really important that we look at these women's subjects. I have had conversations with both the Danish Nursing Council and many nurses who have just made clear to me what was there. Because there is nothing in the health debate about the old reform that is there. But I have also said that this is not something that a support party can withdraw on its own, because it is a great deal of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120417	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Fatma Øktem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120421	Thank you very much. There is a first time for almost everything, it is said, and I think this is the first time I have made a speech where I did not start with social control. I wanted to save it for the end, and then I talked too much, and I didn't get it. That is why I am very pleased that my good colleague Mrs Liselott Blixt has just mentioned social control. For me and for the Left, it's not excuse me. It's just a fight for equality; it's a fight for freedom, it's a fight for justice. So I would like to pay tribute to my colleague for mentioning that. That's some of what's on top. Because we should not be witnessing people being deprived of all rights. But I would like to hear something in this regard. Now the rapporteur mentioned that they must get rid of the scarf. Force it off, force it on me it's almost the same. I would now rather be able to give them the information that makes them take it off, because then I believe it is permanent. But what will the Danish People's Party, in addition to doing so, help to prevent social control?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120529	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120531	Well, I think you should talk to many of these women and talk about their experiences, about how they've gotten away with it. But we must also look at what it is that we can do, how we can secure something before we are sent home for re-education or get married in the home country, or what may be that makes you subject to this control, that is, what we can do. It is not just us politicians who need to come up with a whole lot of things; I believe that we need to talk to women all around, so that we do not just focus on the same women debaters, Muslim women who are constantly on, because there are quite a lot of different people who can be contacted and who have actually let go of social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120617	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120619	It is simply going to be a receipt for what Mrs Liselott Blixt says, because I fully agree that we have to go out and listen to those who are in it and then ask: what are the tools you are missing? And if I may add a little to that, I would say that I hope that we can do something together in that area, but then we will also be there when it is the case that we are asking them to break with what, for some, may have fatal consequences, that is to say that we are there. That is why I would like to thank the majority who have helped to ensure that the exercise of social control becomes a directly aggravating circumstance in the criminal code, which was a proposal which the Left had so thanked for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120700	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120701	Well, we can really thank each other. I thank the Left for putting forward a proposal that those who exercise social control should of course be punished. This is not going to happen in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120714	No one else has signed up for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur to be ready is Mrs Astrid Carøe of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415120728	Thank you. I used last year's debate, which we have already established four months ago, to puncture two widespread myths. The first is that we have equality in Denmark, and the second is that equality comes naturally. I hope and believe that most of us are beyond that: that autumn's many evidences of sexual harassment at work among many other things have made clear to even denies with the greatest blinds that we have a problem. Everyone must be able to see that equality has not been achieved. In addition, I am delighted to read in the statement that the government recognizes that equality does not come of itself either, because that myth has really lived and has grown up with changing ministers. But action is required, political initiatives. Both in the government and here in the Folketing, we have to roll up our sleeves and crunch the running shoes, because we have a marathon task ahead of us. Legislation is required if there is to be equal opportunities regardless of gender in Denmark. I hope that today we have buried those myths, and then let's move on. I have looked forward very much to debating perspectives and actions in the area of equality today, and there are really many good tactics in the government's perspective and action plan. I very much agree that we need to speed things up in order to create equality in education, in the labour market and within the four walls of the home; that equality is about freedom and rights, also for women under social control, which we owe it to help; that Denmark must continue its important focus and leadership in the field of gender equality, and especially at global level. When it comes to equal opportunities for lgbt+ people, the government shows an approach where you want to act and put in where the shoe prints. It's good to see. However, I have to say that I miss an indication that we will have a new and updated action plan in the area of lgbt+, because life must be easier for rainbow families. The road through the health care system must be less comfortable for people with a low level of health care, and people with a minority background need more support than they do today. But if there is one thing I think is more important than anything else, it is a reform of the maternity system. The earmarked maternity leave and the EU leave directive do not get much room in the statement, and I think that is a pity. The process of a new maternity-sharing bill will be extremely important in the year to come. We all know gradually that the single thing that is most important for equality and for the distribution of care in the family is maternity. That's the science bid. It's been a very, very long time. The sharing of maternity leave in Denmark is still glaringly biased. It is, although the Danish fathers would like to have more maternity leave if they could, but instead we have for decades reproduced gender stereotypes where mother cares for children and father makes career. We have missed female leadership talent and male father talent many times. This is despite the fact that our Nordic neighbours have given father maternity rights to his child. In Denmark, as you know, an EU directive was needed before we finally got the bag opened. I think that is really a pity, but that is what we now need in order to earmark maternity leave for men. In the next year we can then look forward to the work on implementing the Leaves Directive. We must succeed in this by August 2022, and I look forward to the discussions, because I believe that this will be one of the most important measures for equality in the labour market during this parliamentary term. It will be historic and something that our children and grandchildren will remember us for, but we must be careful. We must keep our tongues straight in our mouths, and we must remember the intentions of equality. The EU requires us to earmark nine weeks of maternity leave for each parent, and that sounds quite good on the surface, but it is not if it is implemented without a reform here in the Folketing. We could call it a minimum implementation. In that case, the new nine weeks of the European Union would be added to the already distorted maternity division that we have in Denmark, and then the imbalance will continue. It's headless if you ask me. The intention of the European Union is quite clear. There must be gender equality. We must promote women's participation in the labour market and we must have a fairer distribution of care obligations between men and women. None of these things will be achieved if you just add weeks to the already existing bias. In addition, such a solution will force women into the home for as long as 27 weeks if mother's new maternity weeks from the EU are added to existing ones. 27 weeks is a lot if you are self-employed, and this therefore puts women self-employed in a more difficult situation than male self-employed, and women entrepreneurs are therefore far too few already in Denmark. We should not allow ourselves to get rid of legal assessments that this cannot be done, that it is not possible to think again. We must not accept a possible tale that a reform of the Danish rules on maternity leave and an equitable distribution of the earmarked maternity leave under the Leaves Directive are not legally possible, because Finland has done so. They have blown up the entire Finnish maternity system on the occasion of the new EU directive and set in motion a large-scale reform of the country's maternity rules. The European Commission has stressed on several occasions that there is nothing wrong with doing so. Of course we can do the same here in Denmark. That is why it is so crucial that we show courage in the coming year when we have to implement the EU Leave Directive. I look forward to the discussions, and I hope that the government will use the open window that the European Union has given us wisely in a way that promotes equality rather than reproduces the inequality and the unequal sharing of maternity leave that we have today. I hope that the Danish Government is on the right side of the story here, because there are decades between us changing the rules on leave and that means everything to Danish equality. The question is whether Denmark should once again be left on the platform as the only Nordic country that does not succeed in a more equal sharing of maternity leave, while the other rushes away for the benefit of families, for the labour market and for the economy. That is why I look forward to implementing the Leaves Directive with the government. I look forward to doing so in a wise way that promotes equality and a way that gives as much earmarked maternity to father as there is to mother. It is my great hope that the government with us in the SF will help ensure more equality through equal maternity sharing. Here I think I will end my speech because although there are a great many other important agendas: gender equality, social control, which I mentioned very briefly, men's equality, the proper implementation of the maternity directive in the eyes of the SF is the most important thing we will be doing next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121423	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief remarks. The first one is for Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121428	Thank you for a very good speech, which I agree with from one end to the next, and that is wonderful. I also very much agree with the emphasis on the maternity and maternity leave directive; it is one of the major sources of gender inequality in Denmark, and that is also where we find a large part of the unequal pay. Well, women lose about 10%. per child they give birth to, in the income of life, that is, above pay, promotion and pension. For men, it's 0 percent. And that says a lot about how much maternity leave really means. I also very much agree that it means a lot to men that there is a better cultural acceptance that one can of course be there for one's children, even in the first few months it is regardless of one's gender. However, I would also like to hear from the SF about the second part of unequal pay, which is very much about the gender-separated labour market. For what is also happening right now, and which is historic, is a rise in the equal pay movement, among other things. on the reform of the civil service. What is SF's position on that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121534	It is a really important issue, as I said, that we could also talk a great deal about it, and I am sure that the rapporteur will do so in a moment. I also very much agree with that is a huge problem, i.e. that the unequal pay between classical women's and classical men's occupations is very problematic, both because we do not recognise those women who have those jobs because they have to be paid very high wages and because we lose good and talented people compared to these jobs. So we'd definitely like to take a look at how to ensure better equal pay, even when we're looking at this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121616	Thank you. Fortunately, I am not particularly surprised that the SF has that position. What is important, I think, is that we will not mix this up with a discussion on the Danish model, because neither of our parties believe that we should move away from the Danish model where the social partners agree on wages and working conditions. However, it is true that the 1969 civil servants' reform made some political decisions there, which form part of the collective bargaining system and which these women's unions cannot get out of. Doesn't SF also agree that the poor pay in those subjects may also be one of the reasons why it is difficult to recruit men for example. The midwife, nurse and pedagogic subjects?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121657	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121659	I think it is extremely important that we separate these things and say that we can do something for more equal pay, but we should not interfere in collective bargaining. I think that is really important. And yes, I think we're gonna miss really good people because the pay isn't high enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121718	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Fatma Øktem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121723	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The SF has today placed a great deal of emphasis on the maternity system and the changes that might be needed in that area. There is something in SF's rhetoric that simply gets me out of the chair, also literally, and it is that SF makes it sound as if the women are a little victim in this, now they are forced to take 26 weeks. Will the SF not admit that women are also the ones who take the greater part of the barshell and help create the inequality where we can see in the numbers that are that there are some men who say: it is the mother who will not give me the barshell? When will SF turn that rhetoric a little, so we also make women responsible for helping to solve this so that they are not the victims that I sense a little SF is trying to make them: that this evil, evil system makes women victims who have to take 90 percent. Of the barsle? This is a rather mistaken way of exhibiting it, I think, but is it not true, Mrs Carøe, that women also have a responsibility in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121836	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121837	Thank you. I think that the rapporteur may have missed parts of my speech, because I mentioned a lot of things that could have consequences if we end up just putting these nine weeks on top of those already earmarked weeks. One of them is that women get 27 weeks of earmarked maternity leave, and that would mean that if you divide the bar quite equally, the men have to take everything that is voluntary for it to be, and I think that is wrong, I hope the Left, as a liberal party, too. But yes, there are also men who say it's hard to get to take this maternity leave because there are some women who think it's theirs, and that's where I'll say: I think we have a responsibility from in here. I think it is such a pity that we have not had fair earmarked maternity for both men and women long before, that is, SF has meant this for years, for more than 15 years or something like that, I think, and I think it is so unfortunate that it has not succeeded. That is why I regret that we have not been able to do it ourselves, but now the European Union is coming in return, and then we just have to ensure that this directive is properly implemented so that we do not give women 27 weeks of earmarked maternity leave. I think that would be crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121940	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415121942	Thank you very much. There is still a great deal of difference between how we see it, because I certainly do not think it is 27 weeks of compulsion. No, women are not forced to do anything. And we want to give families as much freedom as possible. Actually, you can't. No one is forced to. You can also divide it right between you. So this is not something that we in the state need to cut just like that. I also think that people should take that responsibility on their own. Having said that, social control was mentioned. I would like to ask very briefly whether SF has anything in the pipeline. For there was a period when SF was very, very interested in social control and talked a lot about it. I think it's a little quiet. Is there any action that the SF will launch in order to put an end to social control?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415122032	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415122033	Thank you. I only have 30 seconds, and I would like to comment on the barshell, but let us take it with social control instead. So, on 8 March, we in the SF were out with a proposal that if you have been subjected to social control, have gone to a women's crisis centre, have been on a re-educational journey and have returned, it should automatically grant a residence permit. Today, if you leave your husband because you are a family member, you run the risk of being deprived of your residence permit. So it's been a little more than a month since we last had a call, Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415122107	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415122111	Thank you. I can't believe we're where we're talking about having a family. I think that's quite grotesque. And I also think it is quite grotesque that families should now be forced away from free elections. But I guess we'll never agree on that. It's just that most of the Danish families out there want to be allowed to choose for themselves. I recognise that companies need to get started making arrangements, but everything else equal must be free choice. When the SF and the rapporteur are so concerned that everything has to be 50-50 before the party apparently does not stop I would like to ask about this about negative social control, because there I think we are very much in agreement that we should have broken with it. And it is also an excellent initiative by the government, but where is SF in relation to implementing 37 hours of employment in that area? Because we know that employment is one of the things that can so break with negative social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415122215	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415122217	It is so strange when you talk about maternity leave that it is not coercive if you have women to have earmarked maternity leave either if it is 14 weeks as it is today, or 27 weeks as it is, if you implement the directive by just adding weeks upstairs but as soon as you want to earmark for men, it is coercive; then it is not voluntary in the family. It's only if you force the women. And I don't think it's forced to start a family. I can't wait to be on maternity leave at some point. But I do hope we make some rules that make my girlfriend and I share the wolf straight. The other thing would be crazy. Compared to this social control thing, it's a focus we have. And I fully agree that this work is important to get out, but we also need to be aware of what kind of people we are dealing with. So we have to do it in a clever way when someone may have fled from war and destruction or other forms of destruction. Of course, it must also be taken into account. However, I fully agree that it is really important to get out and be with other people and see what else you can and, moreover, get more information about what is offered out there if you are subjected to social control or domestic violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415122321	Anything else? No, okay. There are no more brief comments and we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Samira Nawa of the Radical Left, who is allowed to stay clear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415122343	Thank you, President. I am sure that we are, after all, an assembly of people, politicians who are very fond of meeting with citizens and exchanging words, and we have all been prevented from doing so over the last year because of corona. I have had the pleasure of talking to many people, and one of the things that is often brought up is the area of equality. I also get some questions about it, and the questions that I run into when I talk to, yes, most recently it was an older master, is why you young women are so extreme, why you cannot just be happy with everything you have got, everything that has been achieved, why you must keep demanding and demanding and demanding. It is with reference to my commitment to the debate on equality in general, but also with reference to my commitment to the debate on methodology and, in particular, more women in management positions. When you get those questions asked, you can choose whether you just want to pull a little on your shoulders according to the principle, if you're right, I'll be at peace, or you can also try to make the conversation. I have actually tried both, and what is most cozy and most helpful is actually to try to build that bridge and take the conversation and answer the question with perhaps a review of the story. Because it is actually extreme to think that you want equality, that you want the same rights, the same opportunities, regardless of gender, background, sexuality, disability, etc.? Seldom does anyone agree to that. And that's what this is all about. It is really about democracy in its basic essence. Equality is, when we ensure equal opportunities for all, that, whether you are a man or a woman, you can be elected to the Folketing, that, whether you are a man or a woman, you can live out your full potential in the labour market, in the education system. That is equality, and that is also what democracy is based on. I think you can remind yourself of that, and that is also what I remind myself and my interlocutor that this equality is not much more than 100 years old. Because even though we got our constitution a long time ago, it was only with the Basic Law of 1915 that we actually got something that started to look like equality. The woman who was the first on the platform was Elna Munch. She was a radical and a feminist defender. I do not think that was necessarily a preface she wanted to put on herself, but there are just some women who must take the lead, and it has to be said that Elna Munch was one of those who so insisted that women should also have the right to vote and to vote. It was a view that was ridiculed and rude at that time, but which is also a view that I think we can all agree here today is quite natural, because of course women must also be able to have the right to vote and to vote. That then brings me back to this issue of why young women are actually so extreme, that is to say the question that I am being asked. We are not really, and it is also the case that, when I speak, I often agree with the questioner who asks me that question. It's just democracy, it's just equal rights, it's really just freedoms that we continue to fight for. What, on the other hand, can bother me a little in the whole process of equality and many of the battles that we can agree to take are when it ends up turning into slow and footwork. It often ends up in process. When I look at the statement here, there are many good things that I would like to sign for. Mostly there are some problems that are being pointed out. There is enough to address, and several rapporteurs have mentioned it. Most recently, the SF rapporteur is in favour of maternity, and we in the Radical Left warmly support this, but why should the process take so long? Salary, equal pay, is also a issue, a topic for debate, why can we not just get these gender-based pay statistics so that we can have transparency about how much we earn? The gender-separated labour market has also been brought up, and this comes from gender-separated educational choices, and we also have to act more quickly here and see how it can be managed so that, as a young person, we can live out our full potential and not be guided by standards and culture. Sexual harassment has been the focus of attention. There are some areas where we can legislate right away, if we want to. The same applies to social control, violence against women, the rights of LGBT+ people, which is enough to address. Sometimes I think that there is so much for a Minister for Gender Equality to address that I might wish for an independent Ministry of Gender Equality, and that is not because I doubt the commitment of the Minister for Gender Equality in this area, but he is also Minister for Employment, an area that is so important and which is also highlighted and where I know the government has a lot of blood on its teeth to change something. So it is just a small wish from here, since there is so much on the plate, since there are so many areas of equality that we can also prioritise it so that we can get work done more quickly. That's the last thing I wanted to say. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415123024	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for short remarks, so we will ask the next rapporteur ■ and it is Mrs Pernille Skipper to come up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415123046	Thank you very much for the debate, including for everyone who has been up here so far. As several have remarked, it is only 4 months since we had the annual equality report last, and when I generally have the view that you cannot get too many of them, I am probably slightly opposed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It may be that my joy in being here can compensate for the rapporteur's tiredness. I would basically say that we are still away in a place where there is a great deal of need for action in the area of equality, but I am also an equal opportunities optimist to a degree that I have certainly not been for many years. In recent years, a great many good initiatives in the area of equality have been taken politically from here, many of which are also reflected in the government's statement on the perspective and action plan. Much of that I recognize as something that the Enhedslisten, SF and the Radicals have also carried to the government and which has been welcomed. In fact, I think it is worth mentioning that during this period of government we have taken several historic steps: a law of consent in the field of rape is a huge equality victory. It is a huge equality victory, which means that young people start talking to each other about what consent is and how to behave towards each other, in a completely different way than you have done for a very, very long time and certainly not as you did when I was a teenager. There is the maternity fund for self-employed people, which the SF rapporteur also mentioned. In the police agreement, we have scaled up the effort and created special units to look at digital violations. We have ensured in the last financial agreement that aid lawyers are brought to victims of sex crimes and that they have better access to support and assistance through the judicial system. We have secured money for the city mothers who are doing equal opportunities policy work on the floor for some of the most vulnerable women in this society. We need to set up a crisis centre for double-minorities, that is to say, people who are bothlgbtq people and at the same time have a religious or ethnic minority background which causes them to experience enormous double-pressure. It is also an effort for a small group, but a fantastically important victory. And the list may be longer; I do not have time to go into that at all, because we also need to move on to the things we need to do better. But I actually think it's really, really important. In general, equality is much clearer on the lightboard of the social debate than it has for many years. And 8 March, here recently, was one of many 8 March-days I have had as equal opportunities rapporteur in the Folketing, and this year was probably the first time that there was not a single journalist who asked me if we had anything to fight for any longer. In the years before that, when I was elected in favour of these 9-10 years ago, what you had to talk about March 8 was whether there was an equal opportunities problem: is there anything at all, and haven't you triumphed to hell... Uh, I don't know if I can say that. No, I can't. I'm sorry. Well, then the phrase doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415123411	You can quote it as a quote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415123414	Well, it doesn't matter. You know, I think everybody caught it anyway. No one asked about it anymore, because we have now actually come to a place where there is suddenly a broad recognition that we have equality problems that require some action from all of us and that require cultural and structural changes, and it is surely the greatest victory of all of them that we stand in a place where we can drive equality forward, and we can improve not only the rights on paper, but also the opportunities in the real world of gender and ethnic and sexual minorities, etc. in our society. There is no doubt that part of the success that one might say has driven the debate on equality is driven by a global metoo movement of women who start telling stories and stories about what they are experiencing, how many of us may have gone and thought that it was just something we had to live with, and that it was something one had to accept, and suddenly it has become something one says out loud. There are many more women who talk about it, most recently about insecurity in nightlife and going home alone and being afraid of it. However, not only are there many more women talking, but there are also many more men listening, and that is also one of the reasons why we have come this far, and that is absolutely a prerequisite not only for the discussion but also for action. So I'm very hopeful for the future. I believe that one of the fundamental problems that we still have in terms of equality and which we need to recognise together is that there is also a huge economic battle in relation to gender inequality and minorities in our society. One of the things that we can see is highly problematic is, for example, when women who are subjected to negative social control or domestic violence and who turn to shelters have no economic independence. If the man earns the money, they are not entitled to cash benefits because we have what is called spouse dependency in our cash benefits system. This means that women turn to centres of crisis when they are victims of violence and are affected by negative social control, but, for example, they do. do not have the money to pay for the fee to be paid when applying for divorce. It is absurd, and then we can stand here and talk about social control very many times, but we all know that if you are to be independent of a man and you have to be able to leave him if he strikes or exercises social control, then you have to have your own money and the lack of freedom we have to talk more about. That is also why unequal pay and unequal maternity leave are so large and important structural discussions to take. Because it is not just about some sense of justice, but it is also about ensuring that we have real opportunities to live free and equal lives, make our own choices. The greatest successes of equality policy were when women entered the labour market and were given the chance to leave the men who, in the generations before us, did not treat women properly. It is freedom, and it is also about money. That is also why what I have asked many of the rapporteurs about in this debate so far has been equal pay, and that is also what I shall be spending the last few minutes of my speech on, because the problem of equal pay is still a problem in Denmark. We are one of the most equal countries in the world, we often say. I guess we're number one. 29 in the ranking, and the four to five top seats are occupied by other Nordic countries. We should be lying up there with them. I think they are showing the way, and there are many good suggestions for what we can do, but we are a very equal country. Yet we just have a pay difference of 12-14 per cent. between men and women in general in our society. A lot of it is based on maternity leave, but a lot of it is also based on this gender-separated labour market, which we continue to reproduce, where women get the caring work, and men have everything else, especially in the private sector, and then the two sectors or the two kinds of work are just not valued the same. And that's not because women have lower education than men. In fact, we see the opposite trend or they have less responsibility. Well, nurses stand with life between their hands every single day, and the sosu are with our older citizens who have built this society for us every single day, and it's their cornerstone in life. These are insanely important jobs for our social infrastructure, and yet they are paid lower than in so-called men's jobs with a corresponding length of training. Well, a teacher has the same length of education as a builder. But it is not valued the same, and one of the reasons we find in the civil service reform, and now we come back to what is my hobby-horse at the moment: the civil service reform of 1969, where there were some politicians, not parties to agreements, but politicians in here, and decided that women's work wasn't worth as much as men's work, that police officers were more important and had to be paid better than nurses, and despite all the progress we have made in the field of equality, the hierarchy still stands. Actually, the midwives have been pulled down, that's the funny thing about it, so it's just gotten worse for them. I believe that this is a politically established problem, politically created, and it is also a political responsibility to do something about it, and many years of collective bargaining have just proved that this cannot be done in the collective bargaining process. For over and over again they have been on strike in these women's domination professions, they have shouted, they have scolded, they have demanded equal pay, and again and again they have got nothing out of it. Why? Because there is no one who thinks that the policeman should go down in salary in order for the nurse to be paid, and I think that this is one of the causes of the many recruitment problems into the women's professions, that is, because it is so poorly paid, it is less valued socially and in terms of pay. Of course, it is also harder to attract, for example. A man. I think it is time for us to do away with this idea that caring in the public sector is something we need to have some special calling for women to be in, and I think it is time for us to start paying it properly, and I think it is time for us to take responsibility for politically addressing the equal pay problem that has also been created politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124058	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124103	Thank you to the rapporteur. With regard to equal pay, I just think that what is important is that we have a proper look at the figures and used them in the way that analyses and studies properly reflect. There's 11 percent difference, but when you go in and look at this, what is it really about? It is about the fact that even if you are employed in the same job, you can have different working hours; there can be different ways of working; two office workers do not necessarily have the same duties, etc. It is the case that when you scroll down and clean the figures that some people actually work longer than others and that some work nights and some by day etc., we actually get down to the difference is only 2.3 per cent. Or something like that. It is at least quite low, and I think that is just important to have included in this debate. So the rapporteur very briefly mentions the problem of freeing himself from men and of negative social control, and I would just like to hear here: does the rapporteur not agree that 37 hours of employment per week for those women who are not allowed to have a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124220	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124222	I very much agree that we need to use the figures for unequal pay correctly. I also think it is wrong to talk about unequal pay only as the difference that exists in the individual workplace. There is also unequal pay. There are, among other things. between male and female nurses. This is explained by the fact that there is a tendency to promote male nurses more than women, and there is a family structure and everything else behind it. And if you compare the length of training, which is the most objective parameter, you can see among other things. In the public sector, women's occupations are placed lower in the pay hierarchy than men's occupations with a corresponding length of training. And that's some of it, among other things. The Institute of Human Rights, like VIVE, has also documented that when we have swapped which sex dominates a profession, the more women entering a profession, the more there is a tendency for wages to be stumped or even pulled down. It should be borne in mind that it is not only in the individual workplace that it is also in the gender-based labour market that the pay gap is reversed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124340	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124343	As far as VIVE is concerned, they are precisely proving that the pay gap is going down as much as 2.3 per cent. Well, that's what it says in black and white. However, the rapporteur did not respond to it by saying that more immigrant women should be in employment and out of negative social control and that this is the way forward. So what is the Enhedslisten and the rapporteur's position that we should implement the 37-hour employment requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124411	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124412	I'm sorry. It was simply because I didn't have time to answer it; it wasn't because I didn't want it. So, of course, being self-employed and having a job is absolutely crucial to gender equality. I used most of my speech to make that clear. And, of course, it is also a problem if in some minority ethnic environments in particular there is a tendency for women not to get jobs. But it's a myth that it's because they don't want to. But the mother-in-laws, whom I also spoke about, are among other things. one of the initiatives that we have taken to also support to bring more women into the labour market. But I do not believe that people should be forced to do so by seeking 20-30 hours of underpaid work. And I would just like to stress that, if you are going to have cash assistance, you already have a duty to be available for the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124507	There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124509	Thank you. I simply have to ask the rapporteur about the issue of equal pay. It's true that there's this VIVE report that shows that there's only 2% now. of the odd pay of 14-17 per cent that we cannot explain. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. The rapporteur says that just because you can explain a pay difference, does it make it so reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124536	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124536-2	That's one of those wonderful good questions that kind of underpins my own argument. But yes, exactly. The unexplained pay gap is 2%, and we have a very large share of the pay gap, which we can then explain. But that does not mean that it is good, for example, that we have a gender-separated labour market that is responsible for a huge part of it. That's the explanation. But that does not mean that we should not do anything about it. The labour law is unevenly distributed and it explains a large part of it, but that certainly does not mean that we should not do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124604	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124607	We have been able to explain even more here in the latest report, which has been much criticised. We have gone from 4-7 per cent, which is inexplicable, down to 2%, because we are now also explaining unequal pay by how many women there are in the department. So you explain gender with gender. So does the rapporteur agree that perhaps there are also some places where you can criticise this way of setting things up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124631	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124632	I totally agree. If we have traditionally used the concept of equality in the debate on the unexplained pay gap, then it is because it is where we suspect that it is really the gender that decides it. Now we can see from the latest VIVE report that we can use it as part of the explanation and to make the number even smaller, but that is exactly the problem that we should try to document. So it's a report that, besides giving us a lot of knowledge, has an argument that bites itself a little bit in its own tail. It's absolutely for feinschmeckers and geeks, and of course we have to get that under control in here. No doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124707	I would like to make a brief comment. It's from Mrs Fatma Øktem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124711	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I just heard that the rapporteur called it to force women with minority backgrounds when it is the case that we demand that they be 37 hours in employment. Why is it that the rapporteur calls it coercive and unacceptable coercion when there is everything else, that is, when we have to force companies to set targets; when we have to force men to take maternity leave? Because then it is not coercion in the area of equality. But when we're gonna help these women become self-employed, earn their own money and get some freedom, it's awful coercion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124759	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124802	I just want to correct a misunderstanding in the first place. I have not proposed forcing any men to take maternity leave. I suggest that we also stop forcing women to take maternity leave, which Mrs Fatma Øktem previously advocated, namely that this should continue for some biological reason. I just think that their rights should be completely equal, that is, even. Whether it's zero maternity leave or whether it's 40 years' leave they just have to be equal. That is my appeal to the maternity debate. I believe that what is problematic is that the Left and, unfortunately, also the Socialists have an idea that there are a lot of people sitting on cash benefits who are perfectly capable of working but just do not bother. And that's bullshit. You have to be available for the labour market. If you're offered a job and you say no, you're gonna get your cash benefits taken away. It is probably freedom to choose it too, if you do not want any cash aid, just to stay a little in the rapporteur's own rhetoric.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124902	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124903	I can almost be tempted to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will not go around with me and talk to some of those women. We could ask the City of Copenhagen. When they come in and actually want to work, they have some men who prevent them from doing so, or they have some sons. This is something the public authorities know. So does the rapporteur not impress him at all? And isn't it somewhere to keep those women, especially if you are in favour of raising benefits instead of helping them forward, that is, those who are actually forced not to be part of the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124944	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415124945	The problem is basically that you do not get more people into work by making them poor. And the men that Mrs Fatma Øktem is talking about are not going to say, it is quite okay that their wives go to work, because the cash benefits are being put down. I agree: everyone has to work for their cash benefits. In other words, if you have to be available for the labour market, if you want to do so, do a job for those women and pay them a real salary, not an underpaid cash benefit. If it is work, you also have to be paid accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125019	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125022	Thank you. The rapporteur said that it was the impression, as I understood it, that there were also a lot of people in the Left and the Social Democrats who said that there were a whole lot of people who did not want to work. Where did the rapporteur come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125039	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125040	Excuse me, sir, but I think that sir... Lars Aslan Rasmussen said earlier that he would like to forward the question of equal pay to the employment rapporteur in his own party and would not respond to equal pay issues in a discussion on the equality statement. And now, sir... Mrs Lars Aslan Rasmussen (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Lars Rasmussen on her report. I do not quite know whether I feel it is entirely fair, but I say that if you have the idea that people stand up and find a job by pushing them on your wallet, then I suppose you also assume that some people are on cash aid because they do not want to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125120	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125123	Out of respect for my employment rapporteur in the Social Democratic Party, I did not mention it. But the rapporteur himself says that it is the impression that the Social Democrats have the impression that there are a lot of unemployed people who do not want to work. So I ask: who has said that in the Socialist Group? Where does the rapporteur get that impression? Surely it cannot only be from something that the rapporteur has heard quite a short time ago. I hope the rapporteur will withdraw that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125144	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125150	Thank you. I think that in the minute I have at my disposal it is very, very difficult for me to go through the social democrats' early and flexible job reform, which made sick people, people with disabilities, poor in an attempt to push them into the labour market, that is, with reduced benefits for young people, which is about pushing them into the labour market, but which has led to very many young homeless people. And unfortunately, I could keep on with that list. I believe that in the policy followed there is a clear indication that there are at least some groups on which the Socialists have the view, namely that it is probably just a question of making them so poor that it is too hard, because then they will find a job. So I think that the Socialists themselves are in charge of the argument here. It's not something I need to find a quote to mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125233	There is another brief comment from Mrs Maja Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125236	Thank you. The rapporteur has a lot of focus on what pay should be for women to get into these jobs. Does the rapporteur recognise the advantages of getting out of the home at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125254	Of course. I've answered that four times. My speech was about economic freedom being a prerequisite for equality. This is what historically equal women do, and getting a job and supporting themselves is also a prerequisite for leaving a man. Sometimes people cannot have a job, but must be on cash benefits or on cash benefits, and that is also why I object that you can be so concerned with those people, but still have not done anything about the spouse dependency that means that when a woman, for example, is a woman. If you go to a shelter because she is beaten at home, your spouse's dependency still applies. Then she still can't get paid out of her own cash, and then she has nothing to stand on in her future life. The question is whether some people are not going to do something about it soon or whether we should just keep talking about it and use whip instead of helping some of the women who are actually in these terrible, terrible situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125349	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125352	Thank you. There is again a lot of focus on economic freedom, and it is also very important, but there is also a freedom in getting into a job, meeting other Danes, being further integrated into society and forming networks and relationships. So I would like to ask once again: does the rapporteur also recognise that this is very important?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125416	Well, it's really nice to go to work, and fortunately most people think so too. If they have a good job, they are happy about it, and I hope everyone has good colleagues. One must be decent with one another and then give it a whole lot, but for women affected by violence or subjected to negative social control, who, as Mrs Fatma Øktem said, must not work for their men, it is very much a question of having a basic economic independence so that they are able to make their own decisions for their own lives. And that is also one of the things you are helping to destroy when those women are being pushed on the wallet of the cash assistance system that exists right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125452	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Birgitte Bergman of the Conservative People's Party, who stays ready, I see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415125505	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. It has not been so long since we have been standing here last time, so I am sorry if much of mine, too, is going to be a bit of a repeat. It's not like so many things have moved in four months. I think that the starting point for the debate must be to ensure equal opportunities for men and women to pursue the life they want. That doesn't mean we have to be the same. Equality does not mean that everyone has to make the same decisions and that all results have to be distributed 50-50. However, we need to work on equal opportunities so that men and women also have a better chance of breaking gender standards in practice. In other words, it is not enough to remove gender-discriminatory legislation that we do not have so much of, but we also need to look at what is actually happening in the world. And if the reality is that there is still strict segregation, we should act on it. In the Conservative People's Party, we agree that action needs to be taken to eliminate gender segregation in education and the labour market. We also agree that sexual harassment must be combated. We just don't want it anymore. And the problems that IGBT people may have need to be dealt with. However, one of the most important tasks, when it comes to equality, is to break with negative social control, and here employment efforts are a key factor in combating social control. But it cannot stand alone because the problem of gender equality is deeper, and the Minister for Gender Equality must also look at that. We have a huge problem when it comes to equality, especially for women in Muslim environments. We have seen horrible examples of how women are being held in negative social control when they want to be separated from their men. This can only be done if they sign a shariaskil-miss contract by the local imam and mosque. Social control must be a woman's worst nightmare. We have a job to do to help women who are under surveillance in this country. We owe them that. That is why it is an excellent initiative for the government to have more immigrant women in employment. But why has the government not implemented the demand for 37 hours of employment? Norwegian experience shows that it has a beneficial effect on integration and employment. We also see a great deal of support for the women's crisis centres, and we very much support that. There must be a great deal of support for this from here. The government will put forward legislative proposals that support the work of companies and organisations to promote a fairer gender distribution in boards and management. It is not very specific what is in mind, but overall we think it is a bad strategy to try to regulate itself out of the under-representation of women in management. It is a problem that there are so few female managers, but companies have a huge focus on diversity and do a great deal of work in this area. It is a culture that needs to be changed. We do not believe that quotas or the reporting of actions, etc. will make no difference besides pulling resources out of the business. That is why we are also in favour of the possibility of posting job positions in government management and boards, which is a relevant alternative to quotas and boards of directors. Let me just say a word about equal pay in the country of origin. The aim of gender-based pay statistics is to avoid discrimination. However, the difference in pay between women and men is not due to discrimination. This was examined in 2010 by the Salaries Commission, which among others. concludes that the Equal Pay Act is respected. In other words, men and women get the same pay if they do the same job. The challenge is that they often do not do the same work, even if they have the same training, position, and are, moreover, similar. After 2019, the government's support parties submitted a proposal to promote equality, where they want older people on the law that companies with at least 35 employees should draw up an annual overview showing differences in men's and women's pay when they have the same job function. The aid parties want it to apply to smaller companies as well. However, there is no justification for the support parties' proposals to promote equality. On the other hand, it will cost small businesses a considerable amount of bureaucracy. This will leave less money for pay, the working environment and actions that are actually important for gender equality. It is difficult to see the good reasons for introducing a comprehensive bureaucracy designed to ensure compliance with the law when it is already observed. Then there's the thing about maternity. The government and its support parties believe that maternity is of great importance and affects parents' careers unequally. But I guess it's up to the individual family to arrange. At least that is what we in the Conservative People's Party think. They find out and know best what makes the best sense to them. It's not a government mission. We believe that we should be careful not to think that more legislation is always for the better. But we also believe that it is time for companies to start making arrangements that will allow men to take more maternity leave, i.e. walk the talk. Equality is a statistic and a measurable size, while equivalence is a dynamic process. Equality is a periodic temporal experience with which both or more parties have a relationship. Equality differs, among other things. in that it does not necessarily reflect in any particular distribution of roles. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415130038	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Fatma Øktem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415130043	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. After all, I share a great deal of what the rapporteur says. I fully agree with and believe that there should be as little legislation as possible and as much freedom as possible, that the state should interfere as little as possible, that we politicians should interfere as possible and that families should decide for themselves as much as possible. I fully agree with that. The rapporteur said that each family knows best, which means that parents know best when it comes to maternity. I cannot help asking the rapporteur: do parents not also know what is good for their child? If the child expresses that it is not in the right body, it is not the parents who know best. So I want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that parents know best when it comes to a child expressing that it is in the wrong body.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415130145	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415130146	Yes, and thank you to the rapporteur. When it comes to legal gender change, which I sense the rapporteur is referring to, you Conservatives take the view that legal gender change should not take place until 18 years of age. It is to protect children, and it is sometimes to protect children from their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415130208	Is there no other comment from Mrs Fatma Øktem? No, okay, good. Then we say thank you to the Conservative rapporteur; there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizen, please be ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415130225	Thank you. Here again we have another statement, another debate on equality. I'd be happy to take them. This debate has, of course, run in the same groove as they have done the other times, and last time I flattened the myth around the 14 per cent, because I thought it was appropriate. Some socialists had toured it for too long, and at least they can no longer do so without a great many citizens out there knowing that it is a falsum. Now we can hear that the Socialists have put their zeal on this maternity scheme. Now we have to decide in here from centralist teams that politicians simply know best how to conform to each family. It is an obscure and very, very dangerous thinking that one believes that one has the right to dictate the lives of other people and believes that one can know what is best for them when it comes to providing maternity leave. In New Citizens we believe that it should be entirely up to the parents, whether the woman will use it, or whether the man will use it. Politicians must interfere far, far beyond that. Then I would like to point out that there is a debate out there this time about midwives and their salaries, and when I look at their salary versus their training and their duties, yes, I do not really think it is enough. I think there is a problem there, but I do not recognise that this is the way some people think it is all going back to an official reform of 1969. In other words, if you claim that there is no equal pay, which you think is not a falsum but at least that there are problems with pay out there, you might ask what the trade unions have done over the last 52 years. There has been wage negotiation on pay negotiations, and this is the clearest example of the complete failure of the trade unions if they have not managed to rectify it in 50 years. But let's just look into it. I would like to look into it, even if the same parties say that the midwives should have something, and one is willing to say: well, then we should have looked at the salaries of the academics, communication workers and PR workers who sit around the municipalities and regions and get 700,000 800,000 to do something in a position where they have great job security and are not in danger of losing their jobs. I'd like to take a look at it if you'd like to move money from there. But if you just want to finance it, I think it was a 10-12 million. kr., this would cost who's gonna finance it? Where's that money coming from? Is it increased taxes? We already have the highest tax burden in the world. It would be disastrous to go down that road. But that does not matter to the socialists, because for them, citizens are just a big money tree that you can pick from, so you can meet your own personal wishes from in here. I have repeatedly said that if you want to start somewhere, you could start by making up with the completely failed Service Act, No. 109 which many of the Socialists have adopted and which discriminates between men and women. There you can start; that's where the Folketing can make a decision, and that's where we can actually do something about this. But the idea that by forcing people into certain educations people can be forced into certain work is simply a totalitarian thinking which I do not like, and it is a mistake, because it cannot be done without massive coercion. Fortunately, we have a society in Denmark where young people can choose according to their skills and their interests, and they have been doing so for very, very many years. That's nice, and we're gonna pay tribute to that. Instead of constantly saying that we have a wrong labour market where men choose something and women choose something else, we must pay tribute to it. We must pay tribute to the free choice that people have made repeatedly. And I have still not received an answer as to whether those who talk about quotas for women in management and board positions also believe that there should be quotas in waste management work. That answer blows a little in the wind. It is probably because it is mostly a matter for feminists to squeeze into the posts they want and gain more power in society instead of really talking about equality. That is our position on this statement. We think it's good that there's another one. We think it would be nice if we started addressing the things that we could actually legally do something about in here on the part of the Danish Parliament. That is, for example, the case. To say that no, there should be no difference between men and women in terms of maternity leave, and the best way to do that is by giving it free and saying that families can decide for themselves; then there is no discrimination there. And let me just take the last one about it with equal pay in the public sector: there is, in fact, plenty of evidence that says that people actually get the same pay if they perform the same function, but it is just the case that with so many things in the public sector, men, even in kindergarten or nursing, have sought up in higher positions, and therefore there is a difference in pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415130702	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it should be the Liberal Alliance, but I do not see that the rapporteur is here. All right, let's move on. We give the floor to the Minister for Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415130732	Thank you for the floor, President. And also thanks for a really, really good debate so far with really, very many dedicated speeches. As several speakers have said, it is not really a very long time since we debated equality in December, based on the government's 2020 perspective and action plan. And that much hasn't happened since the last time. However, with the government's new perspective and action plan for gender equality 2021, we have set the track for the next year's work in promoting gender equality across ministries. The plan contains 57 equality initiatives across 13 different ministerial areas. For although we have come a long way with equality, which many, fortunately, also highlight, we are not in the end. Today, I would like to highlight the key challenges that are at the top of my and the government's gender equality agenda in 2021. Firstly, we must spread the fight against sexual harassment. Secondly, we must continue to fight against negative social control. Thirdly, we must create better opportunities for fathers to take more leave with their children. Fourthly, we must work to promote equal pay. Fifthly, we must support the inclusion of more women in management and boards. Let me start with the first. Sexual harassment is not a problem that can be isolated to strong women with long education, as we have heard most so far in the Metoode debate. The problem exists everywhere in the labour market across industries and relationships, but especially among young people, those with the shortest education and lowest wages. We know from surveys that the lowest paid are exposed seven times more often to abuse and harassment than the high paid. That is why there is a great deal of work ahead of us in this debate. We need to have a broader focus on the challenges, because that is the only way to bring about a real change in culture in the workplace. Last year, the government launched 14 initiatives focusing on enhanced prevention, detection and consequences in cases of sexual harassment both in the labour market and in educational institutions. I am currently engaged in tripartite discussions with the social partners on how to prevent and deal with sexual harassment in the workplace in the best possible way. The plan is that we will hopefully arrive at an agreement around the summer. Once the trialogues have been completed, I will establish a broad alliance across organisations and with relevant NGOs. It must ensure a sustained focus on cultural change also in the coming years. Another important fight for equality takes place among minority ethnic women who are subjected to negative social control. There are also several rapporteurs who have highlighted this in this Chamber today as a key point in the fight for equality. For them, we owe everything we can possibly support in their freedom struggle. Much is about helping women into the labour market. Non-Western women make up one fifth of those who have been on cash benefits 10 years in a row but account for only 2%. of the population. At the same time, we know that there are women being pressured by their husbands or family not to take a job. It is a problem and an equal opportunities problem for women that they do not enter society, learn Danish norms and values to know and earn their own money and not least experience the freedom it gives. In Denmark, the liberation of women started just when women entered the labour market and became financially independent of their men. The government's ambition from the requirement to contribute 37 hours of work if you receive public support is therefore also that immigrant women become an active part of Danish society. We must send out a clear signal that both women and men must participate in society and contribute regardless of their background and culture. The government will also work to ensure that fathers have better opportunities to take more leave with their children. We need to implement the EU directive on earmarked leave, and although I would rather not have seen EU regulation in this area, I agree that it is important to have a more equal distribution of leave. It will benefit both the children and the fathers about the mothers. For me it is very much in the interests of both children and men, and that is why it is quite a man-political agenda. Fathers continue to take only 10%. of the total leave, although we know that many fathers would have liked to have lasted more. And studies suggest that father's leave benefits both children's development and well-being, improves father's health and association with the child and also reduces the risk of divorce. That is why we need to give fathers a better hand when the distribution of leave is to be negotiated both in the family and in the workplace. I hope that earmarks can contribute to that. I expect, at the end of the spring, to call for negotiations on how best to implement the EU Leave Directive. But there is also a need for a cultural change, so it becomes natural for fathers to take leave with their child. That's why the campaign "Action Fars Orlov" in 2021 focuses on just that. After all, the lack of equal pay between women and men, which many people have touched on in this Chamber today, remains a central challenge. The pay gap between men and women is still approx. 14% across the labour market, and that is, whether you consider it in what is explanatory or inexplicable. The wage difference is approx. 14% The reasons are not simple. There are a number of rapporteurs who are also right about this, and it cannot be solved with a snap, which some at least seem to have the impression of. Part of the pay gap is linked to the fact that the labour market is very gender-based. A number of activities are already under way to reduce gender-separated education and the labour market and to bring more women into management. And we are now going to look into the EU's proposal for a directive on wage transparency and look at the consequences for Danish legislation. On this basis, and on the basis of knowledge of what works in this area, I would like to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to discussions, expected after the summer holidays. The last key challenge I would like to highlight is the gender distribution in management and management. Women remain under-represented in management and boards that we lag behind our Nordic neighbours. For the government, it's not about the individual woman who's going into boards or top management. It's about all people's lives and everyday life. For everyone, regardless of gender, must have really equal opportunities to pursue the career they want, whether it is on the construction site or in the boardroom. Because we want a society in which both men and women have the opportunity to gain influence and sit on the table when decisions are taken and because it offers the best solutions for our society and business. But developments are moving too slowly. In 2019 women alone accounted for 23.5%. of management in companies and organisations. In the next Assembly, therefore, the government will put forward a bill supporting the work of business and state institutions with a more equal gender distribution in management. These are major and, above all, complex challenges that we face. They must be solved jointly with the social partners across the parties of the Folketing. We have already shown that it can be done. With a broad majority in the Folketing we have among other things. introduced a consent-based rape clause, improved maternity conditions for self-employed persons and ensured that both parents receive digital mail about a common child. I look forward to good cooperation with all the parties in the Folketing on the major gender equality agendas in the coming year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415131609	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Fatma Øktem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415131614	Thank you. Now I was almost overturning the minister's speech. No, the Minister mentions how important it is that we get ethnic minority women out of negative social control and that the labour market plays a very relevant role in this. I believe that, too. We believe in the Left that economic independence and getting out and getting some other input and having a voice help to make it easier to break out of negative social control. In the Left, we would like to use all the parameters in relation to the penal code and to tighten up the law for those who exercise negative social control, but make the economic incentive greater, because we believe that it works. I would like to ask the Minister how this is related to the fact that being on passive support increases with the policy of this government. That doesn't match the fact that you choose to use all parameters. I just can't make it fit. Does the Minister not think that the economic incentive is quite important when it is the case that people have to break a standard?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415131731	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415131732	To answer the question directly, I would say that, of course, it has a role to play. However, I believe that you are sticking yourself in the eye in relation to the complexity of the challenges, too, if you think that is the only parameter. So, I know that under the then government, under the leadership of Mrs Fatma Øktem's party, a large number of things were introduced: the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule. In general, substantial and considerable restrictions were placed on the provision of support for some of these groups in particular. After all, it has not caused immigrant women to jump into the labour market, and this is due to many different things. And that is why we are great supporters of a 37-hour work obligation; that is, for the support you receive, we also expect you to show up for 37 hours. Some of it can be for teaching, some of it can be useful, some of it can be for business-oriented offerings, and something can again be quite different. But we think that the fact that there is a requirement that you have to go out the door every morning to get your support at all will play a significant role in breaking negative social control and hopefully also give more ordinary, paid hours to exactly these groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415131846	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415131847	I simply do not agree. I agree that we should, but I think we should all use that, in other words, we should use the penal code against those who exercise social control so that they can understand that they should not do so. We need to increase the economic incentive, so there is one more plus. We need them 37 hours, yes. So I do not agree that the economy does not also matter when it comes to moving in the right direction. I can see that my time is unfortunately over.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415131928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415131929	It gives me, if not a question, an opportunity, if nothing else, to make one thing clear. And it is not, of course, because the government is of the opinion that the economy is not We are merely asserting that we do not believe that it is a grip that alone brings a lot of immigrant women into the labour market. Because that would have happened a long time ago. We believe that there are other tools that must also be in play. And one of the things that we can see, and which I hope will work, by saying that you have to show up, is in relation to the negative social control that is taking place on the family side. Just to give an example, I can say that Als Research carried out a survey among job centre workers in the City of Copenhagen, where seven out of ten job centre workers have had the experience that a family member is trying to pressure a woman not to accept job offers or educational offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132017	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132019	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for all the expressions of the talks we will have during the next year. I really think that's strong. It may not come as a surprise that I just wanted to ask you a question about this bullshit thing, because it's insanely important to us in the SF. This is something we have been fighting for for a very long time, and if it were for us, we would make an earmarking for men who were equal to the one who is for women, so that it would be an equal earmarking. Is that something that the Social Democratic Party could also imagine we are doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132053	I do not think it comes as a great surprise to Mrs Astrid Carøe when I reply in the way I do, namely by saying that we in the government basically have the view that we want to be very clearly and I also mentioned this in my opening speech that more fathers take more leave with their children. We believe most of all that it will benefit the children, but we actually believe that it will be of great benefit to the fathers. And that is why I also call it a man-political agenda. We are then also awaiting the work of the Employment Ministry's Implementation Committee, where the social partners are currently participating, and it makes recommendations and comments on how to implement the EU Leave Directive in Denmark in the best possible way and with the best balance sheets.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132142	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132143	No, it didn't come as a surprise, but I'd like to see if it wasn't today that the Social Democrats could make this clear. Then I would like to hear about something else from the Minister. I fully agree that we should also look at this cultural change in relation to the fact that there are a lot of men who are about to go on maternity leave. This is not something that has been tried before, and that is why we in the SF are also looking at whether we can make some initiatives, for example. Far-ambassadors, who are something that very many municipalities already use. Can it be spread to a greater extent? Can you support Father's Legestue? Can you support Father for life, which is an organization? Could the Minister imagine that, in implementing this directive, we are also looking at initiatives to make it easier to be a father on maternity leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132223	In other words, I will not rule out the possibility that we can discuss and agree on initiatives that can contribute in every way to raising awareness of the rights of fathers, but also the desire to make use of those rights. When we mention that we want to implement the Leaves Directive in a way that really leads to more fathers taking leave, it is of course also with the idea in mind that one of the worst things that I think we can do is to implement it in a way that, on the one hand, becomes too square, and, on the other hand, an over-implementation which means that for many families, for many families, will end up renouncing leave and never having it used. We think that would be really boring, and that is why we have to think very carefully when implementing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132311	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132313	Thank you. Can the Minister mention 2, 3 specific examples of women who have been refused a job on the board of directors or boards because they were women?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132324	At first sight not on the stand. And I cannot, of course, in the sense that I do not know what kind of thinking is going through in state institutions or private companies when you either choose or opt out of candidates. I feel convinced that the vast majority of people will hopefully choose on the basis of qualifications, but that is an important thing, but when we can see that the management posts and board posts in both business and government institutions are occupied by only 23.5%. women, so there is some indication, not the whole explanation, but at least there are some structural challenges when it comes to women's equal opportunities to occupy and be elected to management positions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132415	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132416	But if one thinks that it is the system that does, then the logic must be that there is discrimination in the state and the municipalities, and also in one's own government, if it is so that women are denied board positions and management positions. I would like to ask you another question: what about the Family Court House? Does it mean that men and women are treated equally and fairly, or does it also mean that there is discrimination there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132442-2	Well, I actually think that the answer to both of those things, as sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen asks about something structural in our society. There is a structural explanation for why there are fewer women who currently do not occupy management positions, and that is because, in particular, maternity and long maternity leave are not career-promoting for many women and have not been so for many years. Then there is the question of the Family Court House, and there is one reason why, I think, many men are being treated unfairly, and where we can also see in the statistics that men have a smaller share of the overall care with children in divorces, that they have not taken an equal part of, for example. maternity leave from the start of. Nor are they the ones who have taken the first sick day of the child, and that is one of the reasons for considering conflicts between families.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132533	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132535	Thank you very much. Thank you to the Minister for a very good speech. I would like to dive into this with people with a minority background in the labour market in relation to social control. Several rapporteurs and also the Minister himself have mentioned this. But there is also another aspect of it, for example. there is a study that shows that women with a scarf should send 60%. More applications to get interviewed at all and that women with a minority background without a head scarf should send approx. 20% More applications to get interviewed. I think that is a problem. And we have also recently seen a major report from the Ministry of Employment on the extent of bullying and threats in the labour market, where it is almost twice as large a proportion of people with both Western and non-Western backgrounds who answer that they are being bullied or threatened at their workplace, compared to those of Danish origin. What action does the Minister intend to take in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132645	In any case, I would like to say that the recent bullying study to which Mrs Samira Nawa refers has also made a great impression on me. Unfortunately, this is not surprising, but it can always seem violent when you see it documented in writing and in such a comprehensive study that bullying, discrimination and harassment in everyday life in a workplace are so pronounced, partly among many of our fellow citizens with different ethnic backgrounds, and partly also among women, which the bullying study also documents. And I believe we have a great task ahead of us here. I think it is a major problem that equal applicants are not treated equally, and when I say straight, I am talking about the same qualifications. If one is sorted out because of one's name, if one is sorted out because of one's appearance, if one is sorted out because of one's gender for that matter, I think it is a major gender-political challenge to which there is no easy answer, but I think that the beginning of finding the answers is to take that discussion openly and honestly with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132758	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132759	I am very pleased about that answer, and I think we are very much in agreement, because the debate on gender equality must also be spread out that everyone, regardless of gender, but also ethnic background, sexuality and so on. must have the same opportunities in the labour market. One of the ideas that we have in the Radical Left, and which we also brought to the table in the financial legislation negotiations, is the proposal to have a genuine national action plan against discrimination and racism, which, among other things, is one of them. It is also possible to focus on the labour market. What does the Minister think of such a thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132836	Personally, I was not involved in those discussions myself, but I do not wish to reject in advance any initiatives that could contribute to this. After all, a few years ago we have had something that led to, among other things, one. The legislation tightened up a discussion on harassment in the nightlife of young people with a different ethnic background in particular. I think this is important. In other words, if, on the one hand, we demand that those who have come to Denmark or, for that matter, have been here for many years to be seriously integrated, that they should be fully active in the labour market, then, of course, on the other hand, we also have to do what we can to ensure that they have equal opportunities in society in the broad sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132923	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415132926	Thank you. Oh, my God, I feel like a straitjacket of all those laws and quotas and rules about what we are allowed to do on maternity leave or not. So freedom is so taken away from us Danes. And that is not because we are not in favour of equality and do not want to see more people, on the basis of their competences, come forward in society. Personally, I would not want to be employed on a quota, either in one place or another. But it was something quite different that I wanted to ask the Minister. And it's all about this whole thing with • and I think it's a good thing that you're focusing on the negative social control. Because this is really something that I personally also think is an important agenda for equality in Denmark. Because there we have a huge problem that we cannot overlook. And I simply believe deep in my heart that employment is the way out of it. We have seen this before many generations ago, so I cannot understand why the government is not just now implementing the 37 hours of employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133035	First of all, I would just like to correct Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Because I or the government don't have on the program to propose quotas for women's participation in boards. We have said that we will promote initiatives that can help women on the road to management positions and in business. We have not talked about quotas. The second is that I would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction at the fact that both Mrs Birgitte Bergman's party, but also Mrs Fatma Øktem's party, is now very much in favour of this initiative for a 37-hour commitment to work. There wasn't when we first launched it as an idea and as a playback when your two respective parties had government power. At that time it was warned that it was expensive and that it was a bad solution. So I think that these new notes and this consensus are a good sign of the forthcoming negotiations that we must have, and I shall be delighted to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133137	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133138	I am also pleased that I hear the Minister say that the Social Democratic Party is not in favour of quotas checking on it! We, as well as a great many women, are happy about that. The next thing I want to make sure of is that there will now be a European Union leave directive. We strongly oppose this, and I just want to make sure that the government does not go in and overimplement this, but listens to the Danish family out there. For the majority of Danish families would like to have the opportunity to choose for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133214	I would like to start by saying that it is not with the government's great wish that this has come as a result of the European Union's directive on leave of absence. In other words, we were opposed when the European Union was going to regulate this area at all, just as we are opposed in so many other areas where the European Union wants to regulate in the labour market. Now it was adopted. Unfortunately, Denmark was voted down in the Council under the then government. We could not find a blocking minority then, as a nation, and now we have to implement. So we don't really want to overimplement it. Of course, we will listen to all the votes that are, and the first ones we listen to are the Implementation Committee, which makes clear recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133258	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133301	Thank you. I was glad that the Minister just explained that the liberation of the Danish labour market and the entry of women into the labour market was something that took place over generations. For what is now being tried in relation to other groups in society is to implement it over months. And that is an important factor in that I was glad the Minister said. But what I really wanted to say was equal pay; point four of the Minister's statement. And there I got the impression that although it was said that there is nothing that can be solved with a snappy • that one of the solutions, and now it is the female carpenter who asks, was that there was more equality in the individual professional groups and that by itself it would somehow trigger more equal pay. I believe that the problem is more complex than that, and that is why I would like to come back to what has previously been concerned about the classification of the individual professional groups in the context of the official reform and what needs to be done to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133414	I fully agree with Mrs Jette Gottlieb that the problem is very, very complex. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the female part of the Danish labour force is still away, and fortunately for that, it is much better paid than you are in so many other places. That is no excuse for anything, because we still have a pay gap of about 14 per cent. Whether there are parts of it that cannot be explained and other parts of it that can be explained, it is there and it is structurally determined. And we certainly have a desire to do something about that. As far as the reform of the civil service is concerned, I would just like to say quite frankly that we are currently in a situation where negotiations on public contracts are being conducted at the very end of the day. Mrs Jette Gottlieb knows as well as I do that nurses, with a very, very narrow majority, chose to vote no. What we are doing from there in relation to our negotiating community and everything else is unclear, and that is why I will refrain from commenting politically on something that can somehow influence the discussions that are taking place in the course of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133522	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133523	I am in complete agreement with the Minister on this point. But that is why we can raise it to a more general level and consider that the problem must be solved structurally and possibly not through collective bargaining, but that, as the employer of the state, as the public employer, we must take the problem on board and say: some things were done in 69 in the spirit of the times. Now we are in another year, and that is why we have to do some other things, perhaps also in the spirit of time and in relation to the very great consensus that equal pay would be an excellent thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133557	But there is no doubt that there are some structural challenges, and I think it is in all subjects, and especially in relation to the fact that we still have what we call traditional male and traditional female occupations. I know that this has been discussed in some quarters. that the solution to all this is to go in and reverse an official reform that was made in 1969. I know that there are others in their negotiating communities who are discussing whether they should demand wage increases in kroner and ear rather than as percentages. I will refrain from commenting on either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133633	Thank you. There are no further brief comments and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate on this item has ended.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133645	The debate is open. We shall give the floor to the Minister for Gender Equality first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415133729	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution we are debating today, Mr. Sikandar Siddique, sir. Uffe Elbæk and Mrs Susanne Zimmer to introduce a mandatory practice of anonymising applications to public posts. I therefore agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that indirect and direct discrimination in the labour market must be combated, and let me make it clear that I am of course impressed if job seekers are sorted out because of either their gender or age or because their name is not Western sounding. It is quite wrong for me to see that this can happen at all, because it stands in the way of job seekers' development and manifestation of life, and because the employer misses valuable and skilled labour. The government simply finds it totally unacceptable if job seekers or employees are discriminated against in the Danish labour market. That is why I am also pleased that we have clear legislation in this area, which contains clear rules to prevent illegal discrimination on grounds of, for example. age, gender and ethnic origin. This follows, among other things. In this context, it should be noted that, in the context of the legislation, every employer must treat job seekers in the same way as employment and that it is an absolute principle that employers must not discriminate against them in a negative way, for example. in relation to the ethnic origin or sex of a job applicant. Of course, I have a clear expectation that all employers will comply with the law, including in the case of recruitment, just as I am sure we agree that it is always unacceptable when someone is discriminated against. In other words, both legislation and common sense suggest that there is no discrimination. Nevertheless, we have to note, unfortunately, that we are still seeing individual cases and investigations which show that there are challenges. However, the question is whether new legislation, as proposed, is the way forward. The regulation of employment in state employment is a matter for the Minister of Taxation, and I have been informed that there is already considerable protection in the public sector for job seekers, for example. under the Administrative Act and the Discrimination Act. At the same time, recruitment today falls under local management law. This means that it is the individual employer who has the right to choose who is employed. A demand for anonymisation of applications will impose constraints on local employers and will run counter to the principle that it is the individual employer who has the right to choose who is employed. I do not think that this is something that we, from the political side, should interfere with with further legislation. I would also like to stress that a requirement to anonymise does not alter the primary fact that state employers should employ the best qualified candidate. The state recruitment practice is based on the fact that an objective assessment of the job applicant is always carried out on the basis of the formal requirements of a job notice and that no emphasis is placed on e.g.: age or gender, because it is forbidden to discriminate and because it is common sense to employ the best qualified, but we cannot run from the fact that we can still see examples that this does not happen. However, I do not believe that the solution at this stage is new legislation, and I do not believe that the proposal, as put forward, will solve the challenges, as few people are employed on their application alone. It is my clear conviction that we will be the longest through information and dialogue and that we will have to be even better at delivering the message that it is stupid both for the individual job seeker and for the individual employer if it is not the best qualified candidate who gets the job. It is therefore the government's opinion that no new legislation should be introduced requiring anonymisation of job applications for public posts. Against this background, the government is recommending that the motion for a resolution be rejected. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134123	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134127	Thank you, Minister. Of course, it is no secret that the proposers are disappointed that the Minister will not support the proposal. The Minister said here at the end of his speech that the Minister does not believe that this can solve the challenges we have. I can tell the Minister that there are studies from both the Netherlands, the United States and Sweden which show that this can help solve this particular problem that we are talking about. I would like to ask the Minister specifically about something that you also mentioned in the previous debate. When the government thinks that this is a problem and I assume that everyone in this Chamber thinks that this is a problem, why not try anonymised applications, which do not cost much, so that we can give the public the opportunity to choose people on the basis of competences alone? If you are against the discrimination that is taking place, what is the rational reason why this proposal should not be supported?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134239	As I mentioned in my speech, the Minister for Taxation is responsible for the regulation of employment in state employment. To repeat this, I have been informed by him that demands for anonymisation of applications will impose constraints on local employers and will also fundamentally run counter to the principle that recruitment of employees can take place under local management law. An attempt, like Mr. Sikandar Siddique is now talking about anonymising applications, and I am not going to change the primary fact that state employers have to hire the best qualified candidate. In addition, I can mention, and I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware that back in 2007, the City of Copenhagen carried out a pilot experiment with anonymous applications in the financial management and employment and integration management, and the focus in that attempt was to get job applicants with a different ethnic background from Danish. And the experience of that experiment was that unnecessary administrative efforts were spent on anonymisation, and that anonymisation did not have the intended effect either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134347	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134348	And if you look at those who were actually applicants in the same study, you will see that 60%. with a minority background said that they actually felt they wanted to apply for these positions because they were now anonymized. That part has yet to be included in the Minister's reply. After all, the Minister and the government are talking a lot about combating negative social control, and the Minister said just now that it is about women having to earn their own money, becoming self-employed. We know that women with a scarf must send 60%. More applications, and this proposal will precisely ensure that more women become self-employed and get into work. I would like to hear from the Minister why they do not support this very specific proposal. We can ensure that negative controls are stopped and that women get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134436-2	I would like to start by saying that the government does not reject the fact that more initiatives may be needed, for example. information campaigns aimed at employers, about their duty to actually comply with the legislation as well. But in the example of Mr. Sikandar Siddique mentions, is one of the challenges that women with ethnic minority backgrounds simply seek significantly fewer jobs than correspondingly unemployed ethnic Danish women. I think this is due to a lot of different circumstances. Something is self-inflicted, something is not self-inflicted, something is due to family relationships, etc., but that is what our 37-hour initiative must do about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134523	Thank you. Then I have no further brief comments, so we thank the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line and the first is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134546	Of course, when you send an application to a public office, it should not be your name, age or ethnicity that should be the basis for your options. It should at all times be the competences of the job applicant alone. It's as simple as that. According to the proposers, this is not always the case today, which is why they want to anonymise all job applications to public posts, so that no personal information is disclosed to the employer. In 2007, the City of Copenhagen launched an attempt to anonymise applications in which information such as gender, ethnicity and sexual orientation was removed. The study was subsequently evaluated to determine whether the study should be continued and, if so, rolled out to other parts of the municipality, but on the basis of the evaluation it was recommended to stop the study. Firstly, it was a resource-intensive process, but today we would probably have other and more effective tools to facilitate the use of resources. Secondly, there is no clear effect of anonymisations. Thirdly, the recruitment committees experienced that they were deprived of the opportunity to make decisions on a proper basis and that there was a risk of well-qualified applicants being rejected because they did not have the full impression of the applicant. We already have legislation which protects job seekers from discrimination, the administrative law and the discrimination law. Does this mean that no employer breaks the legislation in force? Probably not, unfortunately. But I am also not convinced that what the proposers are presenting here will bring about a real change. In Denmark, it is rarely the case that one is employed on the basis of an application alone, and therefore discrimination will still be possible at the time of the interview. That is why I agree with the Minister that it requires other means. Social democracy fully agrees with the proposers that direct as well as indirect discrimination on the Danish labour market is unacceptable. This is of no benefit to anyone, including the employer himself, who is at risk of writing off well-qualified applicants, and we therefore support the Minister's statements on issues and cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134751	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134753	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am, of course, disappointed that the Socialists will not support the proposal, because we recognise that there are these challenges, and now we are leaning on administrative legislation, and there was another legislation, as the rapporteur pointed out. Nevertheless, we have seen a Danish doctor who points out that women with a scarf must send 60%. several applications. We know that there is discrimination. If the rapporteur then also mentions the 2007 study, I also think that the rapporteur needs to tell us that, although it is true that those who should administer it thought it was a hassle, then those who were on the other hand thought it was a good idea. As I just mentioned, 60% said. with a minority background that they wanted to send more applications. So I still have to hear what the rational reason is for not anonymising the applications, because we are not going in and deciding who should be recruited. We give the opportunity to come to an interview, and then it is still up to the boss and the employer to choose or not to choose. This is just about giving the opportunity to be considered.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134903	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134903-2	Well, I actually think the 2007 survey where we were both Social Democratic members of Copenhagen's citizens' representation is relevant. For Sikandar Siddique knows that no one else got the jobs, even though they had different ethnic backgrounds. So that wasn't the answer. That is why I think that we need to look at some other measures. Well, we did that study together at the time, and that's where I find it hard to see it as a success.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134928	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415134929	What matters here is that we should not force anyone to hire a particular group of people. What matters is that we ensure that the public sector and our companies have qualified employees. But if you are not given the opportunity to show your qualifications, but are sorted out from in the first part of the process, then we are failing both companies, the public sector, the people who are affected and society. After all, this is basically about giving you the opportunity to get a wider candidate field so that everyone can be heard. And then it is up to the individual employer to choose whether or not you want the applicant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135021	Thank you. Then it's the minister, no, sorry, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135023	Thank you. I just thought I was lucky for a second. I'd like to say to Mr. Sikandar Siddique: I think the study we did together 2007 is essential. There would have been more people who would have gotten the jobs if that had been what helped. And there's so I think you have to see it in a whole. I believe that this study is actually very useful. Then it may be that someone has had an experience that they wanted to send more applications, but if you don't get the job on that basis, that's not what helps. I also think, as the Minister said before, that the tax minister, who has this area, has taken this very seriously and said very clearly that we must not discriminate against these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135107	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we are ready for the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Maja Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135126	Thank you for the floor, President. In the Left, of course, we want a society in which your name, your gender, your age and your nationality do not affect whether you will have the position you have applied for. It should and should only be your competences that determine whether you are the right person for the job. Fortunately, this is also true in most places, but unfortunately not everywhere. That is why we very much recognise the problem that lies behind the motion for a resolution which has been tabled here. We are very sympathetic to the debate we are now having in the Chamber, because this is an important debate. Indeed, it is not right that some people feel that they are not elected to different positions on the basis of quite different things from their competences. However, we do not believe that anonymisation of job applications for public posts is the right solution. This is mainly due to the fact that we in the Left would much rather use the resources to tackle the causes of the problem instead of treating the symptoms. Discrimination and unequal opportunities in the labour market are a historic and cultural problem, and it takes time to resolve this. It can't be solved with an administrative snap. Moreover, we in the Left are advocates of trust. We believe that those responsible for the recruitment process in the public sector are also the most suitable for the task, at least in the vast majority of cases. And if you, as a leader, still have a strong desire to opt out of candidates on the basis of their sex, age or nationality, you will be able to do so in the further application process if you implement this proposal, i.e. anonymisation of job applications. We therefore believe that we should look instead at how we can really improve conditions so that everyone has equal opportunities in the labour market, both in the private and in the public labour market. This requires that we change a culture and it is hard work. We need to be better at lifting each other and at making each other better without making ourselves worse. We must learn to believe in each other, and we must learn to believe in ourselves, across differences and not in spite of differences. This requires initiatives to celebrate women who celebrate men, older and younger. One of the initiatives aimed precisely at honouring women who inspire and lift others with their work and character, we find in North Jutland. Last year, a prize was instituted, the Kamma Prize, a prize which, in all modesty, I co-created. The Kamma Prize is awarded every year to a woman who has taken the lead in inspiring other women to pursue their dreams. The prize has already been shown to have created visibility around the very many cool and brave women in North Jutland who are helping to inspire others and pave the way for other women. It gives more women self-confidence to go after their dreams, it gives more women who help each other into influential positions, etc. That is why we must learn from each other, we must lift each other up, and we must not least see the value of diversity. And we need to focus much more on the debate on gender equality, which will help to raise awareness and thus also the ability to act to create more real equality. For that is the only way we can really support, for example, the UN's World Goal five, which is called gender equality. In the Left, we simply do not believe that anonymisation of job applications is the solution, so we cannot support this proposal either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135604	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135607	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am disappointed, because now is the second or third time I have been standing down here with the rapporteur of the Left and have made a political effort to ensure equality. And every time I get the same answer: the intentions are good, that is right and so on, but we do not support the proposal. Then I look forward to seeing the Left's proposal in the Chamber. I still have to see that. The Left does not believe in the proposal. Then I just want to hear something about the research that's been done. I can also refer specifically to research in the next question. But it has been made in Sweden, it has been made in the United States, it has been made in the Netherlands. I just need to know what it is in the research the Left doesn't believe in. It clearly shows that it will ensure better equality in relation to discrimination in the labour market. So what is it on which the Left bases its argument? What kind of research is that? Or is it just such a gut feeling that this isn't gonna help? Could the rapporteur not put some words into it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135712	As the author himself mentioned earlier in the debate, this has not proved to have any real effect. This has given some people who have sought these posts a sense of more equality, but it has not really created more equality. And in the Left, we want to devote our energies to measures that can really help push for increased equality and diversity. As I mentioned in my speech, we believe that we must support a culture that goes more towards real equality. We can do that by pushing on it. We can do this by learning, as for example, some tricks from men and men can learn some tricks from women so that together we can become stronger in terms of also raising awareness of gender equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135806	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135807	I would just like to reiterate that I look forward to seeing the concrete proposals of the Left to combat this inequality in the labour market and this discrimination in the labour market. We certainly still have to see that. I can tell the rapporteur that an attempt is being made in Norway on anonymised applications. Lots of research shows that this is helping. Then there is an old 2007 survey where our society looked different and where it was not digitised in the same way. That's one shot. And then there is all the other research here that shows that it actually helps. Why is it that the rapporteur and the Left base their position on one study and not all the other research that is in this area which shows that we should actually do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135856	We do not believe in the matter of imposing this extra administrative burden on everyone in the public sector when it comes to hiring. And then we believe in trust. We believe in debating and creating more awareness of the value of diversity as well. Everyone really wants to create the strongest team in the labour market. After all, you want to have the candidate who is best suited, and we need to have that addressed in this debate, namely that there is a value to it. So we don't believe in this solution. We want to use resources where something can really be moved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415135940	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140004	Thank you very much. I would like to begin by saying that we do not, I think, surprisingly support the proposal for the rapporteur. We don't think we should anonymize job postings. I myself have tried to sit on a public board with 400 applications, and I would say that it is really difficult to find out what to go for, but I would say that it was certainly neither name nor anything like that. But just to get ready for today's debate, like everyone else, I also went in and found the 2007 study, which says that it was not something they recommended in the City of Copenhagen. But I found one more study, because I hear the rapporteur says that everything else is good, but no, no, no, there is one in Australia; it is a long way off, but the United States to which the rapporteur refers is also the United States. In Australia, it was said that the experiment is seen as an obstacle to an active diversity policy. The attitude of the recruitment committees is that the experiment makes it difficult to match internal and external needs for a particular employee composition and that the anonymisations thus hamper an active diversity policy in the selection of applicants and thus risk acting counter-productively. The result shocked Harvard Professor Michael J. Hiscox, who has been monitoring the Australian tests of blind recruitment, as they call it there. It was expected that it would have a positive effect on diversity that it would make it more likely that female candidates and candidates from ethnic minorities would be called up for job interviews. I don't know if you're listening or you're talking down there? I know I was on the phone too, but sometimes you have to pay attention to what's going on, but they found out the opposite happened. So there are other studies that show the same thing. I would also say that when you sit and have to hire someone, there are many things that are involved, and I never thought that it should be involved, what ethnicity you had, or whether you were a man or a woman. And I wonder, because now I have heard it a few times in the course of this debate, that it is said that women with scarf were chosen from. I mean, do they send you pictures? Is that what you do? Well, not everyone does that everywhere. So I'm wondering. I never sent a picture into a job application, only when I was running for parliament or for municipal elections. However, we cannot support proposals. We would not have been able to do so, regardless of what the studies had said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140258	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140300	Thank you to the rapporteur. Yes, I knew that the Danish People's Party would not support the proposal, but I have two comments and then a question. I know the Australian study, and the Australian study will be among other things. were criticized for the fact that, before this study was carried out, the experimental parties knew that this was about anonymised applications and that it was about minorities and women, and that there was therefore a tendency to cross off in a certain way. So that study is among other things. That is why we have been criticized. In addition, in 2007 there is this study to which reference is made time and time again. Well, it was a different time, and we weren't digitized the same way. Today, it's not that difficult. Today it's IT systems you have to change, and it's a template and that's it, and it doesn't cost much either. This isn't about whether to decide whether to hire someone or not. This is just about not being discriminated against at the first process and being able to come to an interview. So it is entirely up to employers to decide whether or not to hire one. That is where the difference lies, and I hear the argument that it has to be up to the employer to decide. So is this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140413	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140414	Now I have always been of the opinion that I myself thought it was nonsense when you started writing m/k in all job applications, and that was a lot of years ago. I'll decide for myself if I'm gonna hire someone, whether I want to hire a man or a woman or someone with a disease or someone with a different color of skin, or whatever the hell it's gonna be. Surely not a state should come and tell me who to hire, and I don't think we should do that in public either. We have to hire those who are best, and then you have to be good at writing an application, and if you're not, it's bad luck, and then you have to learn it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140448	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140449	I repeat again, Mrs Liselott Blixt: this is not the state that is going to decide, it is the employer who is still sovereign to decide whether to hire one or not. But studies just show it's a Danish doctoral woman with a scarf to send 60%. several applications to be considered. If you have a Danish-sounding name, you have 53 per cent. greater chance of being considered. So if the Danish People's Party does not support the proposal here, what will the Danish People's Party do to combat discrimination in the labour market, among other things. on the basis of age, that is, our seniors, who are also affected? What will the Danish People's Party do if it does not wish to support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140531	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140533	I am in favour of openness and I am in favour of writing the real things, so we have something to assume. Today you get 400-500 applications, and it's nice to know what to look for. Then it's said that you don't get a job because you're wearing a scarf. I can understand that. Because I do not believe that a scarf belongs in a public institution. In other words, it signals that one is submissive and that one comes with a certain religion, and I simply do not think that should be in a public position. So it could be that you had to start taking off the scarf, and then it would be easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140605	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140617	Thank you. Let me start by saying that I am really glad that we are going to discuss these today. Because discrimination is something that we must take very seriously, and I think, like the authors of the motion, it also requires action. That is why we also support the proposal in the SF. The framework for seeking a position should never require discrimination. I also think it is important to say that I do not think employers deliberately discriminate, but we people like to be able to refer to something we know, and that is not very clever in a situation where you have to hire a new employee. Because I don't have any figures about how many studies I've seen that show over and over again that we're hiring people who look like ourselves, and that's a shame, and this proposal can help to put an end to that hopefully. That is why I really think it goes without saying that we must act, because many jobs are only for the benefit of society, and yes, we can start with the framework for applications. Because if you go to Jobindex to apply for a public position, in the vast majority of cases, you must indicate your gender, age or citizenship, actually to a greater extent than you need to do in private positions, and that sets the foundations for a really large group of people. When the male boss has to hire a new leader, he will most likely call another man for conversations. We also know that when Turkish Selma has to apply for a job, she has to send 52 per cent. more applications than Danish Julie, just to get to one interview, and we know that applicants over 50 years of age are systematically discriminated against in the application process, because the application is likely to go directly into the shredder, and very, very few seniors are employed in the public sector today, and I find that embarrassing, and that is not equality. That is why it is really good that we can actually do something about it and that we also know that it works. For both Swedish and Danish studies, an anonymisation of applications has an effect, especially on how many women and ethnic minorities are called up for interview. I think we should take this quite seriously. One of the things that most impressed me in these studies was that not only were more citizens of the end ethnic origin called for an interview, but far more also sought the posts for the simple reason that they dared. They dared to believe in their own qualifications when they were not afraid to be rejected because of their source, and I think that is worth chewing on. Because we just must not discourage qualified employees from seeking because they are afraid to be discriminated against. Anonymising applications in whole or in part is no golden solution to discrimination. It is not a wand that makes gender, age and ethnicity insignificant. That is why we are not finished thinking about solutions when we finish here today, whether there is a majority or not. It may not seem quite there, but I think this is a step along the way, and I look forward to finding out what we can do more together. For we must create inclusive and diverse jobs in the public sector. We have a duty to do so, and I think this proposal is a very good step on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140922	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140924	I just want to sign and say thank you to the SF for the very clear support here. I'm thinking that the support parties have a job to do to get the government to agree to this idea. I know that this is an area in which Mrs Carøe is concerned, and I look forward to further cooperation in this area. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415140949	You're welcome, and I actually think we might be able to get out of the way. It may be that we can do some of the things in this proposal, and that must be some of the things we are talking about, now that there is no majority here, for example. to say that it is not legal to say that you have to write your age in a job posting. It could, for example, be done. I am sorry to say that this is a start when we cannot get a majority today. But then we will have to look at other solutions that are majority in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141017	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique apostates, and then the next sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141018	It is out of curiosity that I should like to ask: if, for example, A municipality has a perception that there is too much female staff in childcare and that therefore counts as a plus, if you can get a man next time there is a job open, or if it is vice versa in the road and park, namely that there are too many men and you really want a woman to break the monotony, does this proposal then come a little to the disadvantage that you can find the applicants you would like to have, i.e. because you do not realize that there is actually a woman, and that woman may not come into conversation for some reason, if you do not know it is a woman, or if there is a man who may not come into conversation, if you do not know it is a man?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141111	It is very funny that it is turning around now, because now I am going to say that it is important to choose those who are best at work, and that is what you want to do here. We just know from a lot of studies that you're biased when you're hiring people. You typically choose people who look like you. It's human, but we can do that this way. I think it is quite fair to say that some male educators are missing, but hopefully there are some talented male educators who will be called for an interview.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141137	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141137-2	Well, what's the point here is that in that case, their gender can be a qualification in itself. It may be that you have ten applicants for a kindergarten and that the man is among the five less good, and then there are five really good. But if they had known that he was a man, it would count up, so perhaps one would overlook that he did not have as much experience in the profession as the five women, because he was a man, or vice versa in the road and park, if it was a woman who sought and you had too many men. So, in cases where it is a qualification in itself that the person is a man or a woman, you do not notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141216	No, but I still think you should hire those who are the best. And this is very funny, because I didn't think it could be a qualification to have a certain sex. That is what the liberal people in the Chamber usually say, so it is a little funny if you have changed your mind and gender suddenly can be a qualification in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141233	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141234	I am also a little curious now, because how is this actually to be checked? I mean, there's probably a reason there's a lot of companies that haven't introduced this. How does the rapporteur think that the state should be able to check whether they are actually doing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141249	This is meant for government and not for companies. It's for public applications, and that's us. So you have to sort it out, and I actually believe that there is a suggestion in the motion for a resolution as to how to do it in the IT systems. I also think it is quite strong that a resolution is so well worked out. I think that's a nice place to start to see if you can do this. It has also been done in the City of Copenhagen, and it was done there because it was something that politicians decided that it is so when it is public and not private. In the private sector it is actually the case, especially in a lot of large international companies, that they do not ask about these things at all. They don't ask about age and ethnicity, because there are many countries where you can't ask, so that's what they're used to. We are just not used to it in the public system in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141328	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141329	Clearly there is no need for it out there, because one has to assume that there were a lot of municipalities that would have done so if they thought it was necessary to do so. The point is, you can anonymize the first part, and then people sit and look at it, and then they say, well, okay. But when they call people, they can end up sorting some out anyway. This isn't a safety valve because you don't choose who you want, because you have to break up where they live, and you can see their name anyway. It's just putting in an extra barrier. Those people who are anonymized should be told that they are going to talk again, and then you can just do it when you get their name, that you say: No, you're not going to interview anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141408	In other words, you can see from the studies that have been made that more people with other ethnicity come into conversation, that more women in typical male jobs and vice versa, and also people with a higher age than usual, so I don't think you go in and look people up at Krak it's also very laborious. This is just about the first impression you get from the person, i.e. whether you see what sex and what age and ethnicity they have, and I don't think that's necessary to form an impression of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141439	Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141440	Thank you. I always like to see who I have to sit across from, and I think it's important that you have the whole human being. I think we should be careful not to anonymize everything and get out on an overdrive where the gender or background we as a human being bring in as a profile is completely wiped out. I think it's a dangerous way to go. And I acknowledge that there are challenges. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur recognises the study carried out by the Australian researcher, where it turns out that if anonymisation is done, it actually means that women's chances of getting a job fell by 2.9 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141538	Thank you. Well, it's not like you have to be completely anonymous to the interview too, so don't worry, you meet the whole person when they come to a job interview, and you get to decide who you want to hire. So this proposal is not as far-reaching as the right would like it to be. In relation to that study: yes, I fully recognise that there is an investigation, but I also see that there are a great many other studies that say otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141601	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman. No, she's gonna drop out. Then there are no further brief comments, and I would like to thank the rapporteur. We can then move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa who
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141617	Thank you very much, President. When you go to an audition in an orchestra, it usually takes place behind a curtain. The veil ensures that one is chosen on one's professional skills and not on anything else, and this has actually led to much more women being selected for orchestras. These so-called blind auditions have managed to overcome the unconscious bias that we humans have, i.e. this tendency to choose to hire those who look like ourselves. The veil eliminated the impressions, which are the first we get, of gender, age and ethnicity. And even if we think we are able to judge completely neutrally and fairly, that is not always the case. After all, we come from an equal opportunities debate, which was the previous item on the agenda, in which I, among other things, am speaking. also said that everyone in Denmark must have the opportunity to achieve the job you want and live out its full potential, regardless of gender, age, sexuality, ethnicity, disability etc. That is why we in the Radical Left see that this resolution is a very good solution. I myself, a few weeks ago, was out saying something similar in Politiken about anonymous job applications, where I say that I do not think that we in the state should have applications that contain name, picture, age or gender, so that we precisely get rid of this unconscious discrimination. One of the things I saw was that the state has actually taken an initiative, namely to remove gender and age from its schedules. And I really don't think this is so far from what we already have. So from the point of view of the Radical Left, we will warmly support the proposal that we ourselves adopted at our national meeting and which is also a very good radical policy, namely to ensure that all people have the same opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141839	Thank you. There are brief comments, and that is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141840	I will certainly not rule out the fact that this is a good idea in individual public institutions, in whole municipalities, in the state or in ministries and agencies, certainly not. Is it the case that the Radical Left, where the Radical Left decides, has decided to do so? Because I do not think there is anything to prevent a municipality from deciding that that is how they will do it. I do not think there is necessarily anything to prevent the administration in the City of Copenhagen, on which the Radical Left sits, from deciding to do this. I do not think there is anything to prevent a ministry in which the Radical Left has had the office of Minister from deciding to do this. Is there anywhere where the Radical Left decides to do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141927	I think that is an excellent question which I will go back and check up on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141934	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415141935	But we know the answer. You could call the question I asked a rhetorical question. There is no place where the Radical Left decides to do this. It hasn't been seen. We do not know that there are administrations, municipalities or ministries that have been led by the Radical Left where they have done this. I do not know that anyone has done so at all. Then the question is: if this is such a good idea, why does the Radical Left not do it where the Radical Left decides?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142001-2	When I mentioned that I wanted to check it out, it was because my first thought was that we all have secretarial assistance here in the Folketing. It would be an obvious place for the Radical Left to do so. That is immediately where I see that the Radical Left actually sits on a power to opt out, to see name, age, image, gender etc. on job applications.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142029	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique. No, sir. Sikandar Siddique apostates. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142053	This proposal is, of course, neither violently revolutionary nor a magic wand, as was said, which, with one blow, will solve the problems we think there are with the diversity of our labour market, but it is a good proposal. The reason why Enhedslisten thinks it is a good proposal is that it offers an opportunity for freedom. It gives an opportunity for freedom when you make your application, that there are some things that you choose to write, which you choose to communicate in your application, as opposed to the various compulsions associated with applications to the public. Because it is the case that there are schedules in public institutions, such as public institutions. as the first point has an indication of age, and if you do not fill it in, you cannot fill in the rest of the form. So it gives the applicants a freedom. We like that. Then I would like to say that the first important condition for getting a width, a diversity, in the applicant area is that there is even a job vacancy. There is nothing to consider in relation to the public employer, because there has to be a notice. There must be a notice when looking for employees in public life. This is the first important prerequisite, and I would very much like it to be extended to the rest of the labour market, but it is not on today's agenda. But the very fact of having a post obligation to say that there is a vacancy here is the first prerequisite. Then comes the next, and that is, what should it say in an application, and how do you select an applicant? After all, there is evidence that very many employers hire people in their own image. That is one of the reasons why there is a width that you do not get. There are examples of people who have left out a foreign-sounding middle name and thus came to several conversations. There is an example of two who knew each other well, who had the same training, swapping applications, and then it turned out that what was crucial was that the name was Karen Jensen and nothing else. This was what made it possible to get an interview on the basis of identical CVs. It is not the case that when you make an application with a food description, you can suggest that you are 22 years old if you actually have 30 years of experience. Nevertheless, many, many employers have the understanding that they would prefer to have one of 32 years of experience. That's what they need most. It's also based on what they often make the selection on. But those applicants just don't exist. That is why there is an opportunity to tackle some inappropriate ways in which posts are occupied, if you make the little grip, the little grip of freedom, to give people the opportunity not to write it in their application. I am not in this situation and will attack the right of employers, including public employers, to direct and distribute work and to fire and hire. That's not the job of this proposal. This is just giving a small opportunity to show a different kind of imagination than the one we have seen unfolding. I think it is quite amusing that today we are three rapporteurs who actually sat in Copenhagen's citizens' representation when the exciting experiment that was being carried out in Copenhagen was introduced. That is why I am well aware of the whole range of the evaluation of the proposal, which is much wider than the way it has been presented from a few pages. I think it was interesting that we did it then and that it was a good idea to do it. I think we should do it again. A lot has happened since. There are, for example: a digitalisation of the entire recruitment process, which was not there before. So I think that's a really good idea. So if we cannot go anywhere else, we can at least encourage some municipalities to try again to introduce some experiments in the current situation and in this modern age • here 15 years after our original agreement. So we support the proposal and see what happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142517	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142523	The Enhedslisten has now been in power for 7 years in the Technical and Environmental Administration in Copenhagen. Before that, you had power in other administrations. You have the mayor's office, and that means that there are things you can do that you don't have to ask the citizens' representation about, for example. the recruitment policy of one's measure. I do not think there is anything to prevent the mayor of the Technical and Environmental Administration in Copenhagen from deciding that anonymised job applications will be sent to those who will assess who will be interviewed. Why has Enhedslisten not taken advantage of Enhedslisten's power to implement what Enhedslisten claims is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142604	In fact, I think it is rather a misdirection, because it is actually the Employment and Integration Committee that decides that kind of thing. It is not the mayor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142616	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142616-2	I find it very difficult to imagine that the procedure for selecting who will be interviewed involves the committee. I can only imagine that it is the administration itself that is responsible for it, possibly for a boss post, you ask the committee, but for an ordinary post you do not ask the committee. I am sure that the committee is not involved in what educator you hire in the crèche at Thyborøn Allé. I'm just asking, and you might try not to talk about it when there's a relevant question: why doesn't Enhedslisten do this where you can do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142654	Well, I answered what was asked. I did not reply to what is now being asked, so why is there no interference in the actual recruitment of the specific institutions? Who chooses what and how to select what is quite different from the principle, in relation to trying to make applications where there is certain information that you do not want to highlight. These are two completely different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142720	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Don't forget to drink off. You've done that; it's great. And then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415142737	Thank you for the floor and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution, which, of course, means that all applications for public posts must be anonymised. This means removing as much of the personal information as possible in a job application. I think this is an important debate. We recognise that there are still challenges. We have to meet each other that everyone is equal regardless of gender, age and ethnicity, that everyone has a worth and that everyone can contribute and must contribute to our good society. However, we do not believe that closed eyes and blind recruitment is the solution to the problem of equality. If we are to ensure equality, we must do so with open eyes and through transparency. We should not remove information for the employer and for Mr's departments. A recent study shows that blind recruitment does not benefit women, but actually men. In Australia, a few years ago, attempts were made to remove candidates' gender from applications to management levels in the public administration. Here it was clear that partial anonymisation meant that men's probability of being called up for a job interview increased by 3.2 per cent, while women's probability fell by 2.9 per cent. This was a result that surprised Harvard Professor Michael J. Hiscox, but nevertheless led him to conclude that one should be very careful about introducing blind recruitment, as it may be counterproductive. If it doesn't work, why do it? We do not understand why the Greens want to introduce restrictions on the recruitment process of companies when they are not sure that it will work. And even more incomprehensible is that you do it when it can have the opposite effect. It is important that companies and public jobs retain their right to decide for themselves. I trust that Danish companies and public institutions and jobs themselves can ensure that they hire the most qualified candidate, regardless of their gender, age, nationality and nationality. After all, it is in the best interests of the company. I am pleased that the Minister recognises that a demand for 37 hours of employment for immigrant women can help solve parts of the problem in this resolution. The Conservative People's Party cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143008	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143009	Thank you to the rapporteur. I will repeat what I said to the Left: I have been in several debates now with the rapporteur for Conservatives, who says that they will fight this discrimination and ensure that there is equality and so on. But you never support any of the proposals that come down here. So I look forward to Conservatives making their proposals in the Chamber or negotiating and doing something so that we can combat this discrimination. Then I just have to say that frankly, with all due respect, it seemed as if the rapporteur had not got involved in the great work we have actually done with this proposal. It doesn't say anything about companies in this proposal. So I do not understand why the rapporteur's speech was about companies. This is about the government. Then the rapporteur says that I now have 13 seconds left, so I shall try to ask a question about this one study in Australia that I have had problems with. But does the rapporteur not recognise that there is a great deal of other research, Swedish, Danish and American, which says that this is a good idea? So there is much more research that says it is a good idea. Couldn't that get Conservatives on other thoughts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143121-2	No, it cannot, and it is because, whether it is a public workplace or a private company, before we look around, it is the next thing that the Greens will bring in, perhaps even companies. That is why it is important for me and for the Conservative People's Party to say that we are just opposed to this. Because we don't think that's the way to solve it. We do not believe that legislation in this area is necessarily always the right way forward. This has something to do with a cultural challenge. It has something to do with transparency. There's something about enlightenment. It's the way we think it should be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143155	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143156	Then I would just like to give the rapporteur an opportunity. It's a little meta, isn't it? Of course, there needs to be a structural change. We need a change in culture. But what kind of ideas do Conservatives come up with to fight this? Because we are talking about minority women entering the labour market. Here I come up with a concrete proposal based on research. That is how we can get them out. Conservatives don't support it. So I would just like to know if the rapporteur can then make what proposals Conservatives have on the way to ensuring that our seniors are not discriminated against; people with a different sexual orientation are not discriminated against; women with a scarf are not discriminated against; minorities are not discriminated against in the labour market? What do we do? What's Conservative's bid?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143239	Well, one of the best proposals we have here today is precisely that we should have 37-hour employment for immigrant women. It is good that they can get out of social control, it is good that they can be received on the labour market. They're needed. We need our hands out there. And then it is a task which lies outside the individual companies and also within the public institution. This is not something we need to legislate on in here, but we need to share in informing about it. We must help to create visibility about it. I share that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143308	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143312	Thank you. What led me to speak was that the solution had to be a 37-hour working week for immigrant women. But it is also the case that a great many seniors are rejected as soon as they have passed 50 years. This is actually quite a serious problem, and I think that both Mrs Birgitte Bergman's and my own party are in favour of working, also on the other side of 50 years, and in the long run we must also raise the retirement age as we get older and healthier, but what if you cannot get a job when you have passed the 50 to 55 years because you are sorted out? Isn't this a good solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143358	I recognise that there are challenges when you reach a certain age or have a different ethnic background. But the solution is not to legislate out of everything; the solution is to inform and make information campaigns, and then it is a culture in companies that needs to be addressed. There will be a need for us to be on the labour market much longer and I simply do not recognise that this is the biggest problem of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143426	Mrs. Samira Nawa? No, there is no follow-up comment. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143434	It's just because I just wanted to follow up on this with age as well. I have talked to a headhunter who has spent a lot of his life headhounding to private companies, and he says that in private companies you very rarely ask about age. It is illegal to do so in Germany and, because it must be international, there must be the same standards. This actually means that private companies are better at recruiting seniors than they are in the public sector. In the Treasury it is very, very few. Of the 200, 2 were over 50 years old who had been employed. Isn't that something we should do about? Is it not serious that there is such discrimination against seniors in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143520	I do not recognise that there is a great deal of discrimination against seniors in the public sector. I just don't. I'm not buying that premise. This is about hiring people on the basis of their qualifications, the right skills and the right profile. Now I'm 54 years old, I've never been without a job, and I'm sure that if I stepped out of the Folketing, I'd probably find a job. It is also about the individual's motivation to find a job, and I simply do not recognise the idea that we should have anonymity and that that is the solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143555	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143556	But if we can now see that there are so few over 50 years employed in the public sector in relation to the private sector, is it just because people over 50 years of age automatically apply to the private sector, or what does the rapporteur think? Because it's a challenge for so few people to be reinstated. If you work somewhere in the public sector and want to be employed somewhere else in the public sector, you are simply automatically sorted out, at least according to the figures available. Or maybe the Ministry of Finance just can't use someone who's over 50 years old, but I guess it's a little weird if that's the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143627	The preface to starting with the Ministry of Finance and then saying that it is a picture of the whole public sector, I simply do not buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143637	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143651	Thank you. I am not going to refer to any studies or research or anything else. I do not need to say that I think this is a bad proposal. I think it is because there is a suspicion of people who hire other people, and I do not like that. In addition, centralisation is taking place, which I do not like either. If anyone out there wants to do this, it's fair enough. They should be warmly welcomed to do so. But I'm not going to stand in here and decide in a centralist way that they should. These are the two main reasons why I cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143719	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143722	Thank you for your clear speech, anyway. As far as the rapporteur is concerned, can the rapporteur see that this would actually benefit the public sector and that, hypothetically, if it were to spread it to companies, it would actually benefit the bottom line, because there are some with many competences that are sorted out from it shows studies and research, and I am very much assuming that New Citizens also believe that because of these prejudices, unconscious prejudices? Can the rapporteur see that if the first part were anonymised and people came in, everything else would just give a broader candidate field, better competences for the company and a better bottom line?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143809	No, I really can't. I mean, the whole idea that there are companies that deliberately discriminate and then just live with having a bad bottom line, and so I hear someone saying in relation to the fact that if you employed more women in management and boards, you would have 8 per cent. Better numbers on the bottom line is bullshit. Listen, if there was a director of a company, and now I've been on the board of some companies who deliberately chose out women or others and thus got 8%. worse numbers on the bottom line, they were fired on the spot. So no, I'm not buying that premise at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143839	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143841	No, no. I said exactly the opposite. I said that because of unconscious prejudices and unconscious biases, business leaders or others are going to choose someone who looks like them. Studies show you choose who you look like. So unconsciously they are going to sort out talented people with skills that might be really beneficial and beneficial to the company. I know, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is a reasonable man, a rational man, and that is why I am asking this question: Will it give better competences or less better competences and thus a positive output on the bottom line? It's subconscious that I'm talking about... subconscious bias.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143922	No, it won't. For what you do, and now I've been working really, very many people when you sit on an appointment committee or you sit two or three pieces together, is that you make sure that you don't just sit two people looking at it the same way, but that you have two different age groups, two different genders or anything else, for example. two different posts that sit and hire. Sometimes you're three people sitting around hiring people. In this way, you make sure that you have a diversity in the way you view the individual application. So no, I just don't buy that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143945	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415143959	There is a fundamental difference between private companies and public institutions. Private companies are constantly under pressure. If the competitor is better at hiring the good employees, the competitor can also deliver a better product and it goes beyond the bottom line of the company that cannot do the same. Therefore, there is always such pressure on private companies, which compete with other private companies, to get the best possible employees and try to ignore the private prejudices, etc. that people can have, and just see how to make this workplace work best and produce best. I'm not worried about that. I am not worried about what is going on over there, and even if you unknowingly have some prejudices against some and get to choose wrong etc. then there is a market out there that means that if companies consistently don't hire the best employees while other companies hire the best employees, they can eventually go bankrupt. In other words, there are companies that go bankrupt all the time, and if you are not on the market with the premise that you want to hire the best employees, you risk being one of the companies that goes bankrupt. And the companies that remain on the market are the ones who can actually figure out how to ignore their own prejudices. So I'm not nervous. However, with regard to public jobs and public institutions, I see a reason to be nervous. No one is looking at the bottom line, because there is why a head of a kindergarten can afford to hire just those educators and educators who look like the manager, or who have the same opinions as the manager, or who think the same things as the manager about all sorts of things, so that you get a job where everyone is the same. I can see there is a danger in public institutions and in public jobs. That is why I am very open to this being a good recruitment policy. I must also say that after I have thought a little about it, that if I had to get into a position at a time when I could be in charge of employment in a public administration or in a ministry again, the world should be so happy, it may well be that I should consider talking to the Head of Department about whether we should introduce such a system here. Perhaps there is a danger that employees in the Ministry, who sit with the recruitment skills, will look a little too much at whether those who seek are similar to themselves, rather than looking at whether they are the best possible ones. But I am not going to, we are not going to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, because the motion for a resolution says that the Folketing must decide what recruitment policy should be in every ministry and every administration and municipality and region of this country. In every kindergarten, every school, every road and park department etc. Parliament must decide to use this recruitment procedure, which I can think in theory maybe, it may well be, is actually excellent out there. Perhaps in some places they should consider introducing this. But to give the Folketing the power to decide which recruitment procedure should be used in detail, every place the public recruits, I do not want to do so. I also think it has been revealing in this debate that lots of parties have the opportunity. And I didn't get the question to SF, and it annoys me a little, but SF is also in power in many parts of the country. SF has both mayors and councilmen in Aarhus and mayors in Copenhagen etc. The SF has also held ministerial posts. I know that the answer from SF would be the same as what was from Radicals and from Enhedslisten, that no, not a single place where you can decide it, has been done here. Now you go to the Folketing and say that you will decide for the whole country that it must be done, even if you do not do it yourself where you have the power to do it. It is a marvelous hypocrisy that you do not do it where you can, but want to control all sorts of others where you do not sit in power, and there they have to do it, even if you do not do it where you decide. So we will not allow the Folketing to decide in such detail about public institutions and public employment policy, and that is why we are voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415144432	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415144434	Oh, I'm just saying. I thought, as the speech progressed slowly, that LA was surprised and would actually support the proposal (Ole Birk Olesen Well). One of the arguments is that you will not make such a common template for how everyone should hire. Now I know that sir... Ole Birk Olesen himself has been Minister. Then former Minister Mr. Ole Birk Olesen confirms that there is a common IT system, that is, a template that you are using right now. So the argument that you do not want to create such a common system falls a little short, because we already have such a system, namely a common system where there is a template that you use. So what does the rapporteur have to say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415144524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415144525	In fact, I do not know in detail what system the staff of the Ministry of Transport, where I was, used for this; I was not so much down in detail. But I can say so much that I did have some board posts for which some people had to be appointed, and I did, after all, say to all the staff in the department and in the board of directors of my ministry that they needed a recruitment agency to find some names to get the best possible committee. Then the names came in to me, and then I looked down on the list, and then there were some women and there were some men. And if I wasn't sure which employee was best, then I told them to hire the woman, because I was nervous that I appointed too many men in the ministry. If I had not been able to see the names of people, I would not have been able to do so there, so in this case it is quite certain that the fact that I could see the names of people meant that more women were recruited to board posts in the state than if they had not been able to see the names.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415144628	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415144629	Okay, but then I can at least confirm to the rapporteur that there is an IT system, and that is one of them. in the template of the IT system that people today have removed gender and age, where we want to remove much more and believe that we should anonymize more things. Another reason why I too was so optimistic today on behalf of LA and thought that ah, it may well be that LA is supporting today was that the rapporteur's colleague, Mr. After all, Henrik Dahl has been out to deal with identity policy. Actually, this is where we're gonna end it. Here we say: Remove all the things • no allowances, nothing at all • just let us announce it, and then it is competences, and only competences Isn't that something for LA?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415144708	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415144711	Yes. That is why I am also open to the possibility that there may be jobs where it is right to do so. On the other hand, I have also given the example of my ministerial period, where people were to be appointed to board positions, and where the fact that I could see the names led to the fact that when I was in doubt whether it was a man or a woman who was the most qualified, the woman's gender spoke that she was the one who was given the board post because I was nervous about being accused of employing too many men. There were already many of the posts where there were only male qualified applicants, so where there were women who were just as qualified as men, there was a tendency to choose a woman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415144749	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415144807	Dear colleagues, dear listeners. Today, we have on the agenda one of the great highlights of the Free Greens, namely discrimination in the labour market. For in Denmark, unfortunately, we are witnessing the systematic and structural discrimination of people. Every day and in different contexts people experience being chosen from because of their age, gender, race, skin color, religion, sexual orientation, disability or ethnic origin. And this also applies to the Danish labour market, unfortunately. Because in Denmark your name, gender or gender identity or expression, age, religion or ethnic origin can have a decisive effect on whether you land at the top. Yeah, because if you're called up for an interview at all in the first place. That sounds quite absurd, but unfortunately it is a reality. For your name is Fatima, Wuarga, Mohammed or Alejandro, or if you are over 50, or if you have a different sexual orientation, then your options are just worse than if you are Mette, Marie, Rasmus or Rune. If Fatima even wears a scarf, or if Mohammed is transgender, the possibilities further deteriorate. In other words, the problem has an intersectional dimension. A recently published Danish PhD concludes that minority women wearing scarf must send 60%. more applications than ethnic Danish women to be called for an interview. A minority ethnic woman without a scarf must send 18 per cent. several applications, and if you have a Middle Eastern name, you should send approx. 52% more applications than if you have a Danish name. We all know the discrimination that is taking place around our seniors. If you are a woman and dream of a leadership position, your odds are generally worse than your male colleague's. This fact is also reflected in Denmark's incredibly poor position on the Global Gender Gap Report in 2020, measured on women in management. There we have a seat that is not to shout hurry over: number. 102 The trends we are seeing here are actually illegal, because according to Danish legislation discrimination on the labour market is prohibited, whether direct or indirect discrimination. It's forbidden. And that's what we need to stop right now, and I can't imagine that or that at least it was when I wrote the speech that someone in here would disagree with it. To put an end to discrimination in the Danish labour market is of course not something we do over night. However, researchers point out that a place to start is implementing a practice on anonymous applications. With such a practice, we can increase the neutrality and transparency of recruitment processes. This will reduce the company's biased attitude towards candidates in the early selection process and ultimately provide new opportunities for access. For us in the Free Greens, it is therefore obvious that we should try to go that way in Denmark, and that is why we propose that it be made compulsory that all applications to public posts be anonymised. Secondly, the state should take the lead in the fight against discrimination and form a role model as an inclusive employer and as an employer who recognises and is open to the fact that discriminatory attitudes can influence recruitment in the state. And if there is a tool that could potentially contribute to less discrimination in the labour market, we naturally owe it to the citizens and society to use it. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415145235	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415145311	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415145331	Thank you for the floor, President. Today we are dealing with a motion for a resolution which we have been discussing in a number of shades since the last parliamentary elections, and it has been a discussion for a long time and which, of course, we welcome from the government. We do so both because it is important and because it contains many nuances. The motion for a resolution deals with the abolition of the provision of benefits based on the principles of mutual dependency of cash benefit recipients, early retirement pensioners and old-age pensioners. This is a motion for a resolution which is very much similar to the resolution that we discussed in this Chamber back at the end of 2019, namely B 34, which at that time gave rise to thorough discussions on the scope and, above all, the complexity of the issue. I read the present proposal in such a way that there is a desire to settle the part of the benefit regulation which causes the benefit of a cash benefit recipient or pensioner to be affected by the income of any partner. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. The government is very aware of the issue, which has recently also been raised in relation to citizens who have experienced set-off as a result of additional work during the Coronapandemic. We jointly found a solution to the acute problem which arose in an extraordinary situation and the solution involves a temporary relaxation of the rules when there are citizens who have made an extra effort during corona. It was important, and I am very pleased with that. With regard to the specific proposal that we are considering today, I would like to make it clear once again that we cannot equate mutual dependants with the regulation of benefits for married and cohabitants, pensioners and early retirement pensioners. The mutual obligation between spouses in the cash benefits system implies that everyone is responsible for supporting himself and his or her spouse in accordance with his or her capacity. Cash benefits are the lowest financial safety net, and the rules mean that you cannot get help from the municipality if your spouse has wealth or income that can meet the family's financial needs for support. It is the civil liability laid down in the law on the financial situation of spouses which is essential for the liability of a spouse in relation to the cash benefits system. The responsibility for providing for a spouse ends by separation or divorce. People who live together without being married are not responsible for supporting each other, even though they live together in the same way as married couples. In addition, today we have a tax system which is also geared in several areas to the principles of mutual liability, for example. couples can make use of each other's personal allowances, giving married couples a better opportunity to support each other. A great deal of work is currently being done by the Service Commission, which has been given the task of making recommendations for a new one and among other things. more simple cash assistance system. I would therefore recommend that we await the Commission's recommendations for a new system of benefits instead of discussing isolated, but very fundamental, elements of the cash assistance system. In the case of dependent spouses and couples in the pension system, there is no mutual liability in relation to the rules on retirement pensions and early retirement. Here, the pension is measured on the basis of a common income for spouses or couples to ensure that benefits are targeted as necessary. However, substantial deductions are provided for to ensure that the pension is reduced only in the case of a significant common income. In addition, the pensioner is always provided with an independent dependency, as part of the pension is granted independently of the income of any spouse or collector. For over 100 years, the starting point has been that there are advantages in being two about the household. The income of a spouse or a couple therefore has an impact on the level of support provided by the welfare society. The purpose of the rules is to ensure the appropriate and targeted use of the tax-financed services. Having said that, I know that the economy can be tight when you receive public support, and I can understand that it may seem unreasonable that one's co-life situation affects the economic situation. At the same time, we also constantly have to give priority to how we spend the money we manage on behalf of the community, because our social model depends on the contribution of all those who can and have the skills, and it is based on a principle that our services are targeted at those who have the least and who need the most support. In this way, we can afford a strong social safety net where we take care of people who cannot support themselves. However, I am aware that there is a problem which concerns many citizens and also politicians here in the Folketing. It is also always possible to discuss whether the right balance has been struck between the need to target public services on the one hand and the need to provide reasonable opportunities, for example. to have an income from work. However, as soon as we go in and relax on rates, deductions and rules of dependency between couples and spouses, it costs money, and no matter which way one chooses to go, it will require tough economic priorities and it will reduce the targeting of benefits. For example, the abolition of the phasing-out of benefits in the pension system as a result of any partner's income will result in additional post-tax costs, reflows and behavior of less than half a billion dollars a year, and that is not an entirely insignificant amount. Although I would like to acknowledge that the proposers have put forward proposals for funding, including being open to engaging in a dialogue on other funding, the issue is also basically about whether there is room for the required economic priorities, especially at a time when we are struggling with the economic consequences of the Coronapandemic, which is the government's primary focus right now. At the same time, it is also important to bear in mind that a total clash with spouse dependency will have some distributional consequences and thus not be of benefit to everyone. In fact, out of the total number of early retirement and old-age pensioners, a significant number of pensioners benefit from the common income regulation because they can take advantage of the partner's unused income deduction and, at the same time, as the proposal is very comprehensive, it is not something that the government can support at present. In the end, I'd just like to pick up. In the government, we are concerned that our services are targeted as needed, but we also recognise that it is always relevant to discuss whether we have found the right balance between the various considerations. Changes have also been made in recent years which improve the conditions of the pension system, especially for pensioners who are married or cohabiting. First, with the 2019 Finance Act and later with the agreement on the entitlement to senior pension for worn-out from the same year, when the deduction limits for the income of folk pensioners were increased and escalated as a result of the income of spouses or collectors were relaxed. Although I recognise the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, the government cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. This is due, among other things, to the fact that it would be very expensive to complete the abolition of mutual and spouse dependency. A clash with both the mutual dependency and the spouse- and partner-dependence will mean that tough economic priorities will have to be made in other areas, and the government simply does not think this is a viable way to go. It is the government's view that this resolution is for spouse dependency. Because, as I have said before, it is always possible to discuss whether we have found the right balance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150203	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150207	Thank you to the Minister for the speech and also for the openings expressed by the Minister in his speech. It is clear, of course, that I would have liked the Minister to have said that we are now doing it together, that we are now going all the way, but I probably didn't expect that to happen, so I will take up the positive points that I think are coming forward. First of all, I would just like to say that the part about the partner's unused deduction is something that the Ministry of Finance has put into it. In other words, we have clear examples in connection with the benefit system and in other areas too, and we can easily take advantage of the partner's unused deduction even if you receive a benefit. This is not something that we have written, but something that the Ministry of Finance has written in their reply. I think that's something you could ask the Treasury to see if you could stop doing things forward. I would like to ask a question about the Arne agreement, which has not been taken into account. Does the Minister think that we should be inspired by the Arne agreement and actually relax in more places in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150320	I would like to begin by saying that, in relation to the principle of spouse dependency, it is also true that we, like Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen is now not in the Chamber any more. In fact, he expressed very well the other day during the treatment, in Denmark has had a tradition of seeing the family as a unit, which I also think is the right thing, although one can discuss the limits of it all the time. And part of the principle of spouse dependency has also been that as a family unit, as spouses, for example. has been able to take advantage of each other's unused personal allowances. And if, in the case of a possible solution, you have to take that part out of the proposal, if you have to take that position, then everything else will also make the overall solution more expensive, so at least you have to bear that in mind. In relation to the specific question, I would like to say that we thought that it was only reasonable to do so, when the right to an early retirement pension was a genuine right which one had acquired after seniority in the labour market, to do so independently of the spouse's income, as was the case in other similar areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150433	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150435	Thank you. I'm just thinking that you don't decide for yourself whether you get sick or whether you end up in a situation where early retirement is the right solution. It's just to give an example and I think the minister agrees with me on that. That is why I just want to hear the Minister: is there not an interest in trying to look at this balance that I hear the Minister talking about? Is it possible that the Minister might be a little more specific as to where the balance would then be? That's one thing. The second point is: what does the Minister think it will mean for people not to be made financially dependent on their partner?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150511	As I have said several times, we are always willing to discuss the right balance sheets, and this is also a balance between different considerations. On the one hand, we think it is right that, in our welfare system, we target benefits for those who have the greatest needs, and that is why we also need to look at the overall family economy when we measure that need. On the other hand, we are also aware of the fact that excessive restrictions are imposed, for example. in relation to the offsetting of income from work for the other spouse, it can indirectly encourage the other spouse to stop working and the balance between those considerations we are always willing to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150557	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150559	Thank you for your speech, Minister. In fact, I had a legitimate hope that this could be achieved today, also because we are responding to all the arguments put forward by the government against this proposal at the previous readings. We have a really, really fine funding in place that takes money from some of the big companies that do not pay taxes in Denmark, plus that we have a wealth of dynamic effects that will also lead to derived savings that can finance it. We have solved the problem of pensioners who are getting less because of this, by simply not reducing the common income allowance. We can still let them take advantage of each other's deductions, just as you can on other incomes. Finally, the government has said that we must concentrate the resources we have on the poorest income groups. Well, that's exactly what we're doing here by removing partner dependency and the regulations from the lowest incomes. So where's the government's argument not to support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150654	I think I have explained in several discussions both here in Parliament and in consultation, and indeed also in my reply to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, that we in the government are not clear between the two points of balance where, on the one hand, we basically believe that there is some form of spouse dependency, where it is also targeted according to needs, and, on the other hand, there must of course also be a sufficient incentive for the spouse to take additional work. In addition, there is the argument that Mr. Torsten Gejl overlooks, in view of the fact that the motion for a resolution is also aimed at abolishing dependence on cash benefits recipients, that we have said very clearly that we await the recommendations of the Commission on benefits before deciding on any changes in that part of the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150755	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150757	I don't quite understand the whole balance thing. I think that is a rather strange answer to a fairly clear question. But okay, if the argument is that you don't want to bring the cash aid recipients now, then we'll see how we get them with us. But then it is on the flat hand to lift the partner-dependent restrictions and regulations for pensioners and early retirement. We can do it today. We're in the Folketing. We're in charge here. We can do it in this floor. We can do it today. Why is the government sitting on its hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150830	Sir. Torsten Gejl claims that the government is sitting on its hands. That's sir. Torsten Gejl, who has tabled a motion for a resolution on which the attitude of the government will be heard. After all, we have not promised anyone, either before the elections, after the elections or in the many discussions we have had, that we had as a programme point to abolish this one to one in the way that Mr. Torsten Gejl wants to do it. What we say on the other hand, and that is a response to Mr. Torsten Gejl is that there is certainly imbalance in the way it works today, as we are willing to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150903	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Employment. Then we start with the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415150915	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I am not surprisingly in complete agreement with the Minister and the Minister's observations on the motion for a resolution which is before us. What is perhaps a little important, as the introduction also says, is that this is based on the principles of mutual dependency. This has, of course, been explained here, and so there are two elements to this when we talk about early retirement and pensions for cash benefits. And I think I just have to stress that it may be disappointing for the authors of the motion that, in terms of the principle, we still maintain the principle of mutual responsibility towards each other in relation to the family. It's also kind of a question of targeting, you might say, the help and support we have to give in this society. And there it is, of course, that it is based on these principles that everyone who can and has the skills should contribute. We can say that we are dependent on this if we are to be able to maintain a strong security system in which we ensure that there is a link for those people who, for one reason or another, cannot support themselves. So it can be said that it is a little bit about the right and duty in this regard. And that means that it requires some priorities. And there is the fact that we in the Social Democratic Party believe that the benefits should be targeted at those who have the least and who need the most support. So I understand that when you make the mutual dependent and you make up the total income, it is not because you are in any way wealthy compared to this, but a calculation has been made of what you have overall available in this connection. As I mentioned, the Minister has also mentioned that we should at least remember to have separated these two things, where there are, after all, some possibilities for deduction when we talk about pensions, about this, and there it is dependent on the income of the spouse or collector. The day before yesterday we had the discussion about going in and ensuring that there was at least no set-off compared to the extra work that was around the Corona and where it showed that it could of course be done in connection with this, but we also thought it was a special situation. That is why, of course, we are also pleased that we have reached an agreement in the area that corrects it. As far as cash benefits are concerned, it is also important, I think, to stress here that cash benefits are a temporary benefit. It is not intended to receive cash benefits for several years, and I think that is also part of the story of this. In other words, it is a temporary benefit because you cannot support yourself. And that is why I think it makes good sense to take account of the financial situation of any spouse, because we continue to believe that it is an advantage to be two on the basis of remuneration. So even if the authors of the motion for a resolution want to put an end to the idea that the benefits should be dependent on the income base of the household as a whole, we do not believe in the Social Democrats that this is a viable path today, and that is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled here either. And like the Minister, I would like to say that we are working towards the Service Commission, and there it is going to be a little exciting to see what the results bring about this. So, of course, we will also look at that with great excitement from our side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151310	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151315	Thank you. When you look at what it will have to influence Gini, this is one of the best proposals I have seen for a long time in terms of reducing income inequality in our society. If we look at some of the lowest income groups, it's true for the 10%. The poorest in the world, for example, are the poorest in the world. the cash assistance system, that you got more than 1,000 kroner. extra hand. For the 10%. This will mean that you will receive more than DKr 1 000. in the hand. The same is true if you look at the 20%. poorest. It is clearly a proposal which will mean that some of those who have the very least would actually get something more in their hands. In relation to the argument that it is not something based on mutual dependents, that is, that the regulation of benefits is not based on those principles, it does not make sense. Then income should have been given on the basis of a lump sum. It was supposed to be the way you put it in. That's because the idea behind this is based on the principles of mutual dependents. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: what benefits would the rapporteur have from changing the way in which benefits are regulated?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151428	I have such a little doubt as to what exactly is meant in relation to the question, but that you drop the regulation, is that what is meant, in other words, in relation to this benefit? Well, this is again a matter of looking at the total income in relation to the family that is. There I think there are some OK principles in the way it is built up today. I can see that the advantage is that there are some people who get some more money in their hands. It can be said that this is a laudable wish, but in the end, as has also been described, it is also an economic issue, that is to say, who and what and how we should give priority to the resources we have. It can be said that the proposal made in relation to revenue is not something in which we, on the part of the Social Democrats, go in and say that this is something we are doing tomorrow. So there's a bill that somewhere also has to be paid around this. There is the fact that, in relation to the general debate on welfare, we are saying that there are therefore also some priorities to be made here. That doesn't necessarily mean that this is the first thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151527	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151529	Thank you. But does the rapporteur not also think that there are some other things that would benefit from this proposal? There has just been a statement on equality, I know, and does not the rapporteur think that this would actually be a good step in terms of autonomy, economic autonomy? Is it not also one of the things the rapporteur would think was a good thing and an advantage in doing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151555	But that is where we are left by the principle of saying that it is fair to become addicted to another person? And you just have to say, when you get married, that's what happens. And when you live together in relation to having a common household around this, you are dependent on each other both humanly, you in and for yourself also economically, where you say that we consider this to be a unit and not necessarily just the individual, but the total economy around this. I think there is something reasonable about that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151623	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151626	Thank you. It is quite true that cash benefits should be a transitional benefit. It shouldn't be a permanent place to be. That has been said, for the last five years I have been in the Folketing, first by the government before this and now by the Socialist Government. Some governments have not succeeded in making it a temporary benefit. I mean, people are on cash for years. But how can the fact that people are on cash benefits for many years justify the fact that they should also be drawn into mutual dependents?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151658	I don't know if I understand the reasoning in relation to this. In other words, it is a general problem in terms of cash benefits and the cash assistance system that we are not able to solve the problem of getting out of this temporary exercise, and I think that is a discussion in itself and something that we have to resolve. I agree that it is not necessarily a simple task to do so, but I do not think that this is an argument to say that, since some people are stuck in cash aid, they are not bound by the principle of mutual support. I just don't buy it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151736	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151737	But it was the rapporteur himself who mentioned it. It was the rapporteur himself who mentioned it in his speech, in other words that cash aid should be a temporary transitional arrangement. But that is not the case, and that is not the reason why we can then be exposed to mutual dependents just because we have to spend 10 or 20 or 30 years on cash benefits, or how long the longest is there. That's why you could say that all right, let it go, we'll solve that another day. But there are also pensioners and early retirement workers for whom we could solve this. They feel like a financial burden hanging around a boyfriend's neck. Isn't it unfair that people should be walking around in that indignity? We are even talking about the lowest incomes, often sick people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151818	I still think that we have a discussion about cash benefits and how we ensure that at least we do not get stuck in the system that is there. That has never been the intention, and we must, in fact, continue to work on it. I still maintain that the principles that we have built up around this, with reciprocity in relation to the families who are here, I think there is something reasonable in relation to having a distributional discussion and, as such, doing so in relation to those who are most in need of it here. So I actually think it's a good way to set it up. Then we can discuss some adjustments, as the Minister said, but basically to change this, I don't think it's going to stay with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151902	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415151916	Thank you. I would like to begin by saying that I understand that, as a citizen, one is primarily concerned with one's own economy and its situation, that is perfectly understandable and natural. That is why I also understand if you think it can be a pity to be covered by mutual dependants. We, as politicians, have the task of thinking about how best to help as many people as possible and get as much as possible for citizens' tax dollars. That is why we in the Left also believe that we are concerned, as a starting point, with a society in which we are organized in such a way that the benefits we pay are measured according to needs and that this is the best basis. We do so for three main reasons. Firstly, it is healthy for our welfare societies to target the greatest aid to those people who need it most. And when you live with someone else who has an income... it can be big, it can be bigger... then you don't have the same need as if you're a single parent. Secondly, we actually think it is quite reasonable that you help to support yourself and yours when you have an income, so that as a society we can help more people and target aid to those who need it most. However, in the Left, we have also been involved in making initiatives in recent years to improve conditions in the primary pension system, particularly targeted at pensioners or early retirement pensioners who are married or cohabiting. We took the initiative back in 2019 with the 2019 Finance Law Agreement, in the Senior Pensions Agreement and also in the "Agreements for several years on the labour market" back to memory in 2018. So we have put in place measures that have regulated and turned the screws when it comes to finding the balance, ensuring that it is worthwhile to work and ensuring that you have to support yourself and yours. So the motion for a resolution here, which we are debating today, on the total abolition of the benefit regime for cash benefit recipients, early retirement pensioners and pensioners, by means of a bill to be tabled in the current parliamentary year, cannot be accepted by the Left. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152223	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to be made, first to Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152227	Thanks for the speech. Yes, the Left has helped to create value for these groups, which we also mention, and which is what we are talking about today, and the Left was, in fact, responsible for getting a resolution through here the other day, which exempts the so-called Corona heroes' partners from these set-offs, and then the Left's rapporteur tasted a bit of the joy that one gets when it actually succeeds in creating values and legislating, even if one is not in government. Now the Left has a certain power on the platform in relation to perhaps helping to create value for some of these groups; it could be the pensioners, many of whom vote for the Left, it could be the early retirementists. Now the rapporteur says that the rapporteur will not completely abolish these intergovernmental compensatory measures. Is there any part of the compensatory measures that the rapporteur would help to abolish so that perhaps we could meet today to relax it for some of these groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152337	We have to keep looking at whether we have found the right balance here. Because in the Left we are concerned to ensure that it is worthwhile to work, but we are also concerned that we in the family, because we also see the family as a unit, are also obliged to support ourselves and ours before reaching out and asking for help from the public. This means that we have to keep looking at these balances, and if we go back 5-10 years, we're going to see that they weren't right, otherwise we wouldn't have changed it. Now we have changed this a number of times, and we must continue to look at that in the future, but to stand here today and say that this specific group of pensioners must be helped, I do not want to be a part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152439	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152441	Now we have seen large signs where the Left advertises that we should not make a tax hammer of 70%. marginal tax for families, for example. the pensioners; the rapporteur stands and maintains a marginal tax on top tax for thousands of Danish families. Does the Left really mean it seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152504	Our proposal to make sure that nurses, drivers and others out there wanted to contribute both last year and this year to our getting through the crisis, we stand by. That is also why we adopted the legislation on Tuesday. And yes, then we recognize that we must ensure that work is worthwhile, but also that we must support ourselves and ours, and that is why we must continue to look at whether we have the right balance sheets and that is what the Left is saying today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152544	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152547	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur reiterates some of the arguments about seeing the family as a unit. And I'm actually a little curious about the rapporteur's comment on the balance sheet........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But do you not think that there might actually be an opportunity here to put some action behind the words, in relation to not being made dependent on your family in this way, but actually getting something about autonomy as an individual? Will the rapporteur share some of the thoughts on the balances in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152642	What I am saying is going to be a bit of a repetition, but I have noted from the resolution that the total abolition of the benefit regulation here is Enhedslisten's response to ending social control. That is not the Left's answer. The Left's answer is that we need to do something much more targeted to put an end to the social control that exists in Denmark. We are opposed to it. We must do something about this, but we do not believe that the solution is this proposal to abolish the system of benefits altogether.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152714	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152715	But the rapporteur did not answer my question, and it is to distort the debate to make it sound like this was the only proposal. This is one of the proposals and one of the reasons why it is a good proposal is that it is not just talk; it is quite specific: you are made financially independent, you are made autonomous and you have a freedom to actually act and act yourself so that you do not have to ask for money from someone else and be made financially dependent on someone else in this way. So will the rapporteur not allow us a little into the deliberations of the Left on these balances?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152750	Well, I think I have explained that we should follow this closely, and I have also mentioned the examples where we have been talking about them in recent years, because we are concerned that working should also be worthwhile. And we would like to pursue that track, even in relation to families where there is set-off today. That is why we would like to make it clear from the Left that we would like to continue to discuss it, but in relation to standing here today and promising the support of the Left for the total abolition of the benefit regulation, I would say: the Left does not go that far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152825	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415152846	Thank you for that, President. Now we have heard both the Social Democrats and the Left and the Minister on this matter. I will try to stick to what the proposal is about. As I read it, and the authors of the motion for a resolution must correct me if I have misunderstood it, the proposal is that there should be no set-off in either cash benefits, early retirement or old-age pensions as a result of the spouse's or collector's income. As such, it has nothing to do with the pension, but the income a spouse may earn from being on the labour market, or it may be something about an insurance payment in connection with an occupational injury. Now it is the case that the Danish People's Party, during the financial negotiations in 2019, was granted an increase in the basic deduction for the amount of set-off due to the income of the spouse or collector. That was what came to apply to the Finance Act 2019 and it was further raised in the autumn. It's 122,500 kroner. Today. What we are talking about here is whether we can do more to eliminate the set-off that is being made on account of the income of spouses or couples from the labour market. There is the Danish People's Party very positive. We then have a problem with this because you have brought with you cash aid recipients, and we have a different attitude to that because it has something to do with what the Constitution says: if you cannot support yourself or yours, you can get cash assistance. That is where you have the mutual dependent. The second is the set-off system. So if you could pull the recipients of cash benefits out of this proposal, the Danish People's Party is very positive about removing the set-off that happens because of the income of the spouse or collector. It may also be own income because there are some who can work alongside and have a taxable income. We are very positive about seeing if we can get it removed. Then we have another amount, and some new calculations have to be made on it. The funding has also been proposed by the proposers. The funding is not immediately something that frightens me, but it is, of course, something that we need to look at a little more closely. I don't have to stand here and promise anything about funding. Of course, I have to talk to my financial rapporteur and the party as such about whether this is something we can agree to, but we should be able to find funding for it in any case. So, to put it another way: if you could withdraw cash benefits recipients, so that it is only about pensioners and early retirement, then the Danish People's Party is actually in on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153156	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153202	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted and Dansk Folkeparti for clear speech in supporting that you can do so for pensioners. I think we also have an outstanding one which we do not resolve with this resolution and which is general, for example. current compensations paid to you and some other things where you can get set off in your benefit. So my one question is whether the Danish People's Party will also help try to look at that part and ensure that we resolve it. It's a little wider than just this problem, because those in resource sequences are also affected by it, etc. So it is a slightly bigger problem, which involves more than just the groups mentioned here. I am, of course, sorry that the Danish People's Party will not take the cash aid recipients with it. But will the Danish People's Party then perhaps help raise the limit of when it is considered that one can support oneself and one's. Because it's pretty fast, the spouse loses all his cash benefits. So will the Danish People's Party help to look at raising that level?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153307	I do not have a mandate to take a position on this here today. This is something we need to discuss first in the group. There I think we will point out that the government has set up a service commission and that we will see what comes there before we say anything final about it. Because this is another discussion we are discussing here. I would like to deal directly with what the motion for a resolution is about: set-off on account of income from work. We think it is quite wrong that, if you take a job, you are set off against the spouse's or partner's income. Because it also has something to do with the supply of labour. If you do not have that set-off, there are also many more people who would like to take some extra work. It is of great importance and the government should see it as something positive and say: we are removing this; the money comes back in because then there are some who work more. I believe, in fact, that if we remove the set-off for income from work, a large part of what it costs to remove it will come back in by the fact that there are so many more people taking extra work when there is no set-off in the spouse's early retirement or retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153416	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153417	I think that's right. I also think there are many who have fallen in love with someone, have a boyfriend that they actually dare to move in with, and that may make some others get their home. I think there can be a lot of good dynamic effects by actually doing something about these things. But then I will finish by asking something else. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that there will be negotiations about a little in connection with the recommendations of the Service Commission. There will also be negotiations on second-generation reforms, and there are negotiations on how we can strengthen employment so that there will be more opportunities to raise this issue. Will the Danish People's Party help bring some of these cases into the negotiating room?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153456	We do not yet know whether we will be invited to these negotiations. We do not actually know that, nor have we seen what comes from the Service Commission. Of course, how the government will act in the context of negotiations I shall not be able to say anything about, but if we are invited, we will, of course, come up and discuss this. Then I have to say something about moving in with an early retirement pensionist, who has also been mentioned. Before I entered the Folketing, I moved with an early retirementist, and there we didn't look at what benefits or anything else were. It was love that brought us together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153532	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153535	Yes, and that is the love we work for in this Chamber today. However, my questions ran out as the rapporteur gave wise answers. So, of course, we feel very much that we want to cooperate with the Danish People's Party to free pensioners and early retirement workers from these cohabitants-dependent regulations, and we are, of course, still fighting away from the recipients of cash benefits, but it will probably be in another circle. So I just want to say thank you so much for a good speech and some good answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153606	Well, it's nice to be able to add Mr. Chandler. Torsten Gejl such a bit of joy here at the end of the afternoon. It's not always that it happens, but it's been so successful today, so you're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153618	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153621	Yeah, you have to be careful about breaking the good mood here, and I'll see if I can hold it. I was just a little worried when I heard the rapporteur say that he did not have much concern about funding, which is 1.8 billion. kr. After rewinding, which must be taken directly from the business community and make business more expensive. So that's just it, and I heard there that he said that you didn't have much concern about that funding. I just need to confirm there whether you have it or whether you agree that this is a good way of financing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153649	I think that, if I remember correctly, I said that it is now a long time ago, after all, it is a few minutes ago that I said that we in the Danish People's Party, in terms of how and how it is with the funding, should just have a talk about it in the party. I need to talk to my financial rapporteur before we look at it. It may also be that there can be another financing • I will not reject that • but we are ready to look at this with folk pensioners and early retirement, and to remove the set-off because of the income from work. But what funding should finally be, I have not said, and I have not agreed to this, but I have said that we are ready to look at it. But I need to talk to my financial rapporteur. Of course, we need to talk about it in the party before we say yes to anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153729	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153731	I'm a little comforted when you talk to the finance officer. Because the expression used by the rapporteur is that it does not frighten me. I just think that we have the world's highest tax burden, and additional taxes and taxes on business are at least something that scares me as a citizen. Well, then I'm glad you say that you should have just passed it by. I think that would be sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153750	Anyway, we've seen how much money the government has spent in recent years, and the money this costs is a small drop in the ocean compared to what the government has spent in the past. We could, of course, take away the room for manoeuvre, and we have to say that many of these people who are affected with regard to retirement pensions and early retirement have themselves helped to create this room for manoeuvre in their time on the labour market. So it doesn't scare me that they should have it. But where you finally find the money, we just need to talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153826	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party. Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415153838	I would like to thank the Enhedslisten and the Alternative for tabling the motion for a resolution, thereby keeping the debate on the situation of pensioners and cash benefit recipients at a standstill. Corona's been good for something. In fact, it has been a kind of stimulant of injustices in society. The pensions for partners' work have always been deeply unfair, but the penalty for taking extra guards on top of the epidemic opened many people's eyes, and indeed many politicians' eyes in this Chamber. And that's why we decide to release so-called corona-related work for set-off. That's good, but it's far from good enough. I hope that it was only the first baby steps on a longer journey that could lead to justice for pensioners. There is now a hole in the wall, and we can see the country on the other side. That is why the SF supports the motion for a resolution as a good point of reference, but only as a point of reference. Because the proposal also contains elements for which we are not ready, right now, to give top priority. Families, one of whom is retired, get considerably less out of work over a certain amount than other families. The same work, the same income, but with very different value depending on whether one is retired or not. That doesn't make any sense at all. We hear so often loudly moaning from the right about the payment of top taxes. In this situation, however, it is mostly a matter of ordinary workers' families paying 70%. to society, and here, strangely enough, there is not so much moaning from the right. On top of that, we must put the increased uncertainty and insecurity around how many bills the public sends and on what amounts. The soldier veteran Lars, whom I have talked to, is hard hit by ptsd and told me about the extra stress he experienced with uncertainty about family income, where the partner works as a cleaning assistant. Kirsten, who is a nurse and has a partner on early retirement, told about the year when her family received a bill of DKK 17,000 in December. As a starting point, the SF is in favour of seeing each citizen as self-employed, and this is already the case today when it comes to unemployment benefits, sickness benefits, resource development benefits, occupational pensions and SU. SF is a financially responsible party and we give the limited resources our priority. If we had a bottomless money tank, we would like to implement the entire package presented here by Enhedslisten and the Alternative. Unfortunately, however, economic reality does not look like that. We want to start with early retirement, and this is indeed a proposal that the SF has put forward in the past, since that pension is directly instead of a wage income. At the same time, but at least as a priority number two, pensioners must be freed from set-off. For pensioners, the set-off in relation to the partner's income starts already around DKK 220,000. We think that is a very low amount, and we could start by adjusting that limit upwards so that income dependency will decrease. For the recipients of cash benefits, the situation is a little more complex. Income dependence on cash benefit recipients is starting today at a ridiculously low level. As I recall, it already starts when the partner earns twice cash benefits, and that is where we are down in such small amounts when you already lose your income, i.e. cash benefits. Property limitation of DKK 10,000 doesn't make much sense either. Here we need to look at a fairer basis for a possible start of reduction. By the way, I'm imagining a phase-in over a period of time. However, if we simply abolish the partner dependency of cash aid recipients in a hurry, then this will create some dilemmas. To a certain extent, this will reduce the incentive to join an unemployment fund when you can receive 80% without prior employment relationship and membership of an unemployment fund. 60 per cent of the daily subsistence allowance, for non-parents and even less for young people. However, this will certainly lead to some citizens calculating what is best worthwhile and will thus opt out of the 'A' box. As I have already explained, the motion for a resolution contains a number of purely SF policies which we will have implemented as soon as possible. But there are also elements about which we are unsolved and therefore want to be examined further. And then there are parts that we are rather sceptical about, as the consequences for the cashiers and thus for our model for the labour market can be quite negative. SF is a financially responsible party and has therefore made a priority. However, we support the proposal as it puts the right bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154329	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154333	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I am pleased with the support and also expected that the SF would support it, because I think we have had a good cooperation in pushing for this. Most recently, SF has had an important role in raising matters in the Ekstra Bladet, but it could also be mentioned many other contexts where we push for it together. I am a little sad that we cannot agree that we should do everything at the same time. With regard to the argument in relation to the A-boxes, I think that in some way it might be a bit of a journey towards the bottom. Well, we agree in the SF and Enhedslisten that we need to strengthen the daily allowance, that we need to improve the daily allowance and stop cutting off the daily allowance. Would it not be better to ensure that the benefits are so good that they can speak for themselves, if one can put it that way, and that it should not be the case that people feel forced into the benefit system because otherwise they simply risk being left with 0 DKK. on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154438	Yes, I can follow some of the points made by Mrs Victoria Velasquez, but we just have to decide: what is the situation today? And we cannot find in our economic priorities the total amount for this. There we expect, a little bit realistically, I think, to go into it and say: what is the most important thing, and who is it that can be said immediately here and now is the hardest hit? Then we do the analysis that we say that where early retirement takes the direct place of a wage income and it can be unprepared you have no idea when it will happen. However, as I said, it can be at the same time, but otherwise as soon as possible and possibly through phasing-in, including in relation to pensioners. However, predicting when you are going to have a retirement pension is somewhat easier than predicting when you are going to have an early retirement pension. However, I would like to maintain that we will have a challenge for our cashiers if the proposal that is on the table now is implemented and I very much do not want to see any weakening of our cashiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154535	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154536	I still don't quite agree with the "A" thing, but let it be. I am sure that we basically agree that we need to strengthen the daily allowance, but also create a good safety net. Then I just want to ask you a question about the early retirementists. I agree that it can be difficult to save up for your retirement pension when you are on an early retirement pension if you have little to do well with. What opportunities does the rapporteur see in the future to raise the claim for early retirement and not to regulate income there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154613	Well, fortunately we have a rope where Enhedslisten and SF are pulling in the same direction. We have one, I think, somewhat rebellious government, which is why it is good that there are more of us pulling the rope to make it understand how important it is for us to give the early retirement workers in this country fair conditions. It is quite clear that out of all the people in society, these families, one of whom is on early retirement, are being charged 70%. Back to the state. I'm a huge supporter of top taxes for those people who have high incomes, but hitting these families so hard makes no sense. So I would actually just like to say this on every occasion and next time we will have to be talking about labour supply reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154655	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154657	Thanks for the speech. We are almost all actually very, very much in agreement. I also see that there is a point about the benefit. There's a huge erosion of the daily allowance. We have to fight against that. I am a little afraid that if we make it an argument not to let the recipients of cash benefits get away from their mutual dependants, it will be a bit of a race to the bottom. So it's a little bit about intensifying the second fight. However, I should just like to hear the rapporteur on funding: did I understand correctly that the rapporteur does not think that there is enough funding to implement this? We have actually financed the proposal completely. On top of that, there can be a lot of dynamic effects. I should like to hear some of the rapporteur's concerns about funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154740	The funding proposed here is excellent funding. We just want to spend the money a little differently. So when I said that there is no funding in it, it is based on SF's priorities. We want to vouch for being a financially responsible party, and if we give it the full screw by spending so much money here and now in this area, we will simply lack money in our accounts for the other things for which we would really like to find money, including the daily allowances that we mentioned before, which have, after all, been totally poor compared to the average wage income. So there are a number of other places where SF would like to spend money, and then we say that in that account we can't find this amount right now. This financing itself is fine. We've included it ourselves just for use by other things. But we agree that the unemployment allowance is a huge challenge for us. There are also some things that are connected. It is not just the economy of the individual family, but it is also the fact that one of the foundations of our flexible and dynamic labour market is being tampered with, namely that we have a reasonable degree of security after all. I just think it is an expression of the SF's wish to give priority to the limited resources that we have access to in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154839	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154841	That is fair enough and well explained. But do I understand it correctly, namely that the SF supports this proposal, and if it came to the vote in the Chamber as it stands now, would the SF vote green for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154854	Yes, we will vote for it. Because, as I said, the proposal contains several things, and there are things that we, as I explained, are not here and now so enthusiastic about, but, on the other hand, it is the right direction. It puts the right direction, it's holed in the wall, and we can see the country on the other side, and in the country on the other side of this wall, this is an excellent pointer to go for. There are some things in what we think should be given priority first, and they are early retirement right after the pensioners. However, I am very sceptical about the things with the cash aid recipients, but it can also be done through a major analysis of who we expect to join in the system and how much impact this will have on the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154929	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415154944	Thank you very much. With this motion for a resolution, we need to enter into a more or less fundamental discussion, in relation to whether, when we organise politics, we should look at the individual or the family. The question you kind of ask yourself is: To what extent is it that a cohabitant should answer for his or her partner? After all, this is an issue which has been raised by several rapporteurs here. It contains some balances and considerations which may be quite interesting. I and the Radical Left believe that the family should be seen as a unit, and that is why we should also support the family as a unit. It also means that when I talk to people who experience not being able to live together, or experience that there is no incentive to take work or extra hours at work, it doesn't quite agree with it that we have to support the family. After all, what was originally intended for set-off rules and mutual dependants is that if you are on public support and have a spouse who has a fortune or a salary that makes it easy to support your partner, then there is also a degree of reasonableness in providing for your partner. But again, I have met and talked to several who experience that it is really difficult. And then we're back to balance. In the Radical Left, we think it is reasonable that there should be a certain degree of interdependence; that there should be some set-off rules. But we are also ready to look at how this could be arranged differently, so that there is not this low incentive to put some more hours on the labour market or to take a job at all that we are facing there are challenges for now. That is the message that we have today and that we also had with us when we dealt with a citizens' proposal that was very similar to this one. One of the things we saw and dealt with here a few days ago was in relation to the case of corona, where there are many people who we are asking to put extra effort into the labour market. That bill came from an agreement that the Radical Left was included in, because in a particularly extraordinary situation, like a majority in the Folketing, we were prepared to say also that we should not be penalised financially. But we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155256	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155300	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I have asked the rapporteur in the past about the resolution adopted at the annual meeting of the Radical Left and was also given the answer that there is not always any agreement between the parliamentary group and the annual meeting, but I also hear in this speech that the rapporteur is open to look at it. In relation to employment, to which the rapporteur refers, we also saw in L 19 that it was not a total abolition, like the one we are proposing, but that it was a relief, there are others who have previously referred to it, and there I have received the answer that it increased employment by over 250 full-time people, so relaxations can also easily push something forward. I would therefore like to ask the Radical Left who might be interested in exempting or relaxing the rules. If you should try to be a little concrete about who you want to exempt or relax the rules against, how could it be linked? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155405	We call it a national meeting when the whole party gathers, not an annual meeting. But it is true that at our national meeting we have adopted a resolution which actually deals with this issue, and that resolution also shows these balances, because one of the things contained in that resolution is that the Radical Left believes that it is right for spouses and cohabitants to have a responsibility for each other. I am, in fact, fully aware of the fact that some employment and labour supply can be accompanied by this, and that is also why, in my speech, I actually stress that there are some people who are totally losing the incentive to enter the labour market or extra hours. So we're clear about that. But I do not want to stand here pointing out some groups over others. The minister mentioned that the Service Commission makes its recommendations. There are several who have mentioned this, and it may be that such things as this come up in the discussions and we are constructively working on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155511	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155513	Thank you. I also asked the question because the rapporteur himself referred to it in his speech. When you don't want to put your head on the block and say you're going 100 percent. in favour of these things, I just want to ask you what kind of things you could be positive about. Will it, for example? could be lifting the bottom allowance or looking at where the limit should be, e.g. so that not only does the spouse make twice as much as a cash benefit, but he gets $2.? Is that something that Radicals would be positive about looking at?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155550	There are several ways to do this, and I am not going to say yes or no to individual or specific things. It is actually just an indication from this that we agree that there are some challenges. I have personally spoken to some people who are facing these challenges, and it is on our shoulders to include it in some discussions, and we in the Radical Left are open to looking at how to organise it differently, so that people also have an incentive to take a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155625	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155628	I really miss some small grain, too. The rapporteur has a national resolution in his back that something must be done, as far as I understand, about the spouse-dependent compensatory measures. But what and with what reservations and how and how can the rapporteur not come up with anything? I mean, is there anything in that resolution that wants anything at all? The rapporteur says that Radicals would like to look at it, would like to work on it, but do radicals just sit down and wait until the rest of us bring something that can be said 'yes' or 'no' to? Is there some kind of idea of which groups, in what way, what funding? After all, there is a resolution of the national meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155719	Yes, there is a resolution of the national meeting, that is correct. As I have also said to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, the resolution of the national meeting focuses on the issue that arises here, but it also focuses on the fact that spouses and cohabitants have a responsibility for each other. And that is the position of the Radical Left, and that is what I am saying here today from the platform. And we want to help to see whether the system can be set up differently, so that people should not have an incentive to participate in the labour market at all, because the whole idea has originally been that if you have a partner who has a fortune or a salary that can support, it is actually reasonable to expect it from the family as a unit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155813	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155814	Yes, it is. It just sounds a little like there's a resolution that says a little bit of one and a little of the other, and then it goes up, and then it turns into nothing. I cannot understand why there is no plan of any kind, no idea of who might have to get rid of these compensatory measures first. Which way is it going?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155840	But I am not going to say that from here, i.e. what specific groups are involved or what concrete measures should be taken in relation to this issue. In his speech, the Minister put forward the idea that there is a Services Commission sitting and watching, for example. The system of cash aid and the recommendations from there will be called for some discussion, and that is where we in the Radical Left are working constructively as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155905	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Mads Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415155926	Thank you. I'm sorry I was just sleeping, I thought there was one before me. I will start by saying that I can promise that it will not be quite the same speech as last Tuesday, when we discussed a matter which is somewhat similar to this one, but I can also start by promising that there will probably be a few repetitions. In the Conservative People's Party, as I said the other day, we are wary that the mutual dependent is a matter of fairness. It is our fundamental view that we must support ourselves and our loved ones before going to the community and asking for money. In other words, those who can do it themselves must. It's a nice, healthy conservative value. On the other hand, we also fully acknowledge that it is frustrating for some citizens to be drawn into their income. I am also one of those who has met people who have been sad and unhappy about it when I was already elected chairman of the labour market committee at home in Køge as a very young person, and I could at least feel it there too. However, we still believe that the most just thing is that those who have the least are given the most, and that is why the mutual dependent is important, because it ensures that those who most need financial support also receive the greatest help. If we then divide it up a little, we can say that cash benefits are a benefit for those who cannot manage themselves, and that also means that if your spouse or partner has a fortune that you can live on, you are not entitled to receive cash benefits as an additional income for the private economy. I am also one of those who is looking forward to, and I am also pleased that the Minister mentioned this, the comments of the Service Commission. I shall learn all these fine terms and what will later come to the field of cash assistance in general, because I do agree with Mr. Torsten Gejl in that there are places in our cash assistance system that people have been trapped for too many years, and perhaps in reality also belong to a different service than the one they are on. I think that is an exciting discussion to get into, and I look forward to it. However, I can also say that, as far as I am concerned, Conservative employment policy is one of the things I have now entered into and have to renew and rethink, and one of the things we are going to be actively involved in is that it is quite short: it is about reducing this group of people, in other words getting more people into work, and that will be our first priority, and I think we should use the powder to discuss that, and I look forward to it. To conclude, I would like to say that the interdependence ensures that financial support is given priority to those who are unable to cope with themselves, and that is why we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160155	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160159	I mean, I know how the Conservative People's Party complains loudly on every occasion that high-paid people actually pay top taxes. See, here we are dealing with ordinary employees' families, where 70% will be paid to a large extent. Back to the state. I've asked Mr. Mads Andersen about it before, and all I achieved in this regard was pure backswimming and empty talk. I would very much like a clear answer from the Conservatives today. Now that you are so concerned about the importance of the top tax, what do you think about the fact that here there are quite ordinary employees' families, which I believe actually pay 70%??
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160233	Thank you. I'm gonna start by saying that I don't actually swim very well, but then I'm gonna have to let Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge help assess. I would say this: I think it might be a bit a strawman to call it a 70% payment. I mean, honey, at least. So to compare it directly to the top tax, I certainly find it difficult. It is really a matter of offsetting, and I think this is only right and proper if you have a spouse who can help finance and pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160259	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160300	Yes, beer too, beer behind, but the sausage retains the same taste. It may be that it is not tax, but it is money that you pay back to the state because you are in the unfortunate situation that you have to hand over 70% of the work immediately and with the same income, but where you have a partner who is retired. to the state. How can this be in harmony with the usual jam of the Conservative People's Party that you pay too much in taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160324	Yes, thank you. I will try to repeat without swimming. I really think that this discussion should be about getting more people in this group away from cash benefits and away from public support and into the labour market. And I would very much like us to go further into a discussion about this and spend much more gunpowder on how to create a better labour market for those who are the furthest away, and also for those who are at the last and oldest part of our workforce.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160349	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160350	But you don't get away from transfer income when it's not worthwhile to work through these interplay-dependent compensatory measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160407	I am not sure that I fully understood what the question was, but I would like to repeat that if, with any help from the public sector, we can do that companies, whether large or small, can have more people who are longer from the labour market, in employment, perhaps for a little less hours and in some jobs that cut something that looks like flex jobs and other onboard jobs, I think that is something we should look into. But I still think it must be right and proper to look at a family, and that is where I am very much in favour of the fact that as a society we look at the family as a unit and not so much at the individual • I have heard several rapporteurs say that, and I am glad to hear that the mutual dependent must be a perfectly natural part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160452	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160454	Well, for example, if you... If you want to work overtime, you want to work overtime or you want to work, and you just get set off, you can't pay very well to work. After all, this is not an incentive to take work when it is the case that the partner is just being pulled into service. Well, that logic must be Conservative. It is the first, and the second, that I find it difficult to understand what the rapporteur says about mutual dependents: how does mutual dependants ensure that those who have the least are given the most?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160530-2	First of all, and now I have to do it quickly, I am quite sure that Mr. Torsten Gejl has read our Finance Act, where we among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I also told you about all this on Tuesday. On the other hand, I would say that there I just lost the suck, I was saying. I do not remember the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160558	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then I was a little quick and skipped the Enhedslisten's rapporteur because normally it is the case that the rapporteurs of the proposers are going to round, but you can split up your speaking time, and the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has asked for that. So here you go, Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415160622	Thank you. One of the fundamental principles that drives me is the fight for us to have good, safe, free lives. You must meet with respect and dignity, even if you are affected by illness or unemployment. We should not have a society where you are sent begging with your hat in your hand and humiliated. No, we must have a community that makes each other stronger and ensure that social events do not lead to economic or social delusions, and we must ensure that a fair standard of living can be maintained even when we grow old. And in that vision it is clear that you should not be made financially dependent on your partner, instead economic autonomy must be guaranteed. However, despite the liberation of women, the struggle to have a welfare society and other rebellions, we have continued to frame in our legislation that today we can end up being made financially dependent on our partner. The regulation of benefits, based on the principles of mutual dependency, still applies despite several relaxations over the years, concessions that we have supported in the Enhedslisten, but now we propose, together with the alternative, that we abolish benefit regulation on the basis of spouse's or partner's income once and for all. In fact, many people are not aware of the fact that in Denmark pensioners and sick people who have had an early retirement because of serious illness and who cannot work, but who do not yet have the financial autonomy that we often pay tribute to, and are made financially dependent on their roommates or spouses, and in the same way with cash benefits, that there are more who are made dependent on the spouse. For some, the benefits are already so low that there is no possibility of more than survival, and saving up to old age or being able to pay unforeseen costs is simply not an option. And when we look at how this will change the difference in income inequality, and when we look at how it will secure some of those with the lowest incomes more than $1,000, I know it's a place where $1,000. makes a really, really big difference. Therefore, it also means that more people are pushed into having to go to the municipality and apply for other subsidies, and it takes a long time, it can be costly, because you may not have so many resources because you are ill, and often it may end in a refusal that means that you have torn the carpet away under your own or your family's economy. But it is not only the economic consequences that are the worst. A lot of people are talking about all the other consequences it has, and I also believe that in the debates we have had, more people have realised the other consequences of this legislation. Several have reported that mutual dependents have meant that they are lonely, not only because it is a challenge in everyday life, where it is difficult financially to get the ends to meet, but also because one feels that one becomes unequal in relation to one's partner, and the feeling that one becomes a strain on one's family is present. Several have also said that the rules apply to whether they actually dare to start a new life with their new love, and several sick people have also told about the enormous insecurity it never creates to be able to fully count on what you have of income. Then you suddenly owe $20,000, but you haven't had the chance to keep up. When you already have a low income, it can be really difficult not to be able to plan out into the future, and if you do not already have the greatest profit, it can also be difficult when you are unable to keep up. I have spoken to several people who have tried to obtain access to their own files but who have been rejected. So when we table this motion for a resolution together, it means on the part of the Enhedslisten that it is a hope that we in this legislature can go all the way. We have an obligation to ensure real equality between the parties; we have an obligation not to make people economically dependent, but to make them self-employed, and now we have the opportunity to do something about it. There is a bottom-up task in abolishing benefit regulation based on mutual dependants, and together we can do the right thing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415161116	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415161140	Thank you. If you had to create a new system, if we had a completely blank piece of paper, would you make the current legislation as it is? No, you wouldn't. I do not think that a single party, even those who do not want to change it now, would do the same. Because in my optics you would not be able to do that with a clear conscience when you can see the consequences of what the system is like. Then I often hear the argument that you have to support yourself and yours. I guess I'm as bourgeois as you get, but for us in New Citizens, that's exactly what this is all about. I don't know if it's because I've seen the consequences of this. I'm coming, and it might be a surprise to some, a little from the shadow side of society. I have seen how it tears families apart, and I have seen how people who actually find love choose not to take the final step. So you can say, shouldn't they do it if it's love? But we also live in a society where we are so heavily taxed where it is so expensive to live that it is not always just an option that it is not just a choice you have. I think it's gonna be some kind of spreadsheet explanation where you just have to be able to do one thing and the other. That's not how it's out there. These aren't greedy people. It is not people who want to finance one thing or the other. We fund God help me in here from the Parliament hall plenty of fun projects within the public sector. Oh, my God! There are no limits. But something else is when it comes to helping people, such as you. they've got a work injury so they don't have to get hit by this. I can't defend it. I do not want to defend it, and we do not want to defend it in the new citizens, and that is why we believe that we have an obligation. Try to think about the salaries that some public communication workers receive: 800,000 - 900,000 kroner. Then we hear some people say in the debate: we can put the tax up and down a little. It doesn't matter to them. These are quite different people. It is people who are affected, and I think it is rude that we allow ourselves to spend money on all the fun projects: more money for Denmark's Radio, more money for cultural projects, more money for external consultants and everything else, while at the same time standing and using as argument that there is no money for this. I don't like it. Then a motion for a resolution has been tabled here. There are also some things that divide us here, for example. the financing. We do not believe that the right thing in a country which already has the world's highest tax rate is additional taxes or any additional taxes on business. Because when you put additional taxes on business, it makes it more difficult for them to hire people, and we do not think that is the right way to go. We believe that in one of the world's largest public sectors we can easily find money and we want to help find the money to finance it in this massive public sector. So, as the proposal is here, we cannot vote in favour of it, but we would like to take part in it, and if you want to be open to finding another funding, then we also have the element that some of the others have about cash aid. That is why we believe that if we can look at the spouse dependency of pensioners and early retirement, let us start there. Let us start where there is agreement and then let us see if we can find any funding. But increased taxes in a country with the world's highest tax rate will not be supported. We can find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415161639	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made, first to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415161646	Thank you for a good speech and an authentic speech. After all, we agree very, very far along the way, and it is clear that we would like to continue working to ensure that pensioners and early retirement can be exempted from this interdependence and spouse dependency. Of course, we will also work in other ways to ensure that the recipients of cash benefits are able to do so, but let us stay on what brings us together instead of what divides us. As far as funding is concerned, I understand the principle of the rapporteur's opposition, and that is also in the rapporteur's basic political position. However, I would like us to be able to discuss some of this rather without prejudice, because the companies and companies that are going to finance this with the form of funding we have chosen are sometimes large multinational companies that do not pay taxes in Denmark. I have an article here where they say that Q8 has had a 35-year tradition of not paying corporation tax in Denmark, and the supplier says that this is how we avoided paying corporation tax for 35 years. I think that sometimes there may also be neoliberal developments that are so wild that we can put our foot down a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415161801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415161801-2	The problem is economic that, if you punish with corporate tax, it puts itself directly in the real wages of people who work. We saw it most recently with the proposal in Arnepensionen, which will impose restrictions on wages. It also put itself in low wages for consumers out there. So even though it may sound as if it is fine that we can just take corporate tax, it has a direct impact on the salaries of the citizens, that is, on the salaries of the floor. So if you take it out there, their wages will fall, and that's why it's very, very bad to start saying that corporate tax has to be raised. Because it puts itself directly in the wages of the others. However, if we are to be open-minded, the alternative could also look with us at why we have something called Denmark's Radio, which must be publicly funded, and whether people in 2021 cannot buy the television themselves as they think. Then we had 4 billion. kr., which is enough to finance it. Or we could just cut it down to half to start with, and then we'd also found that 1.8 billion. kr. that you need. So if, in the same way as you ask me to be open-minded, it can make sense financially to look at other places, then let's look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415161904	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415161905	Copy that. We want to help look at other ways, certainly. There are also lots of dynamic effects, more reason for home care, home help, housing support, extra work offerings, less black work that is a good business in this. I was just thinking that that part of corporate tax, such as... Q8 now has to pay, has nothing to do with the Danish real salary. Well, they haven't ever paid taxes in Denmark, and that's what they should do. So sometimes in this corporate tax model it can also get so far out that we actually just make it possible for the big companies to refrain from paying taxes in Denmark without it thereby improving our real wages. So that's also where I think there might be an edge that might be cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415161953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415161954	Well, this is probably going to be a bit detailed, because it is a loss-making process, and so it can hit a lot of start-ups who want to invest by not being able to make their losses in the years ahead. So it's gonna be very technical. But it can do a lot of damage to the economy if you do it. But I'm glad you're willing to look at the other places. Because I also think that there are some of the things that may not be measurable in here when you take this, i.e. the joy of life, the joy of taking an extra job, the fact that when your boss asks you if you don't want to work over, you can say: yes, I actually do, because it also gives something to us at home. Those are things you can't measure. But I can promise the rapporteur that this is the kind of thing that matters to people. It gives them dignity, and it gives them respect, and they bring something home. Maybe they have the opportunity to save up for an extra vacation, and it's worth a lot in my world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162052	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162057	Thank you. I would also just like to make it clear that this is not a tax we are proposing here. It is precisely a gap in being able to subtract some things etc. Now the rapporteur also said that we should not be too technical, but if you want to be, you can go in and look at the proposal and see the funding there. I think it is nice that there are more people who want to abolish the principles of mutual dependants for early retirement and old-age pensioners, but I would really like to hear why it is that New Citizens do not want to look at it in relation to cash benefits recipients. Let's say I was on cash benefits and my spouse earned more than DKr 12,820.; then I would get nothing in cash. Isn't that quite wrong with the rapporteur? Will the rapporteur not help at least to look at it or perhaps help to change some of the regulations or rules governing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162155	Exactly the corporate tax thing, I'm pretty well under control now. I am also a tax rapporteur, and we ourselves have a resolution on a carry back system where corporate tax can be brought back and forth, so I am happy to take the discussion on corporate tax, on whether it is a gap or whether it is actually a very good way of doing so. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, we believe that the way in which the cash benefits are now arranged is completely mistaken. I myself have been in Aarhus City Council where we could see that there were people who had been on cash benefits for 10 years. That system doesn't work. In New Citizens we want it abolished. We think there should be a limit there. We also believe that there should be a greater obligation to protect oneself against unemployment and other things; one could then have a deduction there. So we'll set it up in a different way. We believe it is a mistake; a monster that has been made and therefore the whole system must be leveled down, and then something else must be replaced. That is why we do not think that we should go in and change it and make it better for cash benefit recipients at this stage. But we would like to look at the other two things where we think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162253	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162254	I am well aware that the vision is that you have to make some compulsory insurance and that there should be no cash assistance system at all, but we have the cash assistance system so that you do not get exposed to an economic or social deroute if something happens to your social conditions in your life. So with the policy we have here and now, New Citizens will not help to see that we ensure that the amount is at least higher than when it is at risk of 0 DKK. because of the income of his spouse? So, to be low-paid in Denmark, you have to earn less than 25,000 DKK. a month. This is half of what it will be to be low-paid in Denmark. It's really, really little money. Will New Citizens not help to see that it gets higher up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162341	We basically think that there is a difference between whether we are talking such temporary benefit, whether something has happened to your life, so you are going on early retirement, or whether you are retiring. We therefore believe that there are some other features of cash aid. We believe, however, that you should not be able to do so for several years, but it is up to the municipalities to actually comply with legislation that must be proper in that area. However, we believe that there is a fundamental difference between early retirement and retirement, which can be permanent and cash benefits, which can then be temporary. And there we also believe that there is a responsibility on the part of the individual citizen out there to insure himself against unemployment. You can do that; you can be a member of an unemployment fund. That doesn't mean you're gonna get into the same problem in this area. So we basically think there's a difference between those things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162420	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162435	We shall vote against the motion for a resolution. We are in favour of the principle that there are limits to how much money a family should be able to receive from the public if the family itself can earn enough money to support itself. We do not want grotesque stories about millionaire directors who have wives at home on cash benefits and who at the same time earn annual incomes of over 1 million. kr. Or even more so. We don't want stories about people who make 0.5 million either. kr., who has the spouse at home on cash benefits. We simply do not think this is a reasonable use of society's money and therefore we are opposed to this proposal. I would also like to say that one of the supporters of this proposal is that the spouse who is in work will take on more work if it disappears. I believe that the additional employment there is considerably less than the smaller employment that is being done by the fact that a non-worker in cash benefits no longer gets such a profit from getting into work because cash benefits are increasing. I do not know the figures; I do not know whether it has been calculated on the part of the Ministry, but my suggestion would be that employment in Denmark would fall as a result of it being implemented here. We don't need that. We actually need all the manpower that we can get close to at the moment, and we have that at all, and also for that reason we will not be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162616	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made, first to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162621	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a few questions. I don't think anyone wants to hear those stories, because that's not fair. But that is also the thing about making legislation for the few or for the many. So I would like to ask about LA's position on this, if you set a limit on the amount of money for it. Now we're not talking about millionaires going home on cash benefits. Now, if we take out the cash benefits and take out the early retirement... It is not someone who will then be reentering the labour market. Some are out of the labour market, they are considered not to be able to be in the labour market, so they cannot be moved into the labour market by saying that they have an economic incentive to do so. Could Liberal Alliance be pragmatic in looking at whether some amount could be set against, for example. early retirement pensioners and their spouses? That is, it's not cash aid, and it's not for millionaires. I ask whether this is ideological or whether there is also a pragmatic aspect to LA?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162709	But there is a limit today. Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen must be taller. In other words, there is a limit to how much a spouse can earn before there is any set-off in the other spouse's early retirement pension. If sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen thinks that limit should be higher, that is fine, but we do not share that view; we do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162732	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen? Lars Boje Mathisen No, that's all I needed to know). Then the next brief remark is to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162739	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Then I can tell you that the Ministry of Finance has calculated that this proposal will give up to 1,000 full-time employees, so that is something that should be positive immediately. If we're going to get the numbers on these scare stories, I guess the balance isn't really there. If we are to follow the arguments that come from the Liberal Alliance, the bottom level should be raised from when we are set off, and the ceiling from when the set-off stops should probably be increased, because today it is at DKK 580,000 and, moreover, it is not offset. So the way it has been put together today does indeed benefit the millionaire, whom the rapporteur otherwise dumbassed that it should not benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162834	I have to say that I did not quite understand the arguments put forward by Mrs Velasquez, and that may be either because I, who otherwise received excellent grades at school, is simply too stupid, or that may be because Mrs Victoria Velasquez has not explained herself sufficiently educationally. I'm not gonna be able to tell you what caused it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162853	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162854	It may well be that I did not explain the teaching enough. I'm just thinking that if the Liberal Alliance's argument were to hold up, then the amount from which you start to be set off should be lifted, so that the set-off happens later, that is, when the income is higher. Then the set-off will also stop from DKK 580,000 afterwards. and up, and I'll just say that when it's 580,000 kroner. A year, it is actually the millionaire who is proportional to the cheapest. I hope that makes a little more sense. I know that these are many figures, but the rapporteur is also sharp, so I hope it made sense now. So does the rapporteur not see that it is actually low, so that it is proportional to the low-paid and middle-paid harder than the millionaire that the rapporteur otherwise mentioned?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415162953	It is probably already at the beginning that I get off when Mrs Victoria Velasquez is trying to explain what the Liberal Alliance should think, and then I think: why should we mean it, because we do not? I can't really follow why we should think that, and the rest becomes a bit of a fog, because I'm still wondering why it's that we should think as Enhedslisten thinks we should think. We think that the limits at the moment are fine and we do not want more money for these families who already receive a lot of money from the public sector. We think that the problem in Danish society is that there are some families who pay too much to the public, and we also think that there are some families who get too much from the public, and that is why we do not want to change these borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415163035	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415163038	Perhaps what may seem a little strange is that the rapporteur is concerned that those who are rich get too much. The rapporteur's party tends not to be so worried about that. It will be very, very few, so in its concern that those who have a lot get too much, the rapporteur accepts that far, by far, most people, as this proposal is about and which belong to the low-income groups, should not have any more. That's what may seem a little illogical.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415163112	I know that it is the people on the left far away, and there the Alternative also counts in my optics, at least a lot of voting along with the Enhedslisten here in Parliament to understand that there is a difference between the money that you earn and the money that you get and that other people have earned. That is where we think there is a fundamental difference. We think it is too bad that you are allowed to keep so few of the money you have earned in this society. Generally speaking, we do not go around thinking it is too bad that you do not get enough of other people's money. For us, there is a huge difference. I know that if you are on the left, the money is there, like just, and it is like society's money, and you have as much right to other people's money as you are entitled to your own money, but we distinguish between your own money and that of other people's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415163201	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415163202	To all that left-wing stuff, I would say that the alternative is a green party. I myself am a businessman and have never been a socialist, so it is such a little old-fashioned political thinking. But if we are to stay in business, if this proposal is implemented, we will have many, many derived savings on public services, we are tired of paying. For example: We pay 8 billion. kr. For loneliness. It is clear that when there is so much tolerance, namely for thousands of people, we save money there. We don't get nearly as much work as we do. We will save huge amounts in administration at Payout Denmark, which Liberal Alliance also likes. After all, you have had a debureaucratic rapporteur. We will save money on home help and home care. We're gonna save money by people moving in together, so there's gonna be empty houses for the homeless. It's a good business. A liberal politician must understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415163250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415163251	Well, sir. Torsten Gejl, in this thing is the Enhedslisten, founded by the Socialist Workers' Party, the Communist Workers' Party, the Left Socialists and the Communist Party of Denmark, etc., and they vote at very regular intervals down here, yes, all the time, and Mr. Torsten Gejl almost always votes in the same way as Enhedslisten. So to claim that Mr. Torsten Gejl is not left-wing when Mr. Torsten Gejl constantly votes left-wing, is something strange, strange something.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415163319	Then there are no further brief comments to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I would like to welcome the next rapporteur from the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's point of view. Torsten Gejl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415163348	Thank you. It is rare that a liberal does not want to do good business, but it happens sometimes. The reason why there is so much focus on partner-dependent services is that there are many, many thousands of people who are affected by it and who have simply had enough. There are now 70 000 people who have supported a citizens' proposal to abolish partner-dependent benefits, and we have already considered this proposal. It is the citizens' proposal that has obtained the most signatures of the 893 citizens' proposals that have been provisionally created since the alternative got the idea of citizens' proposals implemented in the Folketing. In view of the unclear nature of the citizens' proposal and the fact that too high figures were used at first reading in relation to the cost of the proposal, we called in the alternative for a new debate in the Parliamentary Assembly at the second reading of the proposal. On that occasion, the government rejected the proposal because it lacked funding because it could have negative economic consequences for a number of pensioners and because it has to target those who have the least. We were therefore expecting the government to vote in favour today. We have a very good funding in place and we ensure that pensioners do not get stuck, and the last argument is that we have to ensure that those who have the least must have the most, and that is exactly what this proposal does. So we've solved all the government's problems of supporting the proposal, and when the government invents new problems for the occasion, I get a little tired. Today, we could have abolished the benefit regulation based on the principles of mutual dependents for cash benefit recipients and early retirement and old-age pensioners. That's why I don't understand why the government is sitting on its hands. The cohabitation-dependent regulations are a deeply unfair love tax, which often affects people who are ill or injured, and there are concrete stories of impeachment and unequal relations that flow into the backs of all of us almost every day. Some of the stories that make the most of me are those where people who love each other have to give up living together because of partner-dependent regulations, for example. when an early retirement person finds love harder because he or she will become a financial burden if he or she moves with his or her boyfriend, or when two people who love each other have to part because the economy becomes too tight. In other cases, people find that it is hardly worthwhile to work because their income is offset in the spouse's or girlfriend's pension. The treasure of love contributes to some of the Danes, who have the lowest income, having to pay fivefold tax. First you pay income tax, then they can be taxed by insurance payments for example. an accident and then they pay for economies of scale when moving in with a partner. Then there are unitary benefits, and in the end pensioners and early retirement pensioners who are not married to their partner will have to pay a gift fee. Admittedly, we cannot understand when and how much, although we have asked the tax minister both in writing and orally. The Minister of Taxation has twice asked us to call SKAT and ask, but we have samples 30-40 times without getting through. We're not even gonna get in line. We're just gonna be told to call you later. So for the time being, the answer is whether the unemployed early-retirer, who gets an elscooter from his working girlfriend, has to pay gift tax on top of all the other taxes and thus is taxed five times in relation to his low income, hidden somewhere in the Fort Knox, which is called the Treasury. It is clear that we will get that answer out of SKAT in some way, but I would rather do it irrelevantly by abolishing all the partner-dependent services, and that is why we are standing here today with Enhedslisten and making this proposal. As I said, we already have funding in place, but there is, in fact, a lot of money to be made in creating the well-being and quality of life for poor and sick citizens. When we encourage thousands of people to move together instead of making it difficult, we create lots of revenue through savings. It will release a lot of homes, which means you can make housing first projects for the homeless and save many millions. We save housing support, we save costs associated with loneliness, we save money for home care and home nursing, we counteract undeclared work, we increase work supply by almost 1,000 people, and we save well with millions for administration at Payout Denmark. It is difficult to make up exactly how many million kroner the savings run up in, but it should not surprise me that, in the end, it could actually help to finance the dismantling of partner dependency regardless. The most important thing, however, is that we allow people to live dignified and decent lives instead of those with the lowest incomes being a financial burden around the neck of their boyfriend or spouse. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415163838	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur, and then the next rapporteur to be invited to the floor is the rapporteur for the proposers who has the second half of his speaking time now. And this is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415163858	Thank you. Many battles have taken many years to fight, and sometimes it has gone in the wrong direction, but I actually do not think it does here. Of course, things are going too slowly, but the indications today are different from those we actually received a year ago, and I also think that the discussion is getting closer to a nerve and the core of what this is actually about, instead of it going around a lot in the east and west. I hear the government saying that you are open to looking at these areas, that the balance is not quite found, but there are some balances to be found, so I also hear that you do not agree with one another, but that you are open to looking at it. We also know that the Left has helped to relax some of the areas in the past, and I hear that in some areas we will be open to looking at whether we could relax a little, even if we are not going to give our full support to the resolution today. And the SF backs it up and says it's in the right direction. They believe, however, that early retirement pensioners, pensioners should be given priority and are not entirely sure of the recipients of cash benefits if I heard correctly, and the Danish People's Party feels a bit the same if I heard correctly, but are actually ready and able to vote in favour today if the recipients of cash benefits were not part of the proposal, and they are not frightened by what I think is also a sensible financing proposal. Conservatives and Liberals do not back up, and New Citizens in some way back up, but in another way they will not back up. We can talk about that afterwards. Otherwise, New Citizen backs up to clarify. I heard this about how it was gonna change basically. In general terms, I actually think one should be a little optimistic that it is more positive than when we stood here a year ago. I also heard from the Radical Left that we were not ready for the one-to-one resolution of the national meeting, but yet we were open to see whether some changes could be made in some areas. Otherwise, the rapporteur may say so if the rapporteur did not mean it that way. But in any case, I would like to thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164114	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164118	I guess I just feel a need to clarify. What we said was that we think it is sensible to look at early retirement and pensioners and to do so. But we don't think we should look at the cash benefits. In addition, we said that we do not agree with the funding, but, as we also heard from the Alternative's rapporteur, if we are willing to look at finding the money in the public sector as it already is, without adding any additional taxes to the business sector, we would like to take part in it. But we are not voting to add 1.8 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. We do not want to be a part of this, but that is why we can support the other. In other words, if you want to help find the money within external consultants or anywhere else where we can find the money, we are fully involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164208	Thank you. As the resolution also says, we are very open to looking at other funding. However, early retirement and old-age pensioners, but not cash benefit recipients, are noted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164220	Then there are no more brief comments to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten, so thank you for that. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164239	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jens Joel. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164300	Thank you for that, President. We know that dyslexia does not have to be a brake to get through school and education well, but we also know that the reality out there is that a lot of people with dyslexia are fighting a hard fight every day on their educations to actually get through what is a little easier for those who do not have the challenge. That is why we have taken a number of measures in the field of dyslexia. In fact, we have two years in line now made packages of initiatives to help, because it is our belief that if we are to do something that really creates equal opportunities, we also have to treat people differently and take account of the challenges they have. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal which translates two of the initiatives that we agreed on with the latest efforts in the field of dyslexics. First of all, it is easier access to dyslexic afterschools. It is, after all, a proposal aimed at helping financially with a subsidy to reduce own-payment, in other words to ensure that it becomes more affordable. That is, of course, because for some dyslexic people there will be an extreme gain by coming to a dyslexic post-school where you see that all the other students at the school, all the other young people with whom you have a community, also have some of the same challenges and have fought some of the same battles, and they may also be able to help each other get through the next. We would like to give more young people with dyslexia the opportunity to be a part of that community. In addition, we would like to provide the opportunity to set up classes with extended training courses on upper secondary education for young people with special needs or challenges. You take a lot of consideration across the board. Without comparison, however, we have Team Denmark classes for some of those who are really good at sports; you can see that they have to take a little longer to cope with their youth education because they are busy with something else, and of course you also have to have that option if you have challenges and, so to speak, start at a few points below zero when you start your youth education. So, in order to take account of this, we would like to make it possible to extend this, and in some circumstances today, but by allowing some of these pupils to be brought together in the classes, we can also qualify the educational effort and target it towards the needs and challenges of some of the young people. So that is the reason for what we are discussing today, namely a proposal with two initiatives, and I hope there will be broad support for this by its very nature, because it is my experience that the parliamentary parties are generally happy and willing to give extra support to young people with dyslexia as a challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164615	There is a brief comment to be made on the rapporteur and it is from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164619	I have great sympathy for the proposal. I have actually been a little surprised that the Danish People's Party is not in the agreement and has not been called for negotiations on it, but my question is about something else: these classes in high school. It's a really nice move. At least it looks like that on the paper. But what you might be a little worried about is that there will be students with many different reading problems who will be gathered somewhere, reading problems that are not all due to dyslexia, but may be due to other things, and is there then a teacher who will be able to cope with all the different challenges? This is also something that is being pointed out in the consultation responses. I would therefore like to ask what action will be taken to prevent classes from being set up which are not really to everyone's advantage, because there is a very large difference between the various functional problems that pupils can have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164718	I understand the question, and I think that is one of the reasons why we are putting this opportunity out. After all, it is a question of assessing it in schools. It can be said that the support that a student has the right and the opportunity to receive because of his challenge already exists today. Therefore, it can be said that when there is an opportunity to make these special classes, they must of course be able to be made where it can provide an educational gain. This means that you should not put young people together in a class and separate them if they do not actually benefit from a special course. This is why it is also very much a decentralized decision by the educational institutions to assess whether it makes sense, both whether the student base is there, but also whether the pupils it is actually about will benefit from a special course. There will also be dyslexic, I think, who will want to maintain ties with the ordinary classes, if you like, that is to say with the class they would otherwise be in. Of course, that must also be respected, because not all dyslexic people are the same. That is why it is an offer and not a solution that is being pulled over the heads of young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164831	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, Mrs Maja Torp. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415164852	Thank you for the floor, President. Today, being dyslexia is not associated with the same difficult challenges and the same social stigma as it was previously. But thus not said that it is a dance on roses to be dyslexia rather the opposite. For most dyslexics it will be a challenge to get through even a simple text and to read proof on it, even on something as brief as a text message. However, although it may be difficult to get the letters to stay in their seats through the eyes of the dyslexic, there are probably no longer many who would argue that dyslexic must take their place in the back row of society because they are unsavory. The fact is that dyslexic today can become everything from actors to academics, and indeed even group chairman in the Left. To those who were not allowed to know, the chairman of the Left, Karsten Lauritzen, is dyslexic, but that certainly does not hold him back, I should like to say hello. The fact that we have reached where we are and that we have shelved prejudices has been a long and tough struggle, and we must, of course, stick to the positive developments all the more because we are not yet in the finish line. Specifically, this means that we must continue to devote resources to the dyslexic and to their families. For even though we have come a long way and gradually had prejudiced the earth, it is still hard to be dyslexic, especially when you are a child and a young person. Just imagine what it must be like to sit on the school bench with dyslexia such as: a 13-year-old with teenage doubt and a fear of being elected next in line to come up and read the day's text in Danish. Because you know very well that when the trip comes to you, there is a danger that it can be difficult to say the words and you risk being ridiculed. It must be an unpleasant experience, to say the least, and I understand if the self-esteem and self-confidence of dyslexia likes a break in the journey through the education system. For the same reason, the Left is keen to provide dyslexic and their families with a solid basis for some professional success experiences. The fact that the Left is concerned about helping dyslexic people should also be a well-known matter, for example, if you think about our support for the Network Locomotive, which is, of course, a business network that helps dyslexic people to get better at reading and writing. That is why we are also surprised that the government did not invite us to these negotiations which form the basis of the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. In this context, I would like to stress that it would be appropriate, if not to say good style, for the government to move across the middle in the future and to take hold of the Left and the other bourgeois parties both for the sake of good input and for the purpose of securing the broad majority in such important areas. With that said, we are pleased that the government, at least with this proposal, has come up with some very sensible initiatives that the Left can support. However, I would just like to point out that the Left is rather incomprehensible about the fact that the government has not wanted to secure the funding for the Network Locomotive, as I mentioned earlier, because it is a network that has made a noticeable and documented difference for both dyslexic and dyslexic companies for more than 20 years. As a result, I would like to stress that, although we believe that the initiatives aimed at by the draft law are good, they should not be seen as a substitute for the network locomotive, but as a complement. The fact is that there is a need for a broad approach to the dyslexic, and for the same reason it is of no use for the government to give with one hand and go with the other. So all in all there is praise to the government for the bill, but risk for the process up to the submission and for the Network Locomotive not being prioritised. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415165341	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415165359	Thank you for the floor. The Danish People's Party has always been interested in doing something for the weak, for the disabled and also for the dyslexic. That is why we are a little too sorry that we have not been invited to these negotiations either, to which we would probably have been able to contribute positively. So we're a little puzzled about that. But we support the proposal. We would really like to help dyslexic students, both in post-schools and in high school. As I said earlier in my question to the Social Democrat rapporteur, we think it is very important to follow what learning problems they have. There may be very great difference, and it is not always the same medicine that is needed. So there is a need to keep a close eye on exactly what works to whom and to be able to act on the basis of a more individualized analysis. However, we think that the initiatives are sensible. We have some doubts about the funding. We will ask about this during the committee procedure, because we do not quite understand where the money comes from and whether it is actually being spent several times. In general, however, we welcome the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415165540	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and also thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415165608	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that, unfortunately, our rapporteur was unable to give the speech, so I have promised her to read out her speech. All children and young people must have good educational opportunities in Denmark. Unfortunately, we know that children and young people with disabilities have far more difficult conditions for education. An analysis by the Workers' Employment Council shows that one in three 18-year-olds with a psychiatric diagnosis or disability is not undergoing a youth education. We're abandoning these kids and kids, and that's not good enough. We can and must do much more than we do today. With the bill we are discussing today, we are taking a step in the right direction. We provide better access to dyslexic secondary schools, and we provide the opportunity to set up classes with extended education courses in high schools. In particular, we have fought too long in the SF to create classes with extended training courses. There are good examples of high schools such as Mariagerfjord Gymnasium, Kalundborg Gymnasium and Nørresundby Gymnasium, which already have entire classes with students with extended courses. So it is so much time for the legislation to come along. On the other hand, what is lacking is funding. It is not free of charge for schools just because total teaching time does not change. We know from Mariagerfjord Gymnasium that their classes with searched hf cost them about DKK 700,000. per year per year, Class. It has required funds and otherwise to scrape funds together wherever possible. But it is not a durable path. The classes of these colleges are not supported financially because they are diagnoses other than asf. If you have adhd, anxiety, mild autism or other diagnoses, it doesn't count. We know from Mariagerfjord Gymnasium that they have great success with their classes. The students complete high school and move on in the education system. It is young people who, without that offer, probably had not received a youth education. For SF, it is absolutely crucial that we do everything we can to remove the leg buckles that make young people with disabilities not get an education. It is vital that we make the necessary investments, and we even know that, in addition to providing life opportunities for the individual, investments can pay for society and earn their living in the long run. The Minister, together with the Minister for Education and Research, has written a book on how the Ministry of Finance's calculations overlook the financial gains that exist in investing in children and young people. This applies to all children and young people, but this applies in particular to children and young people with disabilities. In SF we look forward to the upcoming negotiations on inclusion in primary, secondary and secondary education. These are important negotiations where we can ensure that children and young people with disabilities have better educational opportunities. With that said, we in the SF support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415165910	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see the Radical Left rapporteur in the Chamber, but on the other hand I can see that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is ready to jump, so I welcome him. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415165930	For thousands of children, young people and adults, dyslexia is a barrier to education, but fortunately it is a barrier that can be crossed if you get the right help and support. Therefore, it is important that we detect dyslexia early so that support can be implemented as quickly as possible and we must ensure that support is available throughout our education system so that people with dyslexia have the same opportunities to train as everyone else. With the bill here, we have such a special focus on the post-schools and high schools. Many post-schools have long worked systematically to support pupils with dyslexia and, as can be seen from the legal notes, there are today a dozen post-schools which have been approved with a single special educational offer, which is targeted specifically at dyslexia pupils. With the bill here, we are introducing an additional funding opportunity, and hopefully this will pave the way for more young people to have a post-school stay with dyslexia. In the field of upper secondary education, we are opening up with the proposal to supplement the provisions already in force on extended training courses with the possibility of setting up independent teams, bearing in mind that I would also like to emphasise the comments that have already been made as an offer to young people. I have also noted that the answers to the hearings express concern as to whether the amended legislation will help to exclude pupils with dyslexia, and I can understand from this that the concern exists, and that is why I just think there is reason to stress that pupils with dyslexia will not, of course, be obliged to choose an independent team, nor must they under any circumstances feel pressure to choose a separate course. Of course, the necessary help must also be provided in the ordinary classes for the pupils who choose it, and I think that Danske Handicaporganisations write it correctly in their hearing answer when they write that it is important that the pupils who choose a class with a specially organised programme experience that they are completely equal in the school's life. It is important that the students are included. I also think that when you look through the consultation answers there is reason to note that there is some regret in several places from the fact that only the post-schools and high schools are being taken into account, so for the sake of good order I would like to say that we in the Enhedslisten think it is really important to strengthen efforts towards primary school pupils not only those who choose the post-school path but also pupils in primary school. We believe that there is a great need to improve the opportunities for dyslexic people who go on preparatory training. This was one of the themes we also had in the financial law negotiations in connection with SBS support for students at the Fgu. So I would just like to say that I share the vexation of the hearing parties who write: it is a pity that it was not our area of education as well. On the other hand, I would like to say that what we are doing is in no way contrary to doing anything else, and I hope that the fine initiatives we are now taking here in the post-school and high school areas, there are already other initiatives • will also pave the way for further initiatives, so that those who are looking for something more in primary and lower secondary schools and those who are looking for stronger action on the Fgu will also soon see that there is an interest in it and that we here in the Folketing will find money to strengthen the conditions for dyslexia in the areas in question. In conclusion, I should like to convey a greeting from the Radical Left. Marianne Jelved has asked me to say that the Radicals also support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415170339	Thank you for that to the Enhedslisten and there are no brief comments to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. It's sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415170402	Thank you, President. I am also speaking here on behalf of our rapporteur, Mai Mercado, and I hope that this will not make the speech less exciting. After all, the bill we are talking about here is two initiatives that the government negotiated with its support parties in the autumn to benefit dyslexic pupils. It is, of course, the privilege of any government to enter into political agreements with whoever it likes, but we would of course have liked the Minister to have sought the broad cooperation of the Folketing. I would remind you of an advertisement which I remember from the election campaign of the Social Democratic Party, where you had pictures of Scrabble with different party letters to show that you wanted to make agreements across the board, but that requires, for example, that you reach out to, for example. the blue lots. It didn't happen here. It had sent out a good signal that we could jointly, across the Folketing, stand guard to ensure better help for dyslexic children and young people than the support they receive today. We therefore support the possibility for more pupils to attend post-school dyslexics. A course at a dyslexic post-school helps to raise a lot of students. This can be the special help to take a proper move forward professionally, which can help open many more educational doors for the student later in life. The social community is, of course, also important. In the old days, dyslexia was stigmatised by the fact that you had to have other problems than that, but that is not the case, of course. Today, unfortunately, many dyslexics have still met some of the very same prejudices in their path, and there we think it helps to be part of a community with many others who have had some of the same experiences. That is why we warmly support the word-blind afterschools, of which there are now about 20. We also support a new grant to reduce the own-payment for pupils in dyslexic after-schools, because it will ensure easier access for more pupils. Similarly, we support the second point of the draft law: to allow for the creation of classes with extended training courses. Today it is already an opportunity in the legislation to set up extended training courses, typically one year extra, for example. 4 years instead of 3 years. However, the bill creates the possibility to create independent classes with independent teams, and this can make it even easier for high schools to create educational programmes for students who are dyslexic when it is possible to make whole classes. Conservatives support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415170632	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415170655	A lot of good has been said about this bill. Dyslexia or dyslexia is something that unfortunately many children suffer from, and they sometimes find it very difficult at school. I'm a schoolteacher myself, and I've also met these kids several times, and it can be a huge challenge to overcome. I feel this bill is very narrow. I think it's the Danish Teachers' Association that mentions it. It specifically addresses word-blind afterschools and saw this with the possibility of setting up these classes of extended education. What I also notice is that both the Danish Teachers' Association and the Dyslexia Association actually problematize some of the issues in the bill, and that is why I have a few questions here in the committee procedure to answer before we can finally state whether we support this bill. But I just want to say that a good effort to ensure that all children who have challenges can be helped very well on the way, whether it is dyslexia or other challenges, we always welcome in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415170806	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance present in the Chamber, and so it has become time to welcome the Minister for Children and Education to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415170827	Thank you. It's hard not to smile with the support that is for this proposal from all the parties of the Folketing. Of course, there is an opportunity to clarify questions along the way in view of what New Citizens said. A number of others have also said that there were some other things they would like to do in this area too, and I certainly hope so. Because I have come to or rather I have not come to it, because it has certainly been done consciously to make the promise that every year I am allowed to have the privilege of being Minister of Education, I will make a new word-blind package. When I have done so, it is, of course, because the dyslexic area simply needs us to keep on returning to it again and again and to allocate more resources and get it done even better. When my very good colleague Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, who is now Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, was elected to the Folketing, was the first proposal he ever made in connection with the year's wagering pool negotiations under the previous government that it was compulsory to be tested in the 3rd class. After that proposal has been adopted, it is fortunately that there are many more that we are catching today. In other words, we are simply given the opportunity to give the support and help that is needed. It just shows that these proposals work and if we continue to be persistent, I think we can go somewhere where the children will see that the challenges of dyslexia are actually something we can give it quite relevant support about. It's just to tell everyone who says we need more: yes, thank you! This makes the negotiations much, much easier when we reach the next re-birth. But thank you very much for a good debate today, and thank you to the parties that support it. In fact, the principle of this is quite simple. In other words, if people are to be treated equally and be equal, they have to be treated differently. We need different things, and that is why, of course, there must be the principle everywhere in our education system that all pupils, regardless of what they come along with, should be able to find their place in the community, where they both feel seen with the challenges they can have and feel appreciated. If that place is not there for a child, we have failed as a society, and then we must be able to do better. This is true of those who love practical subjects, creative subjects or academic subjects; those who learn best by touching; those who learn best by doing or best by hearing or reading. We perceive and get to know the world in different ways, and this, of course, also applies to dyslexics. Students must have dyslexia in students still, although we have come very far, often discovered too late. There is still a huge backlog after all those years when you didn't test per. automatic. This means that the support and guidance has just not been good enough during school time, and this means that you may have had a really bumpy way through school time and in terms of having to take a youth education and forward. I know, and that's what research also says... that with the right support, we can make dyslexic people do almost as well as anyone else. Now someone said earlier here that the Chairman of the Left Group is dyslexic. So is Mrs Marianne Jelved, and she has come forward with it. And thank God for those who put their faces on and stand up, because I think it means a lot to know that you can of course become a minister, even if you have challenges with dyslexia. Mrs Marianne Jelved is also a Danish teacher. It is just to say that even with dyslexia in the luggage and even during the time that Mrs Marianne Jelved has ended, it has been possible to struggle to become first Danish teacher and then minister. Today, fortunately, support and aid have become much, much better, and this must, of course, pave the way for all young people to live their dreams on equal terms, including those who carry dyslexia with them. Already in 2019, the government presented the first four initiatives related to dyslexia. There we strengthened the early detection and early efforts in relation to dyslexic pupils in primary school, so to those who have asked where the primary school proposals are, I would say that they were already in 2019. And it is not the last ones that come along that I intend to make proposals once a year. The initiatives also included a study of the needs of dyslexic pupils for targeted education and support. And then, in September 2020, we made an agreement that these two bills are part of. One initiative is about easier access to dyslexic schools. If you are now one of those with whom it was not discovered in time that you drag dyslexia with you and who has had a really bumpy school time, then we should not be mistaken at all about what it means to get into that community at a post-school school and perhaps for the first time in one's life experience that lessons are being taught in a way that is based on the challenges you have. That's a huge relief. In many of those where it has not been discovered, it has become less self-esteem and less self-confidence in relation to going to school. Getting into a post-school environment where there are other young people who have the same type of problems and where you can reflect in each other and at the same time get the quite relevant educational support and the teaching that is needed, perhaps for the first time in your life. And it is a gift that you give to young people when you say that after-school stays must be cheaper than they are today. It is an obstacle to some that it is expensive to go to post-school. Of course, there are freeways, but it is still a big printing to send your children to dyslexic afterschool. In addition, dyslexia is to some extent hereditary, which means that there is a risk that a family will not only save up for one child, but more children going to a post-school of this nature. Therefore, it has been extremely important to me that we combine the sense of community and meeting the pedagogy and the teaching that you can meet in dyslexic post-schools, and I am extremely pleased that we can share it in the Folketing. The second initiative is about the possibility of setting up classes with extended training courses, and it has to be said quite unequivocally from this that it is an offer. That was among other things. Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj from Enhedslisten, who brought it up in connection with the things also mentioned in the hearings, where it is emphasised that this should be an offer. For there are plenty of students who, by their very nature, would prefer to stay in the educational course they are in, and they should be warmly welcome to do so. There are also some who have not started a training course yet and who, in fact, would just like to start what they had always imagined. Everything's fine. This is created on the basis of a demand to create individual classes, where you say that what you are starting from is that there is a need for a common way of teaching and that you can follow each other through this training course. I really think it is ridiculous that this opportunity has not been given in the past. It can be said that one of the advantages of doing something once a year is that both large and small appear, and here there has simply been an obstacle in our legislation to doing something that has been required. I simply do not think that is the case, which is why I am glad that the parties of the Danish Parliament support the removal of this obstacle and thus the possibility of organising courses. In fact, it is weird that we have given the opportunity to people who are in Team Denmark classes, but have not had the sight that there might also be other groups who need to be in a class community where, for example, one has in common a dyslexia. Then, of course, we need to be fully aware of the things that Mrs Krarup mentioned, namely that having dyslexia in the luggage can be very many different things, and if we extend the concept to include reading difficulties, it may be even wider. That is why, of course, education and the school have to decide what kind of class it is and what educational tools are needed, so that you start from the group of pupils you have to deal with. That's exactly what this is all about. So I just want to thank you very much for your support for this proposal. I am delighted, and this provides a very good basis for me to come up with more proposals in a year's time, on which I hope we can find common ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415171647	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to the Minister. In fact, the minister does not need to clean the desk, since the next one is also the minister. Then a wet swab can be saved, and you have to take it with you. So the minister has plenty of time to come down and swap the papers. As far as this matter is concerned, no more people have asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. And since no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415171724	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Children and Education. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415171741	Thank you. I would really like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this, because it is also a reaffirmation that when at some point we get a little bit out of the corona's hard grip with our people's government, then there is support, at least from the Danish People's Party, to implement it here. And I would say that we ourselves, on the part of the Social Democrats, have proposed in our motion that children and young people under the age of 18 should not be used as interpreters by their parents or other family members; it is not a fair situation to have children, and it should not be those who sit and translate, for example. school-home conversations or other, it's just not children's lot. That is why I agree from one end to the next. I believe that it is the parents' responsibility to learn Danish, and therefore it is not right that society should pay for expensive interpreting services for years. We stand by that position completely, and that is why it is still the government's intention to put forward the proposal to ban the use of children and young people as interpreters. And that means that the only part of the Danish People's Party's proposal with which I can actually have challenges and therefore cannot support is the part about the time, because we simply cannot reach it, and right now I cannot remember how many days remain before the summer break, whether it is 79 or 78 days, but I dare not set a date on it. I have tried this on a number of occasions, where right now we have some relatively large courses of negotiation in the field of education, which have been put in the deep freezer, and I have set a few dates there, but I must just say that because of corona, the 5th-8th classes are still at home, the 9th classes are at home in half time, and the schools in some municipalities are closed down. So we are still standing away in a roaring coronapandemic in the field of education. But this is a priority for me and for the government, and that is why it will, of course, be something we continue to want to put forward. But I simply do not dare to set a date for the sake of corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415171946	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is for Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415171951	I have to say that I am a little surprised that there has been no quicker response to the implementation of this proposal, which has been made by the Social Democrats themselves. It is not something that I or the Danish People's Party can in any way take credit for, that is, it is clear from this fine programme that was presented in 2018, even with the party chairman, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, on the front page, in which you can read that you want a ban on children's interpretations. And, of course, I am fully aware that there has been corona, but can that really explain everything, Minister? I believe that we have now just considered a proposal to intervene in the face of dyslexia, which is an important matter, but is it also to stop child interpreters? It can be a traumatizing and in many ways harmful experience for children to have to be part of these processes where parents have not learned how to speak Danish. So is it really the whole truth that only Corona has been done here that this proposal has not yet been put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172055	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172057	Then I have to ask how to give priority to such things in the government. Because when I look through Parliament's agenda, there are plenty of things in different areas where you think about whether it is something as important as for example. to ban children's interpretations for a government whose prime minister has declared that she will be the prime minister of the children. So what are the priorities you make, for example? in the Ministry of Children and Education, when this seems to have gotten so far into the pile that you can't reach it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172131	Well, I would actually say that now we have never tried such a pandemic here, so it could be that one would approach internal organization in another way at a different time; I do not know that. But I just whispered my colleague in my ear before I went up here, because the SF's rapporteur referred to my and Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen's book about the way it is estimated that this is actually one of the things we have come to incredibly far with under corona, because the analysis staff who sit with that part of the Ministry of Children and Education have not had corona tasks. I would not be able to allocate them to necessarily doing any task in the Ministry, but the part about the analysis work that needs to be done in relation to the calculation models has then been further worked on. So I would say that here in the coronatid there are some things that have been possible to continue with, and there are other things that have been incredibly inaccessible, typically because they have been areas, for example in the primary school sector, in the primary school department, where it is simply the case that they have spent all awake hours taking care of the corona situation. So that's why there's a little difference. Then it is also very much about how complex a legislative proposal it is. So, for example, what we have just dealt with a moment ago about dyslexia is a relatively simple legislative proposal, if you can put it bluntly. It's incredibly important, but it's not the most complex bill in the world. On the other hand, we are dealing with the proposal concerning the distribution of pupils and the national test, which we also have in the area of the Ministry of Children and Education, with two complexes which are quite complex, and that means that there would be no room for that under any circumstances. So it is both a question of how complex it is, how many ministries have to be involved in it, and then it is something about which concrete employees have been completely laid down because of corona and who has not. It's just to say that it's been a big puzzle, and I'm an unbelievable impatient soul myself, and it's special about the things where we've played out ourselves, of which this is part. This is one of the things the Social Democrat offensive would like. There may be other things that others have been more busy with, but this is actually something that really concerns me very much, which is why it is of course extra unfortunate when things have not been implemented yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172338	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172341	Thank you. Now, unfortunately, I was a little late, so I didn't hear the whole Minister's speech. It is, of course, my own fault, but perhaps the question will be so little misplaced, but then the Minister will just have to correct me. I fully agree with the intention of this motion for a resolution. We don't need a child's interpreter. But to make that ban surely requires that we have an interpretation system that already works, and that is not the situation today. Today, our entire interpretation system, both in the judiciary and in the health services, yes, throughout the welfare state, is incomplete because we have outsourced it. Does the Minister agree with my view that a ban cannot be imposed until there is something to replace it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172426	I would say that in reality Mrs Rosa Lund points out precisely one of the reasons why you cannot just rip the patch off, but I would actually say no. In fact, I do not believe that it is the case that we can continue with a situation in which it is the children who are responsible for something that we have not delivered on. So somewhere I would actually say to the question of whether I can imagine that, because there are eight billion other problems that have not been solved, we continue to think that it is the children who are translating: no, I cannot imagine that. Nevertheless, I recognise that there is a problem. That's also why it's not that simple. But I do not imagine that this bill will be postponed for an incredibly long time, waiting for us to make everything else work perfectly. It cannot and should not be the children who bear the responsibility when the parents need a translation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172513	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172515	Well, it's good to know that there are parts of government policy where it's not the children who have to bear the responsibility for their parents. There are other parts of government policy where it is quite the opposite, but this is another matter that I know this minister has little to do with. We in the Enhedslisten will be looking forward to seeing the bill, but I will stick to the fact that, regardless of the fact that we do not want children to interpret for their parents, I fully agree with that, we have to create a system that allows for other forms of interpretation, which in the Enhedslisten's optics should at least also be without user charges. Unfortunately, we see in health care that there are user fees for interpretation. So I hope that will not be part of the bill that comes from the government. But I don't think so either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172602	I would say that we haven't made the bill yet, and one of the reasons is that, just as Mrs Lund points out, there are a lot of secondary issues. But I do not imagine that, as a society, we should continue to pay for interpretation for families who have been here for so many years. There I actually have the expectation that the adults will take on the responsibility of learning Danish. But I think there is one way or another that there is no question. There are undoubtedly all kinds of challenges, and of course we must have looked at them, but it should not stand in the way of us actually implementing that it should be forbidden for it to be children. It should not be the case, because there are a number of problems, that the answer to who ends up being responsible for the fact that those problems have not been solved is the children. Right now it's the kids, but it's no good. This means that there may be all sorts of unspoken problems around which we should do everything possible. But it must not be the case that this means that we are waiting for many more years. It can be said that, although the proposers have not had the power of government, they have been supporting a government for incredibly many years without getting it through here. So you can hope that things will go a little faster than the 15 to 20 years it has lasted so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172706	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. This is how the rapporteur begins, and the first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Jens Joel. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172730	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution. It can be said that there is almost double concern. There is both a concern that the Social Democratic Party will actually implement the Social Democratic policy, and of course we appreciate that, but there is also the more important concern which is also the reason for our position and our political starting point for it here, namely the concern for those children who, of course, should not be brought into situations where they are forced to interpret for their parents in situations where perhaps some things are also being discussed which the children either do not fully understand or have asked to be part of the discussion about or where one can imagine that quite serious issues really come very, very close and sometimes very small children have to bear it. After all, the minister has said it right, namely that this proposal, which was part of our 2018 proposal, is about ensuring that children and under 18 years of age are not used as interpreters, and it is about ensuring that the task of learning and understanding the language is, of course, passed on to the parents where it belongs. Then the Minister has also explained that when we cannot support the proposal here, it is because we cannot achieve it in this collection for the reasons which we have been through many times, and which are primarily and almost exclusively about the fact that there has been a coronapandemic that has put large parts of our country and the central government and all sorts of ministries in a very hard grip and given a working pressure that has made us fail to achieve it. But the Danish People's Party can be and be calm and assured that this is still the policy, and we intend to put forward a legislative proposal on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172927	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415172929	Thank you for that and thank you for explaining why you do not want to support your own policy. Unfortunately, this is not the only example of proposals from this programme which have not yet been proposed to the Social Democratic Party and which, moreover, will not be voted in favour when the others propose it. Now it is the first time I have met the Minister of Education in the Chamber, and it may well be that there has been an extraordinary rush in the Ministry of Education because of the corona I cannot rule that out but can the rapporteur not understand that when you can find a place between 15 and 20 proposals from this programme presented by the Social Democratic Party in 2018 to appear as tighter in the field of immigration policy, which is not yet as much as put forward in the Parliamentary Chamber, you have the feeling that this was perhaps more pop and propaganda than it was really politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173021	No, actually, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173025	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173027	Then I'll try to spell it out a little bit more. In 2018, a parliamentary election was expected in the near future, and it came, as you know, Constitution Day 2019, and at all bus stations in the country and elsewhere you could see this fair and realistic policy that brings Denmark together with Mrs. Mette Frederiksen on the front page. Does the rapporteur not think that the many people who saw this programme at the time had the expectation that the government, when they called these many austerity proposals in the field of immigration policy, including a ban on child interpreters, would have made proposals both fairly and realistically, at least in half of the areas, before two years would pass before the government's birthday was celebrated?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173119	Firstly, it is obvious that the people, the citizens, must expect us to put forward these proposals, just as it is going to happen. We are implementing our policy, or at least we are seeking support for it. We do not have 90 seats, but there are indications that we can at least get support from the Enhedslisten. That is the first thing to be expected, of course. The second, which is a little more tricky, is that no one would have expected us to spend a year on a global pandemic that has challenged us in many ways and has of course also delayed some things. I can assure you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt that it is not because we have changed our position or because in any way we fail to put forward the proposals which, fortunately, seem to be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173202	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173217	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the floor. As a family rapporteur and a member of the Left, I think it is sad that we have come here to discuss whether or not we want to ban child interpreters. It is quite wrong to put children in the situation where they have to act with their parents, grandparents or other family members. Fortunately, there is already a ban on children under the age of 18 having to act as interpreters for their parents in health care, unless there are extremely acute cases. But that is not good enough either, because it can continue to happen elsewhere. Imagine a situation where you are 15 years old. You're at the job center with your mother who doesn't speak Danish and never been on the labour market. You are now suddenly responsible for communicating information about e.g. financial consequences, work tests and all kinds of other information related to such meetings. This must and must never be a task for children. For children must be allowed to be children. They have to go to the playground and play PlayStation with their friends and do homework without worry. In other words, they must make all the fun and also all the boring things that belong to a childhood. That is why it seems rather paradoxical to the Left that the Prime Minister, who in his own self-understanding is the Prime Minister of the children, has not yet done anything to prevent children from being placed in such situations. Surely it cannot be for the good of the children that the government has not chosen to do anything. The proposal we are discussing today is even the Socialist Group's own. It was part of the now famous aliens' outlay... Righteous and realistic... from 2018. However, the practice of the government has not done anything to deliver on the policy that they put before the electorate even before the elections last year. Against this background, of course, the Left supports this motion for a resolution and once again thanks the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to bring it up here today and also to keep the government in its ears.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173411	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173415	Thank you. I can hear that the rapporteur agrees with the content here and also says that it must and must never be a task for children. So my brief question is: what is the reason why the Left itself has not implemented this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173430	Now I really think that the Left has been quite offensive in this debate about interpreters at all, and if we are to be quite honest and low-practical about it, it should not be at all something we should be discussing, i.e. whether there should be a ban. Well, it should just be common sense that that's not what's happening. So perhaps we should also talk a little bit about: where is parental responsibility? And why is it that you have a non-existent expectation of these parents to take responsibility for your own life? They get a lot of other things in advance from Danish society. We are contributing a great deal in this respect. So I also think we should perhaps shift it a little over to the question of where parental responsibility is and perhaps we should not really talk so much about bans, because frankly it should be common sense that it was not the case that it happened in some places.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173509	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173512	Thank you. So, when I ask, it is because I am in complete agreement with the rapporteur, but when the Social Democrats proposed it here before the elections, it was the Left that had the power of government, and therefore my question was simply: if this is a matter of course, why has the Left not solved this before we hit corona and all sorts of other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173531	Now we had our then integration and alien rapporteur, Inger Løjberg, on the field. I do not think it is possible to blame either Inger Løjberg or the Left for not having pursued a strict and fair foreign policy in general, and we have actually also focused on the interpretation area in general. And there had just been a ban on health care and under it. It's just not enough, you might say. But in reality I would like to draw it back to the point that it should just be common sense. We should not have to discuss whether or not there is a ban. It is amazing that you have to do this to ensure that parents who have been in this country for six years do not take the children into, for example. The job center.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173607	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Halime Oguz, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173640	Thank you, Madam President. We agree, of course, that we should not have child interpreters in Denmark. Children must be children and play and learn... they should not stand for interpreters in adult matters. Children should not be involved in difficult conversations where they should convey a serious diagnosis, whether special social interventions should be implemented in the family or how the child goes at school. Children must be children. They must be spared the huge responsibility of having to be involved in the challenges of adults. We therefore welcome the Government's intention to change this and we also look forward to the negotiations. We also call on the government to call the parties for a discussion on how to resolve the problem. So I would say that, unfortunately, the SF cannot vote in favour of the resolution as it stands, and that is because we know that we are being called for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173749	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173752	Can Mrs Oguz tell us when these negotiations have been convened?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173758	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173805	That is the debate on short-term answers, it has to be said. In the first round, it is evidently mandatory that all questions should be answered with one spelling words. Well, can Mrs Oguz then say what direction we expect these negotiations to take? I mean, has there been a proposal from the government on how to ban child interpreters?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173827	I was about to say no again. But what I want to say is that I hope that we will have a broad discussion on both the scale of this problem and what we can do instead. Because there has to be a solution to this, and it is not at all reasonable that children should be involved in such difficult conversations. But we are also dealing with this privatisation of interpretation. People can be on transfer income and therefore cannot afford to pay for an interpreter. That is why we need to find a viable solution. That is why we are looking forward to some negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173912	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. We're gonna need a rag for despriting there, I'll tell Mrs. Halime Oguz. Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415173943	Thank you for the floor, President. With the resolution here, the Danish People's Party proposes a ban on children and young people under 18 being used as interpreters by their parents and other family members. Children should not interpret for parents in health care, for example, and thus be responsible for communicating difficult professional substances or difficult conversations such as the diagnosis of cancer or the like. For example, for such a conversation with the doctor may be about the choice between an operation or another serious treatment, and the correct communication of it should not be for children to be responsible. It is not the responsibility of children. Children should not be responsible for serious adult talk. It is the adults who have to take care of the children, not children who have to look after the adults. The problem is that the proposers themselves have helped to increase the number of children's interpreters that they now want to abolish, because that is a consequence of, among other things. the interpretation fee in the health care system. If you can't afford $2.50, you can't afford $2.50. For an interpreter, you may end up in the desperate situation that children interpret for you. So the Danish People's Party is quite right, namely that their decisions have helped to create a problem in the form of children's interpretations. It might be tempting to vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal if you do not think that children should interpret, because the Radical Left does not think that children should. We just have to do it in the right order: abolish the interpretation fee first, get better control of the interpretation conditions in general and then make sure that children do not interpret. If the Danish People's Party could be a part of this, then the Radical Left can vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174204	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174207	Of course, we will never vote in favour of radical relaxation of foreign policy. I don't think that's surprising, sir. Hegaard or anyone else who had to come with us here. What's interesting is, of course, how long mr. Kristian Hegaard believes that we must wait for the government which he is making into government. So, what is it fair to wait for the promises made by a government, which one has to say played a not entirely unimportant role in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174238	I do not think it is I who should put words or figures on when a programme which I have barely read should be proposed. But what I can say, on the other hand, is that it annoys me that the Danish People's Party will not be involved in abolishing the interpretation fee, which is, of course, helping to create inequality in our health services. And otherwise I have the impression that the Danish People's Party thought it was important in our health care that it was equal for everyone, and that it should not be based on social conditions and other things, in relation to who gets access to health care. And it is when some people have to pay $1,675. for an interpreter, and when others aren't. I regret that the Danish People's Party will not be involved in creating equal conditions in health care. But we must fight for that and see if we can succeed with another day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174325	Sir. Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174327	Well, of course it's gonna upset sir. Hegaard and the Radicals, every time the Danish People's Party gets a law through. That's the way it is in the nature of things. We're each other's antipoles. What is, after all, the big question is how the Radical Left reacts to the fact that we have a government that has thus gone to the polls on this. We want to enter into the negotiations without, for example, taking part in them. Is raising the fee, as Mr. Hegaard mentions, or what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174358	I can just say that we are taking a stand on the government's proposals as they stand and then we will look at it when the time comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174407	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174411	Thank you so much. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that it is the parents' own responsibility to learn Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174423	Of course, it is the individual citizen's own responsibility to make sure that he learns Danish, and so must he. When you come to Denmark, you have to meet requirements, both in relation to learning Danish and taking an education and getting into work. There should be no doubt about that. Those must be the demands you make. And these are demands that we make on everyone, and we must do so. What is more, when it comes to, for example, having a very advanced conversation in the health care system, such as knowing that you have cancer or have to engage in another course of treatment, then it can be quite difficult words to understand when it comes to this sort of thing. And you should not be exposed to an uncertain situation where you do not know what the doctor actually said about your health and the various operations you can choose. It is reasonable to have access to an interpreter so that you are sure you will get the right course of treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174517	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174518	You have the opportunity to do so; you just have to pay for it. Well, we know what segment we're talking about. Well, I doubt that there are particularly many Faroese, Norwegians or Germans who make use of this. After all, we know what kind of segment it is that uses children safely just to save that money. Why does the Radical Left not think that it is fine that if you cannot find out how to learn the Danish language, then of course you have to pay for an interpreter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174543	When there are some who have to pay 1.675 kroner. in order to participate in a conversation in the health care system, and others should not, there are user charges in the health care system for some people and there is no user charges for some others. This means that there is no equal access to health care, and this seems problematic to the Radical Left. New citizens then do not think that it is; they think it is fine that there is unequal access in the health care system, and they have to deal with that. That is certainly not the policy of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174617	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415174640	Thank you. I must start by saying that I think it is a little strange that this area belongs in the Ministry of Children and Education, because in all other areas, when we discuss interpretation and interpretation rules, it is actually in the Ministry of Justice or in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. But let it be said that it is nice enough to meet another group of rapporteurs. The fact that, after three years in Denmark, one should be able to speak Danish at a level that allows one to behave in society and to be in dialogue with the public and the authorities, we can only agree on "as a rule," one can imagine a lot of situations where it has not been possible for various reasons which cannot be attributed to the evil will of the individual. I think that almost everyone who comes to Denmark would like to learn the language. After all, life becomes considerably easier in Denmark when you know the language. You can understand road signs, you can understand product declarations, you can enter education and you can become an integral part of our labour market. I do not think that there are any people who come to Denmark and think: I do not want to learn Danish. In fact, I believe that the opposite is true. I believe that the people who come to Denmark and want to be part of our society also want to learn the language. It just doesn't change the fact that there are situations where the individual doesn't have the prerequisites for learning Danish. If you are mentally ill or if you are traumatized by war or have other reasons for not being able to attend classes on an equal footing with others, it is clear that you are lagging behind. It is not new to anyone that the Danish People's Party again wants to make it harder for the few people who have not been able to learn Danish at an adequate level. Already back in 2018, the Danish People's Party voted for a tightening in the interpretation area, which was to punish those who had not learned Danish at a high enough level after 3 years, considering that it is not reasonable for the Treasury to pay the interpreting assistance. But the problem with this approach is that in health care, for example, we are faced with a problem where the imperfection of Danish means that even the Medical Association can see that patient interviews affect the quality of health care. This makes the diagnosis more difficult and increases the risk of mistreatment. And if there is something that costs a lot of money in our society, it is maltreatment in the health service, not to mention how horrible it is if you cannot treat people for serious diseases alone because of a language barrier. We also know that the Danish People's Party has helped to reduce the Danish education that you receive when you come to Denmark. So I actually believe that in many ways the Danish People's Party itself is responsible for the problem they address here and which we fully agree with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in is a problem. Instead of discussing a proposal that children should not be allowed to translate for their parents, we should consider a proposal to remove self-payment from interpretation again. That would solve one of the problems we have in the area of interpretation. We should also be given priority to a Danish interpretation programme, as history has unfortunately shown that it has not just been something we have been able to outsource to a single company, and there we have actually stood with the Danish People's Party to have the agreement terminated with those named EasyTranslate. After all, the Finance Act two years ago succeeded in setting up a working group to prepare a new Danish interpretation programme, and we look forward very much in the Enhedslisten to see what the outcome of that working group will be. It's probably been delayed because of corona as well as everything else. The quality of the interpretation needs to be raised so that we are sure that the mistakes we are seeing today will not be made. Let us have a certification system as we see it in, for example. Norway and Sweden, and let us ensure that people who have to translate in the health sector know about health and that those who have to translate in the legal field know about law and have legal understanding. The fact that children are being used by their parents to translate in certain contexts today is a direct consequence of changes in the law implemented by votes from among others. Danish People's Party. And the lack of attention to the quality of interpretation that we have suffered for many years also leads to this problem. I do not think there can be any doubt that children should not be put in a situation where they have to translate for their parents. I just don't think children should. But I do not think that we will solve that problem by making a ban. In my speech, I explained why it cannot stand alone and why there is a need to do just so much more than that, for example. to create a certification scheme and an interpretation training and to remove the user fee. The Enhedslisten cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175140	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175208	Thank you, President. Here we are again, I was about to say. After all, this is the first time we have been here with Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as Minister, but this is the sixth time we have been standing here with one of the many fine proposals of the Social Democratic Party, on which the Social Democratic Party was elected but on which they are now voting against. There was the promise of a reform of Schengen; it was the Social Democracy for that when they went to elections and now they are opposed. There would be no relaxation in the area of family reunification; the Social Democratic Party also voted in favour of this, but now they are voting against it. Then there was the question of self-determination over Danish border controls; Social democracy also thought it was a good idea to propose back in 2018, they are now voting against. Then we tend to deprive Danish citizenship of criminals; yet another good proposal, which the Social Democratic Party is now opposed to. And then there was the ceiling on non-Western immigration, on which the Social Democrats voted and on which they are now also opposed. This time it's so child-interpreting. It was a good proposal in 2018, according to Social Democracy, a terrible proposal now. All these proposals have been taken from Justice and Realism, which is why it is ironic that the Social Democratic Party is now voting against. And then the minister sits and looks at me and thinks that this is nonsense, because the Minister has just said that it was something you would do, but you have not had time to do so. You just haven't had enough time since 2018-2021 to implement this. That is why we are voting against. I simply think that it is, yes, I find it difficult to find words. Already in 2018, they actually formulated why they were against children's interpretations. This was because children and young people under the age of 18 are not to be used as interpreters by their parents. It is the parents' own responsibility to learn Danish. Well, you can basically take the proposal from Justice and Realism and write it into a bill and put it forward in the Chamber, but the Social Democratic Party will not. What I also do not understand is that the Social Democrats' support parties largely agree with the Social Democrats' proposal, and they agree that there should be no children's interpreters. They agree that this is the responsibility of the parents themselves, yet they are also voting against it. But it is such a general trend that you see where the support parties do virtually everything that the Social Democrats say. In any case, we think it is time for the Social Democrats to live up to their own policies. It's basically the most basic thing here. That is why the Conservative People's Party is voting in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175436	Thank you. That is not a comment here either. Then the next Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175503	In concrete terms, this proposal states that before the end of this parliamentary assembly the Danish Parliament requires the government to have implemented a ban on children and young people under the age of 18 being used as interpreters by their parents and other family members. So here we are again. We need to discuss legislation separately for a segment that will not adapt to Denmark. Let me be quite honest, the vast majority, if not all, as this resolution deals with, should not be in Denmark at all, because right now we have a proposal addressing a problem caused by a totally misguided immigration policy for decades led by naive politicians who have happily allowed a huge number of people, mainly from Muslim countries, to come to our country. The massive failure has caused us great problems, both in terms of economic, security and cultural terms. When you are in Denmark as a foreigner, you must of course support yourself. Of course, you also have to pay if you need an interpreter, not after a few years, but from day one. It's just common sense. In addition, children should not be used as interpreters by their parents. In addition to the fact that parents do not even want to learn the language, it is also an indifference to the responsibility they place with their children when they impose on them the great task of interpreting as minors. Of course, underage children should not interpret for their parents. Let us now resolve the immigration policy from scratch so that we do not stand and have to make special legislation over and over again based on a segment that does not want to contribute, adapt or respect Denmark, us or our laws. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175655	Thank you. There are no comments. The Liberal Alliance is absent, so now it is Mrs Inger Løjberg, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175712	I would like to say from the outset that I fully support the proposal made by the Danish People's Party to ban child interpreters. I believe basically that when you live in Denmark, you must of course also speak Danish, and I simply do not think that you are properly integrated if you do not speak Danish. It is simply a prerequisite for understanding Danish culture and fully-toned going into the ordinary Danish everyday life. Then, of course, it is wrong, to say the least, if parents use their children as interpreters. This has already been extensively explained up here from the platform of former rapporteurs. That is why a ban is also appropriate. What must not happen then, I hope, too, that the government is very aware of the fact that children's interpreters are banned is, of course, that it is not the government that has to take over. It is simply not a public task to pay for interpretation for people who have been in Denmark for a number of years. It is and will be an obligation to learn Danish yourself and to take the lead. We also have an incredibly generous system in Denmark that allows you to receive free Danish education in the vast majority of cases when you have come here. So I fully support the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175846	Mrs Halime Oguz has a brief comment to make. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175851	Thank you. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether it is something new for the rapporteur that children interpret for family members in some cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175902	No, it's nothing new at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175906	I would just like to hear why the rapporteur has not done anything about this problem all the time the rapporteur has been a minister in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415175917	That is, in fact, a very reasonable question. That's because we took it a little differently. After all, we set down the years for how long you can get interpretation in Denmark, and I would have liked to see it put even further down. Because if we go back a number of years, you got interpretation as long as you needed it at all, which means that there were quite a lot of people who never got into the language and never found the need to learn Danish. And that's why you tightened the screw. I would like to tighten the screw even more, because I simply believe that one has a duty to learn Danish when one comes here and then even when it is actually the case that one gets it paid by the public. So it's just that you need to teach yourself the language.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180006	Thank you. There are no more comments, so that is why it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180021	Thank you, President. This proposal is basically about three things. Firstly, it is about the conditions of children. I read an article from Berlingske, which may well have 5 years on the back, which is called "Stop letting children interpret', where Ahmad Mahmoud, who is an engineer and also a writer, tells about how he told medical stories at the doctor, because parents had to have early retirement, how he interpreted his own school-home conversation and at the municipality discussed rights, cash benefits and housing insurance on behalf of his parents because they lived in Denmark but did not master the language. We have seen how children must tell their parents about their medical history, even serious diseases such as cancer and other diseases, and it is, by its very nature, a totally unreasonable situation to put children in. That's the one theme. The second theme is, of course, that you live in Denmark, and if you accept the relatively generous conditions that we offer, there are of course also obligations, and one of the most obvious duties must be that you learn to master the Danish language, so that you can become an asset for Denmark, so that you do not put the country to blame, which you want to be a part of, but rather actively contribute. And by having this opportunity, there is no incentive to really learn the Danish language, because you can always bring the children, who can then help, and you can live your life at home in the ghetto with al-Jazeera running on the screen. Then it is also about something else: keeping what you promise. And I do not know whether that is exactly what I can hear the two ministers discussing their problems with, but that could be the case, because there are quite a lot of proposals in this catalogue, on which, as you know, the Social Democracy in 2018 went to the polls, but on which you just cannot translate into reality. Last week we had a whole marathon debate with the Minister for Integration about neglected promises, where one more or less plausible excuse was made after another. And now we have heard the apology of the Minister for Children and Education. It's about corona. You haven't had time. And yes, the corona has certainly turned the world upside down. There is no doubt about that. But in order for the argument of a government which says that it will be the government of children to be valid in any way, it must also measure up to the other things that we have thus been able to find time to put forward proposals. So while I was listening to the other rapporteurs, I went in and read the government's legislative programme presented in October 2020, i.e. six months ago, where the Corona situation was well known, and it is of course interesting to see what one chooses to prioritise over a ban on child interpretation. We have a draft law on internship taximeter grants; we have a draft law on model parameters for vocational training for the calculation of internship-dependent employer contributions; we have a draft law on the possibilities for other excerpts of trial subjects; so cases that have been chosen to give priority to the proposal to ban child interpretations. We also have a draft law on the possibility of establishing local rules for the allocation of pupils, which was more important than banning children's interpreters. We have a bill on the involvement of the students in the process of printing it was more important than banning child interpreters. We have a draft law on exemption from the payment requirement for vocational training for certain refugees and family members. It was more important than banning child interpreters. We have a bill on organisational separation of the European School from St. Annæ Gymnasium. It was more important than banning child interpreters. We have a bill on the admission of youth organisations to youth education institutions... it was more important than banning child interpreters. We have a draft law on minimum standards in day-care institutions. It was also more important than banning child-interpreting. We have a bill for a new evaluation and assessment system in the primary school. It was also more important than banning children's interpretations. And then we have a bill on capping own-payment for study trips... it was also more important than banning child interpreters. It says something about this government that you choose to give priority to such matters before you live up to your promises of alien straggling. And I just have to say to both the rapporteur and the Minister: it will be untrustworthy. But this is neither the first nor the last of the broken promises of the Prime Minister's government. Next week, too, we will be discussing proposals from the Danish People's Party which, perhaps a little naively, simply require the government to implement the proposals on which elections were held. But for us, it's actually important. For us, foreign policy is heart blood. It's not just propaganda and stabbing. It's about securing all of our country. That is why, Mr President, we must move on. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180607	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180611	I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Morten Messerschmidt can confirm that a whole series of the proposals, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has just read out, has been postponed because of corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180622	I will not be able to say anything about that, but what I can relate to is that in October 2020 a legislative programme was presented in which all these proposals were included, but at that time it was decided not to put forward a proposal on child interpretation. What would then have happened afterwards doesn't really matter. It is possible that things have been dragged out, but that is not the essential thing. The important thing is that when you were making your legislative programme, you chose to give priority to all the things I have just mentioned before you realized the promise you made to the children, to the electorate and to the Folketing to ban child interpretations. Well, then, sir. Jens Joel explains why it was more important in October 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180701	Here you go. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180703	I think I'm just gonna take sir. Morten Messerschmidt's tirade as a confirmation that it was true that part of this was postponed because of corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180713	I think it has to be said that, sir. Jens Joel thought was a good argument, has been trumped by an even better argument. Because it is not a question of what has happened to the legislative catalogue afterwards. It is a question of what was going on up in the head of the Minister for Children and Education when she made the law catalogue. Because at that time she chose to do it, as Mr. Jens Joel called a tirade, but yet a tirade so limited that the ban on child interpreters was not included. And I'm still missing the answer from sir. Jens Joel on why not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180741	Thank you. Then there are no more comments and that means that the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180834	The debate is open. It's sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415180841	Thank you for the floor. Denmark has both economically and healthally managed better through the year zero of the corona crisis than most other European countries, and now we are probably looking at a jump in economic growth as the vaccine roll-out and the gradual re-opening of society. For the time being, when Denmark seems to have managed better during the first year of the epidemic than most other countries, it is mainly due to two things: firstly, the extraordinary efforts of the Danes to keep the infection down and, secondly, the historical fiscal efforts of the government and a broad section of the Danish Parliament's parties and the social partners together to keep their hands on Danish companies and jobs. 32 billion has been paid out. kr. over the compensation packages, which have taken liquidity measures for several hundred billion kroner, and economic recovery agreements have been concluded, which overall stimulate the economy by 135 billion. kr. Our joint efforts have prevented an even greater crisis with more unemployed people and more bankruptcies. Although things have gone better than at first feared, and although we look into brighter times, there are still many companies and employees affected by the corona crisis. The contacting industries and the travel industry are particularly hard hit, and especially the catering industry, travel agencies, hotels and shops are also expected in the second quarter of 2021 to be hard pressed on their turnover due to the epidemic and the restrictions imposed to contain it. That is why the government is proposing to step up efforts to help those companies that are at risk of being in a liquidity crisis when they have to pay included A tax and labour market contributions as well as VAT in the coming months. First, it is proposed to extend the loan arrangements for A-tax and labour market contribution to cover all companies' regular payment of A-tax and labour market contribution in April 2021 and the deferred payment of A-tax and labour market contribution in May 2020. The loans are proposed to be repaid in 2023, when the cyclical situation is expected to be closer to normal. Secondly, it is proposed to extend the VAT credit scheme to the VAT payments made by medium-sized enterprises on the first quarter of 1 June of this year. The loans are proposed to be repaid by 1 November 2022 at the latest. Thirdly, it is proposed to extend the period during which the cap on the tax account has de facto been abolished until 1 May 2023. Of course, companies should not be forced to pay negative interest in the bank on any surplus cash when the government postpones payment deadlines. These three measures are a continuation of our joint efforts to get Danish companies and employees as well as possible through the crisis, which is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181155	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181216	Thank you for the floor. As the previous rapporteur said, we are now dealing with the last shot at the tribe of the tax-economic aid packages that have been made to remedy companies in this time when they are subject to restrictions due to the covid-19. It is divided into three parts: a loan scheme for A tax and AM contributions, an extension of the VAT credit scheme to include medium-sized enterprises, and an increase in the threshold on the tax account. It is all the measures that have to help these companies, and for us in the Left, it is certainly important that we keep our hands on the companies so that, in this situation, which they themselves do not have any influence on, they are not hit financially hard. So we spare them as much as possible so that they can still manage and continue their activities after the crisis. There are some things we would like to clarify in relation to the last legislative proposal. In the last draft law we saw that it was a problem first that you could not borrow the money until you had to pay, and then you were allowed not to pay the money and then borrow it, but you got the reminders. And this is an issue we would just like to have clarified in committee and hope to have resolved with this bill. In addition, there is another challenge we would like to look at. This is the possibility to repay over 3 years instead of 1 year. It is planned that the money will have to be repaid at one point, and it can be difficult to recover from a crisis as long as this one is. So that is one of the things we would also like to ask more about in committee. Finally, I have raised with the Minister the wish to postpone some of the tax deadlines that companies had here in the near future. It has been difficult to reach with all the different aid packages that have been and what to apply for and things that change. And the Minister has already agreed to this this afternoon, so I do not even need to remind the Minister of that fact. I just want to thank you for the fact that the Minister has already solved the challenge in relation to the deadlines. So the Left can support the bill, but will seek clarification in the committee procedure of the things I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181415	Thank you. There are no comments. The next one is sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181429	It is no more than about two months ago that we last stood here with a not identical proposal, but at least on the same subject. We have now been through several aid packages for companies in the area of taxation, and this is something of the same as we have had before. But that doesn't make it any less important. Because we also think in the Danish People's Party that it is important that we give companies what you might call a soft landing. We've postponed VAT periods and tax periods and turned it into loan arrangements and raised this tax account ceiling and stuff like that in the past. However, the deadlines may have been just tight enough in relation to when we could see that they had to be paid back, because the crisis has probably got a little longer than was expected or, at least, hoped for. So we think it is reasonable that we should now extend the time when we can borrow, in other words, more specifically, that the loan system for A tax and labour market contributions will now be up to 2023. Similarly, the loan scheme for VAT will then be 1 November 2022 etc. We think that is quite reasonable. In other words, I am also open to what the Left says, so that one of the payment schemes can be made. Because I still believe that we have to realise that, although it is a long time limit, there might well be some who have some challenges in paying on time. I have a bit of a view that I would rather give them more relaxed methods of payment, instead of getting a hard limit and then perhaps going bankrupt. However, we may be able to look at this in committee or at a later stage when we can see how companies are getting out of this crisis. But at least we think it is a very good proposal that we can support. But I would also like to say, as I said last time, that the best aid is not really a loan scheme and aid packages, but the best help is that we opened up something more and allowed companies to sell some products, that is to say, open up shops, open up factories, etc., so that they can get some turnover and then pay their bills and pay their VAT and their A tax. When the infection figures show that they are actually really positive, in the sense that they are low, then perhaps we should open something more and thus provide extra good help for companies to help themselves. But the Danish People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181634	Thank you. And there are no comments here either. The next one is sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181648	Thank you. Former rapporteurs have well explained the content of this proposal, so I will not waste your time with that. We in the SF generally think it is right, very important to protect Danish companies and employees during this time, which is why we can also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181703	Thank you. Then we move on to Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181713	Thank you. This bill is an extension and extension of one of the corona relief packages in the field of taxation, and since we in the Radical Left have been helping to keep our hands on Danish companies all the way through during this crisis, of course we also support this extension. Specifically, we extend the A tax loan scheme to include all companies' regular payment of A tax and labour market contribution in April 2021 and the deferred payment of A tax and labour market contribution in May 2021. We are also extending the VAT loan scheme to enable medium-sized enterprises to borrow an amount free of interest equivalent to the VAT due on 1 June 2021. In addition, it is proposed that the period during which the tax account ceiling has been lifted should be extended from 1 June 2022 to 1 May 2023. That cancellation allows companies to repay the loans early, and we do think that this is a very good flexibility. Then, as a company, you have a larger toolbox in the times of crisis, and we can only back that up. So, of course, we're also voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181815	Thank you for that, and we'll move on to Mr. Knox. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181830	The unitary list may support the elements contained in the proposal. We think that this is a good and sensible proposal, which provides an overall increase in liquidity of 73 billion. kr. This is what is needed, and we want to keep our hands on companies and can therefore support this bill, following on from the comments made by other rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181850	Thank you. The next is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415181900	Thank you. The Corona crisis continues to affect Danish companies and employees, and in particular the catering industry, travel agencies, hotels and shops are also expected in the second quarter of 2021 to be pressured on their liquidity as a result of a lower turnover in time of stricter restrictions. In order to mitigate the economic consequences, the government and the Danish Parliament's parties have inter alia: A number of delays have been made in the payment deadlines for firms and a number of loan schemes have been introduced. However, there are still companies that are at risk of becoming seriously liquid when they have to pay included A tax and labour market contributions as well as VAT in the coming months. I will not repeat the individual elements of the draft law, as several rapporteurs have already done so well before me, but simply state that we in the Conservative People's Party can support the bill. The government writes in the submission of the bill that they want companies to get out of the crisis in the best possible way, and we certainly do so in the Conservative People's Party. That is why we also want to bring forward the reopening plan for Denmark first and foremost. It will be the best thing we can do for the Danish companies, which have been so hard pressed and had to accept various loan offers and deferrals. That is why we also hope that the government will be involved in this kind of advance in the near future. It will be the very best for our society and it will be the very best we can do for our businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415182042	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415182055	The best help we can give the companies right now is that the politicians in here are getting their act together and opening up society and getting away from this principle of overindulgence, which is damaging the Danish economy, harming public health, harming people's ability to have a free and proper life out there. That would be the very best help, and that would also mean that we would limit expenditure and limit all of these schemes that are now being put in the tail of this. But when you don't want to, we won't be pulling the blanket underneath it. So we are going to support it here too, but with a strong appeal for the Danish Parliament to open up to Denmark and abandon this principle of overconfidence, which has been like a duvet across Denmark for far too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415182151	Thank you. There's no one from the Liberal Alliance, so we're moving on to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415182204	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much for your clear support for the bill. I would like to start by once again signing up to the fact that so broad a majority is able to come together in spite of everything very, very large legislative initiatives, which this is also an expression of, and, secondly, that a broad majority has also supported the fact that, in this very extraordinary situation that we are in, we can also deal with the necessary initiatives here after an extraordinary urgent process here in the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you. The government, together with the Danish Parliament's parties, has collaborated on comprehensive aid packages. They have held hands under Danish companies and employees for a very difficult time for both groups. In the field of taxation, we have together taken a whole series of decisions which have helped both Danish companies and also Danish employees. We have among other things. deferred payment by undertakings of A-tax, labour market contribution, B-tax, VAT and payroll tax. In addition, we have introduced loan arrangements for companies that have been able to recover their paid-up A tax and labour market contributions, VAT and payroll tax as a loan. Overall, these initiatives have strengthened the liquidity of Danish companies with just over 490 billion. kr., and help packages have also been paid out for approx. 34 billion kr. There is no doubt that the corona crisis is hard on Denmark. There are a lot of people who have lost their jobs, many companies are hard pressed, and of course the restrictions have also affected many of the activities that bind us together in our communities. The broad political agreement on the reopening of Denmark also means that there is light ahead, the vaccines are released, we take care of each other, and we do so in order to keep the infection down. The government has made it clear from the outset that Danish companies and Danish employees must be helped in the best way possible through the crisis. Many continue to need a helping hand, which is why the government is now proposing to take further liquidity measures. With the bill that we are discussing here today, a good 73 billion will be made available. kr. additionally available to the companies. This is done by extending the loan arrangements for A tax, labour market contributions and VAT. Together with the cash-flow measures already taken here, which, as I said, have strengthened the liquidity of Danish companies with just over 490 billion. kr., there will now be just over 560 billion. kr. available to the companies. This is a significant increase in liquidity, which is of great importance for both Danish companies and Danish employees. A cell phone is now calling the specific bill... Second Vice-President I was really trying to turn off the phone, sorry, tax minister. It's off now). I thought it was not right to rebuke the President, and she seemed to have control of her cell phone, so I was quite comfortable with that, but I continue with my 73 billion. kr. Is that okay? Thank you. Now to the specific legislative proposal. It is proposed, as I have said, to extend the "A' tax loan scheme to include all companies' regular payment of A tax and labour market contribution in April 2021 and also the deferred payment of A tax and labour market contribution in May 2021, i.e. Some 54 billion. kr. This is where companies are made available. The first of May will then be opened for the April payment, and the first of June will then be opened for the May payment. Loans for the April payment shall be repaid no later than 1 February 2023, while loans for the May payment shall be repaid no later than 1 May 2023. In addition, as I said, it is also proposed to extend the VAT loan scheme so that medium-sized enterprises will be able to borrow an interest-free amount equivalent to the VAT to be settled here on 1 June 2021. This isolated arrangement will put an extra 19 billion. kr. available to the companies. This has a very specific impact on individual companies. It is thousands of kroner that companies will be provided with additional liquidity if they wish to avail themselves of the scheme. In addition, as I have said, it is proposed that the period for abolishing the tax account ceiling should be extended from 1 June 2022 to 1 May 2023, and the cancellation would then allow, if you want, the repayment of the loans before the deadlines I mentioned earlier. There is no doubt that the corona crisis is hard on Denmark. It is in relation to public health, it is in relation to the Danish economy, and it is in relation to our labour market. That is why I would like to thank Parliament once again for the fact that, in the difficult time we are in, we are able to come together on such important and major decisions as this is an expression of. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415182729	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415182757	The debate is open. First it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415182807	Thank you. What we are dealing with here is a resolution from the Alternative that wants to provide a number of tax rebates related to repairs and maintenance. The alternative aims to extend the life of a number of product types which, in the opinion of the Alternative, are typically discarded when only a small part of the product or, if you like, the functionality is defective. To that extent, it can actually be a very sympathetic thought. The challenge and problem is that the proposed tax rebates are an expensive and inappropriate way of achieving increased consumption of repair services. Denmark is facing a marked green transition in the coming years. That is why I am very pleased that we have made two major and very important political agreements in this area and that we have succeeded in concluding these agreements in even a very broad majority in the Folketing. Firstly, the agreement on a green tax reform, which is intended to kick-start the green transition in Denmark and which has therefore been concluded by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament. It is an agreement that puts the green transition into a whole new gear and supports that we switch Denmark into a new green reality in the most cost-effective way. Secondly, there is the agreement on the green conversion of road transport, which is intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time ensure that more green cars are put on Danish roads. For, of course, we must be ambitious when it comes to the green transition and ensuring greater sustainability, but it must also be done wisely. There is the proposal for tax rebates specifically on repair services, in the view of the government, as I said, not the best idea. The government cannot therefore support the proposal and I would like to explain why. In concrete terms, the alternative is to reduce VAT from 25%. 12%. on small repairs of bicycles, leather goods and textiles. The Danish VAT system is characterised by the fact that all goods and services are initially charged 25%. VAT. Changing governments have held on to this, for which there are, in fact, a great many good reasons. It goes without saying that a single rate VAT system rather than many different rates is easier to administer, not least for companies, but also, of course, for the authorities. For example, reduced rates create. It is a question of defining problems, which makes it more uncertain to companies whether they are now imposing the right benefits and goods the right VAT rate. The immediate saving of a reduced rate of VAT will be reduced by the increased costs of administering reduced VAT rates. Citizens will therefore not see the VAT reduction fully applied to prices. Furthermore, a reduced VAT on small repairs is not a particularly targeted instrument for promoting sustainable consumption, as it acts, if you like, as a price subsidy which is independent of whether it is actually best for the environment and the economy to repair a particular product. The alternative also proposes that, according to the Swedish model, a tax credit be introduced for repairs and maintenance of household appliances carried out in their own homes. The Government is not in favour of such a proposal which provides for support for private purchases of repair services of a particular type of product from a specific industry. This also applies if the deduction is intended to be introduced through the rules of the housing job scheme. It is therefore not clear that the introduction of deductions for repairs to electrical appliances will result in less resource consumption. Nor can there be any justification for the deduction for repairs to electrical appliances on account of the fact that this is an area where there is considered to be a very high level of undeclared work. Finally, I also think I have to point out that this proposal, depending on the level of ambition, naturally also leaves a financial challenge which may well be quite large. However, although the intentions are actually good enough and the government shares the need for an ambitious green transition, it is important that we ensure that this is done in as cost-effective a way as possible. We're on our way. It will be an ambitious and also a long journey, but the goal is set, and with the agreements made in broad agreement here in the Danish Parliament, we are pleased that we have set a new green course for ensuring a more sustainable and green Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415183309	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415183313	Thank you so much for your speech. In fact, we made this proposal sometime before the end of 2017, I think it was. There was the Swedish scheme new. It is still driving away, and it runs very well both with tax deduction and VAT reduction on repairs. At the same time, our consumption has almost gone crazy. We dispose of ten times more clothes in 2019 than we did in 2015. We discard 90 t electronics against 60 t in 2015. So it's going the wrong way. In Sweden, they are well pleased with their attempts, and we are the only country in Europe that cannot find out how to differentiate VAT. All the other countries can find out in many different ways. But if the tax minister doesn't think this should be the solution, can't the tax minister come up with other solutions from the tax minister's machinery spaces to how we stop this galloping overuse, which leads us to throw away a lot of things, so that instead of perhaps we start repairing some of the things and making quality goods that can last a long time, and then repair them when they break?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415183421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415183422	I very much agree with the basic idea that we need to look more closely at how we can promote the circular economy. That's basically what this is all about. That is why it is one of the things the government is working on in the area of climate change, and I look forward very much to how it can be promoted. After all, we are doing a whole series of things, including in the area of taxation, which is helping to promote the green transition in general, as I said. I know that there have been plenty of discussions after we have made the agreement, but I find it difficult to see, in all modesty, that in the past the Danish tax system has been reformed as ambitiously as it is now on the way to green tax reform. It will be a huge structural change in the Danish tax system. We have reached an agreement to promote green road transport, and if you listen to how it has already put itself in the hands of consumers in purchasing new green cars, then it will be a very, very ambitious transformation of road transport. So we are well on our way, well helped by the Alternative and the majority which is behind the Finance Act and the priorities that are in it and which there is no doubt is helping to set a new green direction for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415183532	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415183534	Thank you. After all, the green tax agreement is really one of the climate agreements that has been most criticised. The government's own Climate Council has really, really criticised it for not coming up with uniform CO2 couldn't this be one of the things that could be included in it, so that we might not be like this, but in other tax engineering ways we're trying to slow down this gigantic consumption? We can see tons of electronics and huge amounts of textiles, which is really CO2 It's just a use and throw away-culture of the worst drawer. Could one not imagine trying to contain it a little if one were to open the tax agreement, and so among other things? Use it for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415183639	We can always discuss initiatives, I am very ready for that, and Mr. Torsten Gejl also knows that we have good discussions on how to promote green consumption and sustainable conversion, including through our tax system. You could say that circular economy is a clue. I think we will certainly come back to that. Another track is the handling of the quantities of waste, which is why agreements have been made on it. And if you look at the climate action plan, which was adopted by a very, very broad majority in the Danish Parliament just under a year ago, then in a whole range of areas it puts very ambitious points of reference for how we come closer to having not only green consumption but also a more green way of life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415183726	Thank you, Minister. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. The first is sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415183751	Thank you for the floor and thank you for tabling this motion for a resolution to reduce VAT on small repairs to bicycles, leather goods and textiles from 25%. 12%. and introduce a tax credit for the repair and maintenance of household appliances carried out in their own homes of 50%. of labour costs. The intention to support a more sustainable consumption pattern is very good, and in the Social Democracy we agree that we must have a more sustainable and circular society. However, we do not think that the resolution provides an appropriate solution, and there are several reasons why we do not think so. If we are to reduce the VAT rate on small repairs, this means that we are breaking with our current VAT system, where we have a uniform VAT rate of 25%. The introduction of such differentiated VAT rates increases the complexity of the VAT system and leads to increased administrative costs for businesses and the tax administration. This does not mean that the lower VAT rate will be fully applied to consumer prices, as the immediate saving will be reduced by increased administrative costs. A reduced VAT on small repairs will at the same time act as a price subsidy which is independent of whether it is actually better for the environment and the economy to repair a particular product. Therefore, it is not a particularly targeted instrument to support more sustainable consumption. In addition, it is proposed that a tax credit be introduced for the repair and maintenance of household appliances carried out in their own homes. The deduction shall be equal to 50%. of labour costs, but limited to DKr 12,000. per person. It is proposed that benefits be integrated into the housing job scheme. This would really be support for private purchase of repair services for a particular type of industry, and that would involve a distortion which the Social Democratic Party cannot support. In addition, it will complicate the housing job scheme and, since the use of undeclared work is not considered to be widespread in the area of repair of household appliances, it is also not possible to argue for any major gain according to the purpose of the housing job scheme. Finally, overall, the proposal will lead to a reduction in the total revenue of approx. 120 million kr. a year after re-entry and behaviour for which no precise financing has been provided. For these reasons, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184035	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184039	That is to say, in Sweden, it is estimated that this money will come back from increased employment in the form of repairs. We'll look into that. However, we are the only country in Europe which is unable to differentiate VAT. Everyone else can find out and sometimes do it in different ways, but also with climate objectives. They all regard the VAT instrument as a tool for promoting certain types of behaviour. So I do not understand how the Socialists can be sure on the contrary to all the other 27 EU countries that it is completely impossible to use it in that way. Could it not be imagined that we are the only ones who have not found out now that it is we who are behind and that it is actually an effective means?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184129	I do not think there is any reason to doubt that differentiated VAT rates will thus increase the complexity of the VAT system and that this will result in increased costs for both companies and tax administration. So it is not certain that this lower VAT rate will be fully applied to consumer prices, and that is why I do not believe that the proposal put forward by the alternative is sufficiently targeted to achieve the benefits in terms of sustainable consumption and in relation to a circular society. I share the intense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184213	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184215	Well then, I would like to hear the rapporteur's proposals on what then needs to be done so that it is effective enough plus that I am thinking: okay, if you do not want to support the repair of certain product types, we can of course extend the product catalogue and perhaps even put it under the green housing job scheme. Could that be an idea? Those were my two questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184237	So, I would like to make it clear that we in the Social Democratic Party believe that the tax rebates proposed here are too expensive and inappropriate a solution to achieve increased consumption of repair services. And again: we are also in favour of a sustainable society, a circular society, but we have some political efforts in these years about a green tax reform, a green transition, a green conversion of road transport, taxes on hazardous waste, taxes on plastic bags and certain forms of packaging, which are much more targeted in the right direction. So that is why it is a rejection of the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184327	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184331	What makes me speak is the rapporteur's comment on VAT rates. So, I have to say that I share the view of the alternative rapporteur, and it cannot be because we see a restriction in our system that we will not do what would be the right thing to do. Then it is fair that we do not agree with the right decisions, but we cannot have it because we have a legal system that cannot deal with it. Then we have to look down to all the countries that have a system that can handle it. After all, we have a somewhat higher rate of VAT than, for example, we do. countries just south, for example. Germany. Can the rapporteur say what positive effects it would have if the VAT rate were reduced in Denmark to a VAT rate, such as VAT? was similar to the rate in the countries around us in that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184419	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184421	Well, from the outset, we are certainly in favour of the circular economy and a sustainable, green society. That is why I have also listed some of the initiatives that we have taken as a government. We are not too differentiated VAT rates, for example. because it would mean increased costs for our companies and for our tax administration, and we are talking about a smaller revenue of 120 million. kr. a year, for which we will then have to find funding. So we are against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184458	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184459	However, if we are now talking about tourism, the rapporteur could put a few words on whether, according to the rapporteur's position, it would have some positive effects that we reduced VAT and what positive effects it would have if we reduced VAT to a level that they have in other countries, for example. In terms of our competitiveness?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184517	Well, we've got right now and right now. in Denmark a uniform VAT system, i.e. at a rate of 25%, and I think that is actually appropriate in all respects. Comparisons can be made with or begin with other countries and with other countries' VAT systems. In fact, I do not think that is appropriate, because that is not the way to draw a comparison between you and one. We have some special conditions that apply in Denmark, and in relation to the green transition and in relation to creating is a circular society and a sustainable, green society, well then the government has started some initiatives that will go in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184619	Thank you again for the floor. As has already been said, this is a return from 2016 to 17, and we have already had a thorough examination of the proposal. I would say that in the Left we are very much in favour of the intentions of this proposal. We had ourselves an Environment Minister who in 2018 launched a strategy for the circular economy. So it is an intention that we fully support, because it is important that we use our things to a greater extent than we do today. Too many things are being discarded that can easily still be used away. So we fully support that intention. However, we have two challenges with the bill. The first is that, in the Left, we are in favour of a single VAT rate, that is what the Minister also described and that is because it is less distorting and it is less bureaucratic than if you differentiate VAT. We have one of the world's most complicated tax systems, I think. It is an extremely complex tax system, and if we start to differentiate VAT, it is something that will seriously complicate it further, and it is simply one thing that we cannot support because of the problems of demarcation and because of the additional bureaucracy that may exist. The second part we are concerned about in the proposal is that it is not financed, nor is it indicated what it costs. We in the Left are financially responsible and we cannot support proposals that we do not know what costs and we do not know how to finance them. So it is the two major drawbacks of the proposal that make us unable to support it, but we fully agree with the alternative in the intention to promote the circular economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184752	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184754	Sometimes it's funny, because it works fine in other countries. After all, they introduced it in Sweden, and we checked with the Swedish Skatterverket, and they are excited about it. Both the reduced VAT and the deduction are used and function well. Does the rapporteur not know that feeling? It works well in other countries, and now it has worked for some years, and they are happy with it, and then you think: Why can't it be introduced in Denmark? It's like there's something wrong that you can't quite see. Does the rapporteur know that it may be impossible to understand why we cannot simply move something here that is so much needed and that works elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184838	I understand, and one of the things that I actually find most inspiring is getting out into the world and getting inspiration from elsewhere, because you can learn something new. I have been with the Tax Committee in Stockholm before and talked to them about their RUT, so I have had a thorough introduction to it, and I also think it is a really exciting proposal in general with RUT. But I must also say that the Swedish tax system seems quite different from the Danish one in many areas. Although there are things that sound the same, it really seems different than it does in Denmark, and their RUT also seems different from our housing job scheme. So I do not necessarily believe that it is as easy to transfer things from Sweden as you might think, because we are neighbouring countries and you think that you can just do that, but our tax system is just completely different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184922	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415184925	Yes, that is clear, but there are 25 other countries in Europe with different tax systems, some of which are more similar to the Danish one, which can easily find out. I simply think that sometimes we just lag behind and cannot figure out how to use the tools that are just because you want to do as usual. However, the bourgeois government introduced an increased repair limit for cars in 2017, where they went in and used this type of tool. Could the rapporteur imagine other areas where it could be used?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185004	We will be open to looking at different options. There is no doubt about that. So all you have to do is give up, and then we'd like to look at what you're bringing in and look at it with an open mind. So it is not because we reject things blankly. It is not at all that, but we cannot be in favour of moving away from unitary VAT. We believe that there are some advantages that outweigh the disadvantages. And then it's not funded. All proposals must be funded before we can support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185030	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185042	Thank you. As I said, this is a re-submission of a proposal that we had before a few years ago. I myself was the rapporteur on this at the time, after all, it is a disadvantage when you have been the tax rapporteur for many years and we voted no last time, and I can tell you that we are doing it this time too. The aim is, of course, to reduce consumption and to throw away the trend and to make things more repairable, and we think that is, in fact, a good and relevant discussion and a real problem that is out there, as Mr. Torsten Gejl has also already mentioned in several brief remarks. Because it's important that things are repaired when it makes sense, or that we recycle things if we can. In fact, I myself have been on a board of directors of a company that recycled car tires, which were converted into artificial grass into football fields, and I have found out here a few weeks ago that a company has then arrived, which recycles the synthetic football fields when they are worn out, to make a new product. So the development is running very well out there already now in many good areas, and that is quite positive, and we just need more of that, so people also use the technology to be able to reuse the products for everything else well, instead of turning into new things that are then just thrown away. So we certainly agree with the agenda, which is being raised here, but we just do not believe that it is the tax system that is the right model for lifting it. For a great many things are already being repaired today, and that is quite positive. There are small shops, for example. In my town, Herning, where you can go down and quite cheaply get a new zipper in e.g. his jacket or in his pants, or whatever it may be, instead of throwing it away. So there are already some who make a living from it out there, and that is also where the disadvantage comes in, because by lowering VAT you will have to give a discount on some things that people do on a large scale already. In other words, a lot of people, including myself, may go to the bike dealer to change the chain or to change the saddle if it is broken or whatever it may be, so by lowering the VAT you will also be able to support a lot that is already being made, and that makes it quite expensive compared to the effect you get from it. I admit that it may have an effect... it's not that... but it's just an expensive way to get the effect, and that's more what I'm after. Then I also have the challenge of being in favour of a fixed unit VAT. Well, it's easier to manage, and you don't get these boundary problems, because how much do you have to change on the bike before it's suddenly a new bike? We may agree that it is not patching the bicycle deck, but is it putting on some brand new tires, the frame has now also come along, is it a new gear system? Well, when did it go from being something that you've repaired and made modern to suddenly having a new bike? So it presents some challenges, even just to take the questions in advance. We can also see that VAT could be differentiated in the sense that you can have a zero rate, and you actually do now, but having different rates does not seem to me to be a good idea. I think it is strange, for example, that we have VAT on a veterinary bill. Why should the state make money to go down and help your dog if it's sick or some other thing? Seems weird. So put it down to zero instead, but a differentiated VAT just gives these boundary problems with when a bike is new and when it is used, and I don't think that's a good way to do it. But I admit that you could choose to do so, it is a purely political choice, and that is what you decide for yourself, and there is nothing to prevent it from doing so. The second part, with a tax credit on household goods, is also slightly the same discussion, which means that there is not necessarily the best environmental benefit of continuing to repair anything. Do you have to repair a washing machine that has a D energy label if you could get a new one that was A+? Then the question is whether you can't use the parts of the old washing machine to switch to something else is obviously a good idea but that you keep repairing the old washing machine, which is not energy efficient, is not necessarily the best solution for the environment. So I actually believe that the solution is to a greater extent that one, for example. must set some product requirements so that you can actually separate the parts and have them used for something else. There may also be pawns on different things, so you actually put a deposit and get an economic incentive for you to deliver things so that the products can be collected and used on something else. So there are plenty of good solutions that you can use to support it, but my point is that the same tax system may not necessarily be the best idea to do it with, and that is at least my argument. So, although we agree with the intentions and think it is good that we should take up the discussion, I think it would also be good to do so in committees other than the Committee on Taxation, because that is probably where many of the other solutions I have mentioned lie.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185455	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185457	Thank you for a good and detailed speech, just like the one made by the rapporteur when we made it here a few years ago. But also with many of the same points. In other words, does the rapporteur know that, according to Norstat's study, three out of four Danes want us to differentiate VAT? Shouldn't we politicians sometimes listen to the people? It is not a, what can be said, a terrible desire or an immoral desire or an unethical desire. It is just a desire to be allowed to pay less to repair, and yes, more for something that on the other hand may harm the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185545	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185546	Actually, I'm glad that Mr. Knox... Torsten Gejl has noticed that it was about the same speech, not quite, but roughly the same speech. And we also mean the same thing, fortunately, so it is probably not so surprising that it will be a little the same arguments I use again. I fully admit that I also get a lot of requests from people who would like differentiated VAT, and that is a real point of view, and I am not saying that this is impossible either. It is a political choice not to do so. I think it is a good discussion to take whether VAT should be on or not, but the differentiated VAT is difficult. In other words, there were some people in the debate who said that, for example, we were talking. could reduce VAT in hotels, for example. or an amusement park. But what about the amusement park compared to stalls selling beer to a low VAT rate, but if I go to the square instead, do they also have low VAT? Then they may outcompete the bar, which has not got a rate that is lower. And that causes some delimitation problems and some competition problems, and that is why I have chosen to stick to it on behalf of my party, that I think it should be one's VAT. In other words, there is a little the same as when it comes to lower VAT on healthy foods. When, then, is it a healthy food? We can probably agree that a cucumber or a carrot is a healthy food. But where does the border go? You get some delimitation problems, compared to when you can do it. Just like a kiosk can bring all the goods in like carrots, even if they have sold candy, for example. So it gives fraud and something in terms of demarcation, which I think is the disadvantage of it. So that's why we've chosen not to do it. But I admit that it is a legal political view and a tool that can be used if you want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185703	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185704	Are there any other tools that the rapporteur would prefer? Well, we throw out ten times more textiles in 2019 than we did in 2015. It's an exploding consumption of textiles, and they're poisonous, they're environmentally devastating, they're emitting CO2 It's just the wrong overuse. What can you imagine? How can you stem this from, for example? with fiscal tools?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185730	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185731	Thank you for the question. I do not really think that the tax instrument is a good tool for this. But there are a lot of other things you can do and where some of them are also going on. Well, one of the things is to use the technology, what I mentioned, in relation to the company that I myself have been a part of. And there will be new companies that will recycle the used product again. Well, the technology solves part of it. But otherwise, I also believe in making product demands. In other words, as we can do, typically in relation to the European Union, and it could also be that Denmark could do it itself. It could also be a requirement for textiles to ensure that they become decent products, in relation to what kind of dyes and things you use, so that it is not so harmful to the environment. But I also think that we could use things that we have been successful with in Denmark to a greater extent, for example. to use the deposit system, which depends on bottles, but then use it for other things. I mean, could you imagine you bought a cell phone and had to get rid of a mortgage for it, and then when you handed it in, you got the money back? At least you wouldn't smash it or throw it away. Cell phones are so maybe a bad idea, I don't know, but the idea of it is that you use the pawn more. I believe that this is what needs to be done so that we can actually ensure that the products are delivered in the right place and that they can then be reused. But tax increases don't seem to me to be the best tool for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185830	Thank you, too, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, and we move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415185848	Speak for it. What we are discussing now is an excellent proposal from the Alternative to halve VAT on repairs. I myself, personally, have previously proposed that VAT on repairs should be eliminated altogether, so it is difficult to be anything but positive about this. We talk a lot about having a use and throwing away culture in our society, and Mr. Torsten Gejl also mentioned it earlier. But I actually think it's important to remember that we don't just have a use and throw away culture, in that it's something we as individuals run and do, but that we have a use and throw away economy, a use and throw away system that requires use and throw away. So it's not just because we have some bad values, culturally or humanly, but we actually have a system that requires this. That is why I think it is important that we also have some systemic interventions to change that. And I think this proposal is an example of that. We see companies who deliberately make products that do not hold very well, products that are designed to break up early, and there is generally a strong economic incentive in many contexts for the individual to throw out instead of repairing what you already have, and that is a problem. Therefore, this is also something that we in the SF have taken quite seriously for a long time. We have come up with many proposals, including: to extend the right of complaint so that companies are pressured to make products that last, because consumers can have their things repaired free of charge if they break within the complaint. I also think that this proposal has something sensible in it, because it will not only make more people repair more, probably, but also because it will also be a tax reduction that is targeted at those who are already making an effort, and I think that is fair enough. I also think it sends an important signal from Christiansborg that we have to change our habits There are a lot of people who want to repair their things, but experience that it is not worthwhile, and now a little has already been said about bicycles from up here, and then I would like to share an experience that I myself had recently. I should have repaired a bicycle pedal, and then the bicyclesmith says to me that it doesn't really pay to make it, but he wants to install two new ones instead. And it's annoying, because it just doesn't pay to get it fixed, but better pay to get some new ones produced and put them on, when I really just wanted to get it fixed. That is why we need to tackle this systemically. In fact, it is also quite well documented that people will be more positive about climate and environmental policy measures if they themselves make sustainable choices in their daily lives. And it does not really have to be the case that they make the sustainable choices for sustainability reasons. It may well be that they just do it for economic reasons, like that, for example. is cheaper to get repaired. But when they do these things in everyday life, they start to see themselves more as sustainable choices, and then they come in favour of more progressive environmental and climate policy, and that is why I think there is something sensible in pushing in this direction, so that people actually feel that they are part of the sustainable transformation, what we should like people to do. We have discussed this proposal in part in the SF, including the concrete one from the Alternative. And the people in this Chamber can hear that we are very much in favour of the proposal, but we also think that there are some problems in the concrete form that I would like to address here. There are, for example: e.g. Some cases where there is likely to be better, that you buy something new instead of repairing something old that is not as climate-friendly; that you switch to a more climate-friendly model. We also lack an analysis of the behavioural effect. I think it is relevant to look at the initiative in Sweden, we can delve into it more so that we learn more about what this will actually have in effect if we adopt it. Nor do I think it is quite clear in the proposal where the limits should go. In other words, what repairs are to be carried out under this, and at least we must be very clear about this if we are to set it up in such a way that we do not create any problematic incentives. There is also a lack of funding in the proposal, and it is of course also central if we are to be able to support it, and we are not completely clear about potential costs either. In addition, a risk of fraud has also been pointed out, as the Minister also pointed out, and this is often something we are confronted with when we talk about differentiated VAT, and I think that is also important to deal with. Then I think we could also see if there were wiser ways to do some of the same thing. Well, in SF we have, for example. I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal is to make repairs to household appliances part of the housing job scheme, and then you can have some of the same effect, but in a way that may not give the officials gray hair on their heads. And it's kind of nice for us to look at it too. The important thing is the effect, and not how to exactly recognise it. So all in all, it is for me to see a pretty good proposal which has good intentions and which I can actually support far along the way too. But there are also some shortcomings in the concrete form and some problems that we see, and which must at least have been worked on further and fleshed out further if we are to be able to continue working on them in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415190350	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415190353	Thank you for the words, thank you for the speech, and thank you for the commitment. After all, the rapporteur starts by saying that the rapporteur himself has proposed to remove VAT on repairs completely. We would like to take part in this in the alternative. But you also have a group, and so do we in the alternative. One can say that we did, but we actually still have it; it is just very small; it is just me and all the people who help me, and I am also listening to them, as well as the rapporteur is listening to his group. I have always been loyal to these people, both when we were many, and now that it's just me, and I think you should. But what I am wondering a little bit is that the problem has become bigger, that is, we are throwing away even more than when we discussed this for the first time. The Swedish model turns out to work. At the same time, however, SF's support is actually more reserved than last time. What's the point?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415190454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415190455	I do not think that is correct. So, last time this was discussed in the Folketing, I do not think that our rapporteur, Mrs Lise Bech Poulsen, appeared, unfortunately, but Enhedslisten had a greeting from her. That is why the SF did not say very clearly where we were actually related to this. It is true that we have some reservations; I have mentioned them all quite systematically, but we also think that this is a very positive proposal in many ways, so I was actually trying to make a speech which could qualify the debate as such in order to look at what shortcomings there were, also in order to clear them out, so that we might end up making a proposal that we would be able to support. At least it's a road I'd love to see you go. But it should also be no secret that we in the SF are having a bit of difficulty with differentiated VAT and can see some problems about it, even though there may be some advantages. That is why I think it is a complicated debate, and that is probably most of all what I have to say, so that we think that the intention is good, that there are plenty of good elements in the proposal and we support it far along the way, but there are also some problems we would like to point out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415190554	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415190554-2	That's quite fair. We will look at how we should proceed with it, whether we should proceed by making a report or what we should do. There is strong inspiration from Sweden and the problem is growing. The Swedish model is happy over there. They've used it quite diligently. There is such a tendency among many in this Chamber to say that we must not touch the Danish VAT system at all. It is as if it is elevated to such a kind of religious law, while all the other countries of Europe can find out. Does the rapporteur have any comments on this? Does the rapporteur also think that in itself it is almost the case that you should not touch that system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415190637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415190638	No, I think we can look at differentiated VAT, and when Denmark is the only country in the European Union that does not, I think it is clear that it is possible to do so. However, I am also listening when the Ministry says that there may be some major administrative challenges and that there may also be some problems with fraud, and we are looking at that quite seriously. In fact, I have just talked to my parliamentary group about the fact that we would also like to have a major debate in the SF parliamentary group about the possibility of making differentiated VAT and how it might be possible to do so. So I'm open to it, but I also see some problems with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415190707	Then we thank the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415190724	Thank you. Thank you very much to the alternative for focusing on our use and throwing away culture, this is an extremely important agenda. But I would just like to mention an agreement that has not actually been mentioned by anyone including the Minister for Culture yet, and it is not even a year since we made it. With the exception of individual parties in here, we made a climate plan for a green waste sector and a circular economy in June 2020. The alternative was also included in the agreement. It contains primarily tangible targets for the waste sector and a number of less concrete objectives, it seems to me, for the other circular economy, where it was still mostly about visions and strategies, and there we are missing something more concrete from the government, perhaps together with the other supporting parties. The agreement was formed on the shoulders of the efforts of the climate partnership for waste, water and circular economy, which presented a number of concrete and ambitious recommendations to the government. Analysis shows that 55%. of global CO2 comes from materials and products that we consume. The alternative is absolutely right that we have a huge problem, and I think we have all acknowledged that. In other words, we only reach half the target of reducing CO2 The rest is to be recovered from our consumption. t CO2 This is clearly also what the alternative focuses on here, i.e. use and throw away culture. However, as the climate partnership also recommends, the way forward must therefore be to design, produce and consume more circularly, while at the same time reusing our waste and reducing our CO2 Climate Partnership has never said a word about either reduced VAT rate or increased tax deductions. It's worth noticing. Although, as a tax rapporteur, you may sometimes feel that all the world's problems can be tackled with taxes, this very complex problem is not on the list of things that tax can fix. Both the problem of demarcation and the problem of control, mentioned by other rapporteurs, are very easy to see, both in terms of reduced VAT and in terms of deduction, where repairs become de facto part of the housing job scheme, as I see the alternative's proposal. In addition, we learn from similar measures, both at home and abroad, that such reductions tend to put themselves in the price, which only increases as much as VAT or deduction deducts. We can do that, for example. also look at the housing job scheme, at the artisan allowance in particular right now, when prices just rise and rise on the service. In addition, there is a considerable administrative burden, which I do not think is in line with the effect I am counting on the alternative here. That is why, overall, the Radical Left does not support the proposal as it stands, but absolutely the intention in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191045	Thank you. I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191048	Now that this way of using VAT works as it should and as it is intended but does not work, and we cannot use fiscal solutions to this, why does the rapporteur think that so many other European countries are doing so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191110	I assume that when the rapporteur says that, then, it is the differentiation of VAT that is meant. Yes, that can be done in the context of the European Union. VAT can be reduced as much as 15%, EU countries have the opportunity to put their own VAT rates, and what they do in other countries and burden themselves with administrative costs is not, after all, about what you can find out and what you cannot find out and what you choose to do politically. So the rapporteur has a long way to go when he says why we cannot just do it. We could do so, but there are therefore some administrative burdens associated with what is not in line with that effect. I believe, in line with DF's rapporteur, that many of those who already have repairs will end up with, I'm sorry, end up doing it, regardless of whether there is VAT or not. So I simply do not believe that this is the strong incentive to get these things done. Actually, I think we're kind of opening a barn gate for some cheating and deception.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191211	It is good when rapporteurs correct themselves. Kathrine On Saturday Yes, please). Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191213	I forgot to thank you for a good speech, because it was actually, and also thanks for your commitment. We do not understand why differentiated VAT and tax deductions do not have a place in the climate partnership dialogue. We just don't get it. It's also a mystery to us that sometimes in this little country we think we're smarter than all the others and just keep our little dish.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191250	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191252	Now, in the Radical Left, we believe that, with our agreement on green tax reform, we actually still have a hope that it can bring us into line with what was intended when we started talking about it, so I do not think we have a climate debate. In fact, I think that a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191318	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191334	Thank you. As I also said on behalf of the Enhedslisten four years ago, we are in favour of this proposal. We think, as at the time, that there are some things to be taken into account in relation to the discussions we have on the proposed elements. Firstly, the producers and their responsibility for more sustainability must be carefully looked at. Unfortunately, many products are built in order that after a few years they break or do not last, so people buy new ones, and that is why, of course, product liability has to be looked at here. Secondly, it also calls for a debate on the categories of goods to be covered by VAT reliefs and which are to be subject to deduction and what is the argument that these are the product groups covered by this motion for a resolution. You can discuss that, but what about mobile phones, music systems, televisions, computers or other things that are not included in this proposal? Thirdly, it also requires very strict rules on what a repair is and what an improvement is, so as to avoid abuse of a scheme and an unmanageable burden of control by the Tax Office. We should not have a situation in which, for example, we have a situation. can buy some very cheap and scraped versions of different products and then buy extra equipment as repairs and thus exploit the scheme in a way that was not intended. After all, it must be ensured that the scheme is made in such a way as to prevent things from being thrown out. Furthermore, there is, of course, the fact that the proposal has not been financed, and that would mean, in normal circumstances, that we would say that we would not be voting in favour of a proposal, but what is the approach on our part is that we see it as a proposal, so if there were a majority in favour of it and it is adopted, we will sit down around a table and discuss how, on the basis of the proposal put forward by the Alternative, we can make some sensible steps, including, of course, how we find the concrete funding for it. So if there is a majority in favour of it, we see it as an opportunity for us to sit down around a table and negotiate in this direction, and with those comments we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191548	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191549	Thank you very much, both for a good speech and for doing a little bit of explaining the position of Enhedslisten, and thank you for being so progressive. We want to help specify product groups and we want to help specify when these repairs are to be made. We want to take this proposal forward, and we are glad that the Enhedslisten does not automatically have the idea that the VAT screw should not be turned on, not under any circumstances. So I'm really looking forward to just trying to move on. It is very, very rare that I think this is the first time I have ever tabled resolutions, but it is because the problem is getting bigger and it works in Sweden. Last time we didn't have a proper afterplay for this, but I think we should do it this time, because I think it's just got more topical, so thank you to Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191642-2	You're welcome. If I have to say something, I would like to say that you can look at whether there are some things that would be more obvious or easier to tackle if you want to promote circular consumption, for example. to extend the right of complaint or to look precisely at producer responsibility or to see whether putting taxes on something or making aid schemes for specific products is not an easier way to do that • Several other rapporteurs have also said so. However, if we then use it as a justification for rejecting this proposal, then perhaps those parties should be a little more up to speed in relation to actually supporting the measures that should then be easier to implement, and there I think there are some parties here today who have a problem of explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191728	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks as I see it. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415191754	Thank you for that and thank you for the alternative proposal. We are dealing with a resolution dealing with a number of tax rebates relating to repair and maintenance. With the motion for a resolution, the alternative is to reduce VAT on small repairs to bicycles, leather goods and clothing from the current 25 to 12%. In addition, the alternative also wants a tax credit for repairs and maintenance of household appliances, which must be 50%. of the cost of work, but max. 12,000 kroner. In the Conservative People's Party, we think it is a very sympathetic proposal. We very much agree with the intention that we should move more away from consumption and throw away society and a culture that does, but it must also make sense and we are not quite sure that this is the right way to go. For does the premise stand when it comes to the matter? Isn't a lot of household appliances already being recycled and repaired today? And if they are not recycled, will not part of the components from them be recycled later? Do we not risk taking a misguided climate view if, with a tax credit in the back, we repair old white goods that are not close to being as energy efficient as a new alternative would be? If this results in people holding on to less energy-efficient household appliances for a longer time instead of replacing them with new, modern, energy-efficient household appliances, then it does give a climate backlash. At least it can do it. I would also like to ask the proposer how exactly these selected product groups have been identified. Why, for example, do you have one? Not electronics with? As far as I understand, the Swedish RUT scheme referred to in the proposal does not have the same limitations. So I'm just a little curious about why you've made the cut right where you have. Specifically, in relation to small repairs to bicycles, I think that people are not already doing so today, that is to say they will have their bike repaired if it breaks? I don't think I know anyone who would throw their bike out if it just needed to be repaired. So with the proposal here, we can risk that people who go down anyway and get their bike repaired today will actually just get it done cheaper on the taxpayer's expense well to notice. At the same time, it will make our tax system even more troublesome than it already is. Of course, the increase in textile consumption is worrying, but I also think that in some places there is good development in relation to use and throw away society. A massive majority of Danes believe that the challenges of the climate will only be solved if each of us takes a personal responsibility to behave sustainably, while more than seven out of ten Danes believe that we need to change our lifestyle and cut consumption if we are to save the climate. We also see that workshops and small repair cafés are shooting up more and more around, and that is also positive. And there are several startups that have gone into that trend of buying used IT equipment from the public sector or companies, which they then completely repair or recycle components from to new devices and then sell on. There is therefore a positive trend, which is also reflected in the fact that in recent years we have seen a large boost in the number of recycling shops and digital recycling platforms. The financing possibilities, as pointed out, are not exactly our cup of tea either. We do not want to introduce new or higher taxes in order to give tax rebates on, for example. small repairs of bicycles. However, we would very much like to be involved in looking at whether we can agree on some other measures that can increase the durability of products. In our climate action, we pointed out, as the SF also mentioned earlier, that we could look at an extension of the warranty law, which is now 2 years old. This will increase the incentive for companies to improve the durability of their products. The extension of the right of complaint should, of course, take place after discussions with the relevant professional and consumer organisations. Compared with the other Nordic countries, Denmark has a relatively short period of complaint. In Sweden the warranty law applies for 3 years, while in Norway and Iceland it applies for 2 years for clothing, but 5 years for electronics and household appliances. By extending the complaint period, we increase consumer rights, create incentives for increased durability and reduce CO2 So we would really like to engage in dialogue with the other parties on this. But on that basis, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192308	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192310	Thank you. In most of my youth, before I knew I was going into politics, the Conservatives stood like those who fought the tax burden hardest of all. I have just had to ask another Conservative rapporteur in another debate why a marginal tax of 70% would be retained. for families affected by the mutual allowance, but I am not going to challenge this rapporteur on that. However, I would like to ask: the Conservatives do not want to reduce VAT, the Conservatives do not want to contribute to tax reductions on repairs; what has happened to the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192351	We in Conservatives would very much like to reduce the tax, and we also have a large number of different resolutions that will be dealt with here in the Parliamentary Chamber in the coming period, which is about lowering the tax. However, if we are to give priority to reducing the tax, it is not exactly in this area that we give priority to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192410	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192410-2	Fair answer. As to whether recycling and waste are going the right way, and so on, I am also happy with small repairer cafés; I am also happy with recycling shops; I am also happy with all the things that grow up. However, I do not understand how the Conservative rapporteur can say that things are going the right way. Well, we threw away ten times more clothes in 2019 than in 2015. In 2019 90 tonnes of electronics are thrown out, and in 2015 it is just 60 tonnes. So how can the rapporteur say that it is going the right way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192446	If sir... Torsten Gejl had listened, he had heard that I also recognised that it is a problem that there is a higher consumption of textiles and clothing. I also asked the rapporteur why electronics were not included here, because it is also one of the places where there is huge consumption. However, I recognise that there is a higher level of consumption, but I also think that there are some trends that make us develop in this area, and also in relation to the general interest in the population to be more sustainable and to take personal responsibility. I think that should also be acknowledged.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192519	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and after a little cleaning it is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192536	Thank you. After almost two years, I have calculated the little trick: if the rapporteurs from up here start by saying that this is a sympathetic proposal, then they will vote against, so I fear it a little now, because I have a proposal that is being dealt with in a few moments, so I will notice very much what people start by saying, and if they start by saying that it is a sympathetic proposal, then I will hurry myself up a little bit. But after two years, I've caught it. With this suggestion, I feel a little like Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, where, on the one hand, I welcome the tax cuts and, on the other, I resent the moralizing way of using taxes to get people to do something certain I just don't like it. So I stand on one side and rejoice, and on the other side I say deaf. That's kind of how I feel about this proposal. That is why we may end up voting yellow for this in the New Citizens' Party, because we are happy with tax reductions, but it also has something to do with the way it is knitted together in terms of funding, some taxes that rise and some things like that. So there are a number of things in a number of areas that we are not quite a fan of. But I am glad that we have the debate and I would like to commend the alternative for raising it. Because I hear, for example, that SF says: Hey, is this something we should perhaps consider putting into a housing job scheme? And I think that is actually very constructive, and then I ask if it could not actually be reasonably simply moved under it so that the alternative can get some of the things they want and the housing job scheme might be used better than it is at present. I do not know whether a CO2 calculation has been made with regard to the housing job scheme as it is being calculated right now. Conservatives are involved in perhaps working with guarantees and such things, and I just heard that the Danish People's Party was talking about pledges, so there are actually constructive proposals from all kinds of sides. My attempt at a constructive drive-in is about one of the things that also makes us throw things away is that we buy cheap things because we cannot afford to buy the good quality things. I heard the rapporteur say that we are throwing away many textiles, and there I can say that to my boyfriend's great regret it is not something that I contribute quite a lot to • she might like me to contribute a little to it with some clothes • so there I do my climate effort. So don't say that we're not green in New Citizens we keep the same clothes for really, very many years. Perhaps that could be something you could look at, that is, the thing about giving people the opportunity to buy better products. And it can be in many ways. Car tax is a good example. Because of these massive taxes, it is simply impossible for the Danes to buy cars that can actually last for many years, and then they are now buying something that does not last very long. The same applies to clothing. Because of the high taxes and taxes you have to pay, there may be problems in buying clothes that can last for years. So because they may not have that much money in the account, people may choose the IKEA furniture • and there's nothing wrong with IKEA furniture or anything else • because that's what they have money for on the account, and after 2 years they have just the money on the account to make it change again. I am a citizen, so of course I think that people are completely free of what they want, but that may be the reason why they do not choose to buy an oak furniture that may last for 20 years, because it may cost DKK 30,000 to 40,000, and it is money they do not have in the account because they are unfortunately constantly being slaughtered in taxes from in here. So you could also look into this with other glasses on it, and it should then be my kick in to come up with a constructive proposal on what to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192917	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415192919	Thank you for not starting by commending the proposal. I also hope that the rapporteur will not have the impression that everyone starts by congratulating the rapporteur on the next point. And thank you for listening carefully and following the debate. Well, it is true that there are many good ideas. And it could be fun to take some of them up to find out that these aren't just excuses for not voting for this. There are, for example: an extended deposit scheme, which is certainly not stupid, or a longer warranty, that is to say that producers can guarantee that these products will last longer than 2 years. I think those who have the 2-year warranty tend to break after 2 years and also better products. We have to produce quality goods that can be repaired and that we can use over and over again. So thank you for summing it up. What I want to ask is VAT. Does the rapporteur belong to the team which believes that VAT is untouchable, or will the rapporteur perhaps also be able to envisage using it to regulate different types of behaviour?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415193023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415193024	The first is that I do not agree with the latter. We are not in favour, for example, of the fact that we are in favour. raises charges to regulate people. If a tax is abolished or a tax reduced, we will probably vote in favour, because we would like to see it reduced further. But I think you make a mistake by thinking that it doesn't matter what other countries do. I heard some people say that. We do not think so at all. In other words, VAT is a competitive parameter and when other countries have VAT rates on tourism, which are much lower, Danish tourism is detrimental to the fact that we have such high VAT rates as we have. Of course we would like to see VAT reduced in general in this way, but we do not have an ideological relationship with VAT. We consider VAT like all other tax products, namely that it is something that can be used to reduce taxes for the benefit of the Danish economy. When people talk about this being a very, very complex system of VAT and deductions and those things I heard many people say that we had to simplify the tax rate, I think, and I hope that I get support for a proposal that I think I will put forward on the question of harmonising the right of deduction on some VAT rates. I'll see if people bite to fuck on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415193128	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415193142	We citizens in Denmark are among those who produce the most waste: 844 kg per year. people, plus what is being produced in industry and retailing. This corresponds to the fact that, if we were to burden the planet climate-neutrally, we would need four planets. So something clearly needs to be done in relation to our waste generation. We have good examples here in Denmark of some taking the bull by the horns. At Bornholm they have decided that they will be incinerated in 2032, so it is a matter of having some visions and achieving a goal. This is a good initiative which we support in the Free Greens, but it does not solve the problem of companies producing low-quality goods and because they are cheap, it will be something like buying, using and throwing away, because they cannot be repaired. That is why, as has been suggested in the past, we also think that we should look at the right of complaint so that companies are forced to produce goods that have a quality so that they can actually keep. Although circular economy is mentioned in the waste agreement of 2020, it is amazing that initiatives such as this, which relate to long-term products, were not included in that agreement, especially as the alternative is included in the agreement. Repair is an essential tool for recycling, so it doesn't just make sense to throw things away, and you could have taken it into the garbage agreement too in relation to getting a circular economy. There is also very little regulation of industry in the very same agreement. There is only one thing that increases producer responsibility for packaging. In the Free Greens we would have liked to have had the right of complaint and many other things in terms of promoting the circular economy in the waste agreement, and we would also have liked to have had a CO2 which is why we are not included in the agreement. But this proposal is a proposal which is in the right direction, and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415193407	Thank you. There are no brief comments. After a little despriting, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415193431	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we will end use and throw out the culture and, of course, focus more on sustainability in our consumption patterns. Since the advent of the consumer society in the 1960s, companies have increasingly speculated on producing products that do not have a long life, simply to keep business going. I remember when I was younger driving Volvo Amazons around, and they were impossible to get rid of, because they could simply drive forever. Finally, they were abolished, because nobody could make money from it. We have also seen examples of planned obsolescence where products have an in-house malfunction, which means that after a while they simply fall apart. It is clear that things are not going any further, because we are not a place where we can allow this kind of thing anymore. We need to address the problem and introduce measures that promote an economy and a society that is not based on use and throw away culture. We cannot continue to buy a lot of cheap things, which also means that we cannot afford the expensive quality things. In concrete terms, the alternative to this proposal is to promote two measures. Firstly, we would like to reduce the VAT rate on small repairs from 25% to 12%. on bicycles, leather goods, textiles, and we are open to expanding the product range. Secondly, we will introduce a tax credit for the repair of household appliances if the repair is carried out in our own home, up to DKr 12,000. per person. This applies to hobs, ovens, washing machines and other household appliances. Here, too, we are talking about developing the product catalogue. With the motion for a resolution, the alternative seeks to provide incentives to move from the more harmful consumption culture towards a circular economy. By providing tax rebates related to repairs and maintenance, we want to extend the lifetime of a number of product types that are typically discarded today when only a small part of the product or functionality is defective. Sometimes you are almost encouraged to buy a new bike, as long as there is something wrong with the pedal. In any case, my bike dealer urged me to do so, which I did not accept. By introducing lower VAT on repairs and maintenance of goods, we are providing an economic incentive that sends out a clear signal that we want a more sustainable and circular society. It will help to put an end to the habit of thinking. We're gonna go from use to use and keep. This means that we must produce quality goods that can be repaired and maintained for many, many years, and we must not just have a circular economy, but a circular society. What we were hoping to achieve with the resolution was to shift the focus to buying quality products that last and then prolong the life of the products. Who knows if New Citizens aren't really on the right track when it comes to clothes. Maybe in 5-10 years. We have two shirts, but in return they are so fat, and they last forever, and then you swap them after 10 years for two others that are equally durable and good. It may sound like a brave new world, but it may actually be the way we should, in other words, have some quality products that last right, for a very long time and which we want to repair and adjust etc. etc. But we are aware that these deductions that we are proposing here cannot be left alone, but we hope that it can start and supplement a debate on how to focus on use and throw away the problem. We tabled a resolution similar to this in 2017, where we received support from the SF and the Enhedslisten. The Radicals were positive, but chose to wait for a report on the circular economy of the then government, which then appeared without having any special initiatives supporting repairs, except for an increased repair limit for cars. We are now putting forward the resolution again, and that is because we are throwing out products like never before. I have read with horror the tables on how it just continues and continues, and it is as if the products last less time. Do you know the one with black jeans? They can't even be washed anymore. Half of them can't be washed, because then there'll be white stripes like that. I've seen more people in the Folketing walking around with them, so I'm sure some people know them. It is as if they are committed to keeping worse and worse. At the same time, this scheme has actually turned out to be you in Sweden. We've had our hands on Skatterverket today, and they were happy with the arrangement. The VAT rate has been reduced by half on 1 January, for example. clothes, bicycles and shoes, and at the same time it has been introduced that Swedes can deduct labour costs from taxes when appliances are repaired at home. It has of course been interesting for us to follow developments, and we have been in contact with a number of Swedes and have tried to understand their tax engineering language today, and they report that the scheme works well and that in 2018 45,000 people used the tax credit for repairs at the price of 31 million Swedish kroner, and that lower VAT on repairs has been spent to a degree that has cost 300 million Swedish kroner. In Sweden, it is estimated that this money will come back in the form of increased employment, and it is clear that such a large amount of repairs will provide employment. After all, we cannot guarantee that the Swedes are right about the fact that everything is coming back, and that is why we have of course also provided a few financing opportunities with, among other things. tax on some of the strongest toxins. And in Sweden it is actually expected that many immigrants will get to work because many may not have higher education, but they may be able to repair. At least that is what has been expected in Sweden. In Denmark, a model that has been implemented in Sweden can be introduced. If we are to have a more sustainable and circular society, tax reductions and repairs are, of course, only a tiny part of the solution, I must admit that everyone who has been involved in the debate is a very important start. Unfortunately, the important start has not found support in the Folketing. I have experienced positive bets from Enhedslisten and SF's side compared to trying to adjust this in place and find out what kind of product groups should be in the catalogue, what kind of repairs we need to do. Perhaps we can maneuver some report in place, which certainly allows us to continue working on it. However, in the alternative, we believe that the VAT instrument can be used to promote better behaviour on this point, and we also think it is quite clear that deduction can be used for that. And it's no good that we're standing here with a half-weak tax deal that's got so much criticism, and then we don't want anything. We need to move forward, which is why it is exciting that people have proposed a mortgage. Of course, we need to extend our mortgage arrangements, of course we need to stop planned obsolescence, and of course people who sell things to us should be allowed to extend the guarantee to 3 or 4 years. All that was missing was that you do repairs that can last when you take the price for it. Whatever the case, I would also like to thank New Citizens for not voting red, even if they do not vote green, nor to be completely alien to the fact that the VAT weapon can be used as long as it is not set up. But thank you for a good debate for all of you, thank you for your good speeches, and thank you for sharing ideas on how to move forward in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415194207	There are no brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to speak out. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415194224	The debate is open. Here you go, the treasure minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415194242	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. As I have said, new citizens have tabled motions for resolutions No. B 197 on the possibility of a loss deduction in previous years' profits. The proposed resolution will allow companies to deduct losses from 2020, 2021 and 2022 in profits from the years 2018 and 2019. According to current rules, these deficits can only be offset against future profits, and therefore they cannot be reversed and offset against previous years' profits. The proposal is justified by the fact that many companies in the years up to the covid-19 crisis have had good years with large corporate tax payments, but indeed, in 2020 and very well in 2021, losses are expected. The authors of the proposal shall state the reasons on which they are based. With the proposed access to set-off in previous years' tax payments, deficits should be eliminated so that companies can quickly recover fully from the crisis, the reason is the justification. There should be no doubt that the recovery of the economy and Danish jobs after the covid-19 has the highest priority for the government. We have just discussed here in the Danish Parliament another very large proposal for increased liquidity for companies of as much as 73 billion. kr. and is thus now up to having ensured additional liquidity for Danish companies and Danish employees in the order of approx. 560 billion kr. So here in the Folketing, together in a broad majority, we have implemented historically large aid packages for business. As I have said, billions of kroner have been set aside for, for example, wage compensation and compensation for fixed costs and lost revenue, and those measures, in addition to the measures I mentioned earlier, help to strengthen the liquidity of companies here and now. As I have said, we have also focused on keeping our hands on business investment and, at the same time, supporting the green transition with the green tax reform, which was under discussion under the previous proposal, from December 2020. Initiatives have been agreed which, overall, are estimated to reduce corporate taxes by approx. 6 billion kr. in the years 2021-2025. We have among other things. an investment window has been introduced, which means that companies will have an additional depreciation access of 16%. of the investments made up to the end of 2022, we have extended the temporary increase in corporate deductions for research and experimental expenses, so the deduction now amounts to 130%. Right up to 2020, and we have permanently increased the limit on when companies can immediately write off operating funds, as it says, from approx. 15,000 kroner. for 30,000 kroner. So we have already had, one can safely say, the big toolbox forward. Time will show whether there will be a need to extend some of the measures and whether further ideas need to be put on the table. However, the Government does not consider that New Citizens' proposals to offset losses in previous years' profits and tax payments are the right way to go. This is first and foremost because it will be associated with significant administrative challenges. It will not immediately be possible to support systemically with the tax authorities and therefore a manual record of the losses paid will be necessary. This increases the risk of errors and, of course, also the need for controls. The Danish Tax Office estimates that, where appropriate, the resource burden will amount to a total of between 125 million. kr. and 275 million. kr. in 2022 and 2023. The actual payment of the taxes paid, i.e. the tax value of the deficits, is estimated to result in less revenue of approx. 1.1 billion kr. in 2022 and c. 0.5 billion kr. in 2023 after, as we say, retreat and behavior. The proposers have not allocated funding to this small amount of revenue or to the management of administrative costs. Finally, I also think it is worth noting that the administrative challenges mean that the taxes paid will not be paid until 2022. This will therefore not help to solve the liquidity challenges facing companies at present. Nor will it, as for example. the investment window or the increased deduction for research and experimental expenses, increase incentives to invest and thus support what could be called future earnings and jobs. So the conclusion is that you don't have to cross the river to get water. If further action is needed, the government believes that there are both better and, of course, more targeted means to support both business and Danish jobs, and it is probably no surprise that the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415194755	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415194758	Thank you. And thank you for putting some numbers on. We've asked for some figures on it. Personally, I think it would be a good idea to have sent those figures over when you can now stand on the platform and say what they are. But let's just leave it alone. This is very justified by the fact that the system cannot handle it and that it is estimated that something needs to be done manually. I would like to have a written assessment of what makes it impossible to set up a system for that purpose. You can run lists of what people have paid in previous years, and then you can see what their deficits are, and then you can set it off. It should be a pretty simple exercise. So I'm having a little trouble watching the manual thing, because if you choose to run it all manually, it's gonna be awfully expensive. Then the Minister could not try to put some words on what he has been looking at, since the assessment is that you cannot do it at all. Is it a tax system that has to go bankrupt again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415194901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415194902	When you do something like this, you have to be able to support it, and I think that even if you had invested in a totally spitzen tax system, it wouldn't be easy just to push a button and then make sure this became a reality. So no matter how you turn it around, there will be administrative challenges. And what's central here is that if you're going to have the effect right now, it's that it costs up to these approx. 275 million kr., and it is so manual control management, which is the reason for it. And yet it would not be possible to pay them quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415194940	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415194941	Good. Could the Minister inform us and it is quite fine that it will be written • how many companies you think will be covered by this, since it is thought it is 275 million. kr., it costs to manage these things? In addition, I remember hearing a similar story about the frozen holiday money, when it was presented in the Chamber for the first time, it was also said that it could not be done administratively, and the ditto and the date. But it did succeed anyway; a solution was found, and now the money has come out for the benefit of the citizens, including with the goodwill of the government. So could you tell us how many companies the Minister estimates will be included in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195017	We can easily give a justification for the figures that I have listed here. It is quite fair, and we can easily deliver that to the Tax Committee and to the questioner, no problems. But, as I said, there is no reason to cross the river for water. In other words, there is a broad majority here in Parliament and New Citizens have also chosen to support some of the initiatives taken very, very large initiatives, which also help to keep their hands on the companies we are talking about here. And this has helped to ensure that by 2020, which we have just come out of, we have kept our hands under in the vicinity of 80 000 jobs. So much has happened and fortunately in a broad majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195057	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we get to work with the rapporteurs, and first it's Mr. Knox. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195118	Thank you for the floor, President. The authors of the New Citizens' motion for a resolution here, which we are now debating, want to allow Danish companies to draw losses created in 2020, 2021 and 2022 from business profits for 2018 and 2019. The aim of the proposal is to support the liquidity of Danish companies and to allow them to recover as soon as possible from any losses that may have been built up during the corona crisis and up to 2022. In the social democracy we are also concerned with getting companies safely through the crisis and out on the other side. Through broad agreements with the Danish Parliament's parties and agreements with the social partners, the Government has pursued an economic policy that has held hands under tens of thousands of jobs and helped companies through the corona crisis. However, we cannot support this proposal, and this is because, from the outset, it cannot be supported by a system, that it will involve a high level of resource constraints and a high risk of errors in management, and that funding is not allocated to the substantial amount of revenue involved in the proposal. At present, Danish companies do not have the possibility to offset past years' tax payments and thus obtain the tax value of losses that may otherwise be included in corporation tax paid in previous years. On the other hand, we have rules that ensure that companies with losses in a given year can offset the losses in taxable income for later years. You can always set off approx. 8,8 million kr. in 2021 level of losses from previous years in taxable income of the year. In addition, losses from previous years may reduce the taxable income of the year by up to 60%. If we were to introduce the model as proposed by the proposers, the Danish Tax Office estimates that this would involve administrative costs of about 125-275 million. kr. in 2022 and 2023, because the proposal cannot be directly supported by the system. This will lead to a need for a costful system approach, which will only be operational by 2022, and a manual record of losses paid, which will increase the risk of making mistakes. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195402	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195404	Could the rapporteur explain what positive effects it would have if this scheme were allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195415	Well, I have to confess, I can't see right now. The negative consequences are quite obvious, in other words, that this would involve administrative costs of some 125-275 million. kr. in 2022 and 2023, and on the one hand, that the proposal here cannot be supported systemically it is quite essential. On the other hand, I am very pleased that a large, broad majority in the Folketing, with targeted initiatives, has helped to ensure that our companies have been able to overcome the health crisis and that we have been able to preserve jobs. This is absolutely essential to the social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195503	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195504	Yes, and it is good that the Socialist rapporteur has been given the figures. I would like to ask: when did the rapporteur get these figures on what the cost was?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195513	But I have received them in connection with the preparation for my rapporteur's speech here today, and that is how it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195523	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195542	Thank you, and thank you for the floor. New citizens' proposals to be able to deduct the deficit in previous years seem incredibly appealing to us, in fact, that this is something we ourselves have proposed in the past during negotiations. So basically, we are extremely positive about this, because there is no doubt that many companies, who have actually done well before this corona crisis, have been hit hard now and could be helped by being able to deduct it in previous years' profits. So we really wanted to see that. As the proposal says, it is a proposal that has been put into use elsewhere in the world and has worked well. We have been aware that Danish Occupation has proposed this, which is why we are very positive. So we did not expect this to have a huge economic impact, because it is a cash changeover. It's not that you don't pay the money. That is why it is quite new to us that it should cost between 125 and 275 million. kr., and that's one of the things we're gonna have to do, because as a financially responsible party, of course, we can't print bills we can't pay. Otherwise, we are, in fact, very positive and completely in agreement with the intentions, but we have to have this carried out in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195651	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195652	We have great respect for this, and when we tabled the proposal, we also expected some calculations to be made and then we should talk from them, and then we should see what made sense. This is a bid that we have played in with in an area where there is something we can do about something that the business community is shouting for. I'm looking forward to the fact that in the committee I'm not even in the chair asking some questions to dive into this. Because I think that the administrative costs sound great, and they are explained by the fact that it is just the system that is so and that it is therefore necessary to drive them manually. Yeah, well, obviously it's gonna be expensive. I would also like to see some more in-depth calculations of what it means in the future if you run this further. There was at least a sharp fall in negative revenue, but could it be that it actually becomes neutral when we look at 3-5 years into the future? Well, that's what might be interesting. Nor has there been any mention whatsoever of what this has to do with employment now or with employment. There's only been talk of what the proceeds are. So I am also looking forward to diving into those numbers, and I understand perfectly well that we have to have some figures on this, and that has always been our intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195752	I would just like to make a commitment, and I would also like to help put questions to the proposal if New Citizens need it, because we also have an intention to bring it closer to us. We think it is good intentions that lie in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195805	There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415195828	Thank you. I do not know whether to start by saying that the proposal is very sympathetic. One remembers that when one was a teenager, one was also told that one was very nice, but just not on it It was also such a good, polite way to be rejected, and it is actually good enough that one can reject in a polite way; it is just another way we say it, in the Folketing. I won't start because that's actually not where I am right now, but I think I've ruined it for myself now, I think. In fact, I think that the background to this proposal is good, because it is quite obvious that many companies are having a difficult time now. After all, they have had deficits by 2020, and many will probably have it here in 2021 because of this covid-19 crisis. This is quite serious, so I think it is good that there is a proposal on how to help them more quickly. In other words, there are still a lot of aid packages to which reference has also been made, but they must work in the same way as during the crisis. But how do we get on the other side of the crisis and get companies into gear more quickly? This could be an offer, but there's generally a need to make some kind of reboot package, I think. This could be part of it, you'll probably have to be wider to get people up in gear quickly and create some jobs, get money in the box too, so they can pay the tax debt that might be left now because they've taken loans and other things. Here it is so specific that the deficit should be deducted in 2020 and 2021 and 2022, i.e. last year, this year and next year, from the surplus potentially held in 2018 and 2019. The motion for a resolution has been described in a few words, so perhaps it could have been clarified a little more, because I actually have a number of questions which I cannot at least get an answer to here. Perhaps we can get so few when the rapporteur is in the chair or in the committee's work. However, these are actually quite real questions to which I certainly need answers. The system, as it is today, is also described. I think it was the Minister who said that you can make a deficit, just as you push a ball in front of you until you get a profit at some point. It may be a research company which has high costs at the beginning but which will later hopefully succeed in selling something, or if it is just a big investment. If you write it off, you push a deficit like that before you, until you get a profit and then you can set it off. It is a good arrangement in a normal situation, and that is the one I would like to return to if possible when we get to the other side. But how to get from the old system to the new system, I find it hard to see, for it is not described. I guess you don't imagine that both systems would run simultaneously. I guess I'd be a little illogical. And if you imagined that you had had a deficit in all the years from 2010 until 2018, and that you have a surplus in those two years, then there has to be a set-off once. Then you come to the years 2020 and 2021... should you be able to set off again? That may not be so appropriate either. I also believe that the authors of the motion for a resolution are in agreement, but I just need this in practical terms, that is to say how it can actually be done. Because it looks good on paper, and I therefore agree that it could be a good move. It is not to stand and reject the proposal, but I simply lack some practical clarifications on how to • also on the other hand when it runs after 2022 • gets back to the old scheme. So it is actually quite low-practical, namely that it is difficult to say yes to a proposal that we do not quite see how it can be done. That may also be why the Minister comes to the conclusion that it can be quite expensive to administer, because it may be difficult to switch between these two systems. Then, of course, there is the challenge of funding. I agree that New Citizens have asked questions about it in order to clarify it, and I think it is actually a little provocative or bad style. It is probably a better word that you have not been able to know what the proposal costs, so you could say it to the Folketing in your speech. But we have not done our best to send it to the committee. One could send it to one's own Socialist colleague, but everyone else should not have it for use in the debate, although it is an essential detail that we could all have used in this debate. So I actually think it's pretty bad style that you haven't bothered to send that answer over when you had the number. At least the effort could have been made so that the rest of us could have taken it into account. However, it will be a bit like that, because I think that the basic idea is a good one, which I have also noticed that Danish Occupations have proposed. I also believe that Danish Industry has backed it up, so it is not something that has come from nowhere or out of thin air, or that no one has asked for it. But I just need that practical part about how we can do this. How is it possible to do so without destroying the old system, that is, the system that exists today? I would like to go back to that, because it motivates us to make sense of putting a lot of ships in the lake, that is to say, researching, investing and doing other things, so you have some deficit that you can then set off later when you get profits. It's actually a really good way to do it in a normal situation. So I don't want to go over to a situation where we get away from that scheme. So it is a question of what should I say, a positive reception of the proposal, but I have some things I would like to clarify during the committee work. Then we shall have to see what we may vote if we have been made clear when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200312	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200315	Well, I think that is quite fair, and we have some clarification issues ourselves in New Citizens. This is a proposal made on the basis of a political desire to contribute to how we can, as you say, play in with some things that can restart it like the one with the frozen holiday money. I didn't quite have it in place either; I had thought of something that I thought could be state neutral and things like that. I think it is fair, as a party, to be involved with a sketch of what you think could work, and then the government, which has the network to do so, must be able to say what can be done and what cannot be done. But the idea and the idea is to say that there is a problem here and it is not a fix it all proposal. This applies to some individuals, hotels and restaurants, some who have been really hard hit; it could help exactly the industries that are really hit on liquidity. Now we have come up with an urgent proposal today which also helps some of it, but when I put forward this proposal, there was not the urgent proposal from the government that we have also discussed today. So it's like talking about something we're involved with about what we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200420	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200421	I fully acknowledge that. I actually mentioned at the beginning of my speech that this could well be one of the things that is needed in order to get companies back on their feet more quickly. In general, I think there is a need for such a rebooting debate if you can use that word, that is, where we look at initiatives that can help those sectors that have been most at risk. Fortunately, there have also been a lot of industries that have done well, but there are also some that have been down and still gone, because they have been largely closed for 1 year. And that's where I think it's obvious that we're gonna take a round about it. I do not, of course, deny that this could be part of it either, but I simply need some clarification as to what can be done and whether it can be done without destroying the arrangements that are running ahead. But let us look at it in the committee work on committee questions and play ball up the ministry; I fully agree that this is needed. It is just to say that I have not been clarified in my position until we have clarified these points.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200509	I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200527	Thank you. It is one thing to want to increase support for companies. It can be discussed whether it is a good idea. But the proposal we are dealing with here does not seem to us to make much sense. Why should the criterion be past profits, and why should it be 2018 and 2019? The Danish Tax Office says that there have been high administrative costs, and that is of course problematic. We also believe that this opens up unfair discrimination against companies and will tend to favour companies that are established in relation to companies that are new. The proposal here has therefore, in my view, been far too randomly distributed aid with retroactive effect, and the funding is also unknown. Therefore, the SF cannot support the proposal. And by the way, I should say hello from the Enhedslisten and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200617	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200619	Thank you. I'm a little curious whether the SF is also opposed to the carry forward system that is currently in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200628	Against what? I didn't catch that; I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200631	I do not regard this as question No. Two, that's exactly what I'm talking about, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200637	Under the current tax legislation it is so that you can present the deficits that you generate and then subtract them from in coming years. Is the SF against that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200648	No, not that I know of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200651	Does that give rise to another brief remark? Yes, it does. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200654	Yes, it does, because this is an extension of it, in other words to create greater flexibility, to say that you can obtain liquidity to make investments that can benefit the future. And that is why there are countries like Germany, France, and I also mean England, perhaps also Estonia, which has introduced it here, because it offers more flexibility for companies in terms of being able to plan and make some investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200721	Yes, I can see that, but at the same time the support will also fall far too randomly and too unfairly, and we cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200729	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200754	Thank you. We are all very willing and eager to help the business community through the Corona crisis. Of course. We ourselves, in the Radical Left, have helped push to extend the research and development allowance by 130 per cent. over a number of years. It was a proposal that was within the dial, you might say, within the systems that were, as such, already set up, and therefore relatively easy to implement, although it cost some knots. In addition, in the green tax reform we have also created an investment window which consists of a lot of subsidies and deductions for business so that you can innovate out of the crisis and move on, and which is also a promise on the green agenda. In addition, we also have a main track of aid packages, both in the area of taxation and business. We would like to see some more action in the field of culture, since I am now standing here as a radical one. In fact, however, I think that the main line we have drawn in the area of taxation, which we also dealt with earlier today, is sound and sensible. As for what New Citizens are proposing here, although I fully acknowledge that we all really want to help the business community, it is just for me to see not systems in the SKAT that we are going to rock right now. Right now there are five huge IT projects running over in SKAT to an extent that I think is Danish-Danish-shistorical large. And the thing about having to get in and set up a system from running the way it does now to running the way that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen proposes that a bill of three-digit million dollars be billed, which is simply too heavy. So when you say that we should try to help the business community, we actually think a little: yes, but it has to be within the dial, so that we try to minimize these administrative costs and so that we find a road that is already on the main track. It could be really nice. So that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200950	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415200952	Thank you. I recognise that this number sounds very violent. I haven't been told until tonight. I haven't had any information that the system can't handle it. I also think it is a little a declaration of failure that we have such a rigid tax system that one cannot make a simple change in when one accounts for a deficit in a company. I also think it is a little a declaration of failure. So, come on, if you can't make a change as simple as that in some European countries without problems, then our tax system is really bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415201025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415201026	Yes, and if you corrected it, it would only come into force in 2022, so that we could actually do it. It would just cost those 200 million. kr. Or something like that, right? And then it would not be able to enter into force until 2022. And I wonder if the companies that we want to help would not like a helping hand this year or such quite quickly? So there's also something about that implementation chunk that's just gonna have to get rid of first. That is why it is such an equally difficult proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415201053	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415201108	I think it is a very sympathetic proposal from New Citizens. 2020 has been an historically tough year for a large number of companies, and we must expect that at least the first half of 2021 will also put some deep economic tracks in many of the country's businesses. Many of these companies have had some good years up to the crisis, and this has also been reflected in the fact that they have paid a lot of corporation tax to the state. In 2020 and 2021, therefore, it is unfortunately to be expected that many companies will suffer losses and the deficit can be offset in the coming years, but cannot be offset against previous years' tax payments. In several other countries, for example: Germany and France, as we have already mentioned, have a permanent opportunity to bring back deficits. And as the motion for a resolution and the Danish Enterprise proposal for a relief package 2 suggest, as a special crisis measure, that in the years 2020-2022 deficits can be offset in the years 2018-2019, so that accumulated deficits by 2020 can quickly get away and businesses can come back fully after the crisis. The proposal is estimated to result in a loss of revenue of a small amount, since the proposal is mainly a manifestation of a postponement of taxation. At least that is what we have been informed of until a short time ago. I have to agree with the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party that I also find it rather uncomfortable that we other rapporteurs are first told these figures in this Chamber, so we have not really had the opportunity to deal with them. But, of course, we would like to dive into these figures a little bit and become a little wiser, just as both the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party have already said that we should stay in committee. In the Conservative People's Party, of course, we are also happy to ask questions on behalf of the new citizens, if they should have some, in connection with the committee work. However, as a starting point, we are very positive about the proposal and are looking positively at being able to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415201317	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415201331	Thank you. The best cure is that we open up society so that companies can start earning some money again. This crisis is characterised by the fact that it has hit down very specifically in some individual occupational groups, some individual sectors. There have been a large number of industries that have run quite well without problems, and then there are some that are really, really hard hit, and there are some that have come down completely. Some of what the industries that have been completely kneeled demand is liquidity. This is how to get through until they can get up. This proposal is then also to say in all fairness made before the last urgent proposal by the government to postpone some tax payments, so it should also be seen in this context. And we are looking at what can be done about constructive things which, in our opinion and in the opinion of the economists with whom I have spoken, would be fair, what can be said, state revenue neutral in the long term to implement. Then we hear today that there will be a huge administrative cost to it because the tax system cannot deal with it. Of course, I take note of that. It's knowledge that you couldn't possibly have had. Yes, one could perhaps have looked at the glass of experience and seen that the current tax system is not known for being adaptable. But in my perhaps naive hope, I had a hope that this could be done in the present tax system. We must then try to dive into it and see if it cannot, and we must see if we can find a solution to it. After all, there are a large number of European countries that have implemented this without the major problems and for the benefit of the business community in those countries that are very happy about it. Now this is a temporary solution to deal with a liquidity problem in the context of the Corona crisis, but it is something we would like to look into to see if it could be a permanent solution, because it is precisely a liquidity shift and not outright, you might say, extra funds for companies, although we also think they could get it. When we first made the proposal for the frozen holiday money, there were also many explanations and excuses for why it would never be possible to do so at all, and what happened then? Six months later, there was a solution. So it's also with the positive glasses on that I'm bringing it here. We are not going to stop with what we are going to push; we are going to look at the answers and see if there is anything we can do. We want to try to see if we can help the Danish business community, and we think this is a constructive input into how to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415201612	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415201625	The debate is open. The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415201641	Thank you for that, President. With the motion for a resolution, the Left proposes to change the conditions for obtaining approval as a general welfare association, so that small patient associations representing rare diseases can be approved in accordance with the rules of Section 8 A of the law on equations. If we look briefly at the rules in force, I would like to summarise them. The rules today allow individuals up to a certain amount limit to be deducted from the gifts they give to the association. The maximum amount of the total deduction for gifts to non-profit-making associations etc. is in 2021 at 17,000 DKK. per person. The right of deduction is conditional on the association's funds being used for general or otherwise non-profit-making purposes, as it says, in favour of a wider range of persons. The association must also be approved by the Danish Tax Office and report received gifts to the Danish Tax Authority. In order to be approved as a general welfare association, certain conditions must, of course, be met. These are set out in an Order from the Danish Tax Office, and they imply that the association must have more than 100 Gift Gift Gift Gifts and over 300 Members who pay the quota, and an annual gross income or wealth of more than DKK 150,000. Small patient associations for rare diseases find it difficult to meet the conditions for approval. According to the associations, this is due, among other things, to the fact that the few cases of the individual diseases mean that there are often only the very nearest members of the association. The government believes that it is sensible to consider whether a special rule can be made for small patient associations for rare diseases. The patients' associations perform a role of some general importance, since the diseases are rare and there is therefore less knowledge of the diseases. This means, among other things, that the suspicion of a rare disease is likely to arise late in the course of a disease. In the past, as the rapporteurs also know, I have indicated to the Danish Parliament that I have asked my officials to look at possible changes to the conditions, possibly in the form of a derogation rule, and of course I am still standing by that. I have asked the Treasury to continue the dialogue with the patient associations in order to find a workable solution that can be presented to all parties in the Folketing as soon as possible. I have also worked to ensure that such a solution can form the basis for a change of law in the next session. It is essential for the government that a derogation rule should, of course, also work as intended. The associations concerned have indicated that it is not enough to look only at the requirement for the number of members. Other conditions can also be a challenge for the associations. Therefore, we in the Ministry of Taxation, in dialogue with the associations, will continue to work on the conditions that are relevant to dispensing from. In addition, there is also a task of finding an appropriate and manageable definition of the associations to be accommodated by such a change. So the conclusion is that the government is positive about making it easier for small patient associations to be approved. However, this must be done in a proper, but also in a good and well worked manner, and we are already working on this in the Ministry of Taxation, as I have said. At the same time, it is important to stress that a change of law is required if the associations are to be helped as desired, and it is not realistic that a change of law can be implemented in this assembly and therefore, on this basis, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202035	This did not give rise to brief comments, which is why we thank the Minister for Taxation. I'm sorry it came at the last minute, but the tax minister is so flexible that we can handle that too. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202055	This is my first motion for a resolution ever, so I am not quite used to having to remember to press on. I am very sorry about that. It is one resolution in 13 years; it has been very well done. I am very pleased that the Minister as such is taking the proposal down positively, but I am a little wondering why the Minister then rejects the resolution. I guess we'll have to find some way out of this. If the Minister thinks we should solve the problem, then surely it cannot just be because it is the Left that proposes that we oppose it. So will the Minister try to look at it so that perhaps we could jointly find a solution to this? In any case, we are prepared that we should also have it spread here so that it solves all three problems, as the Minister also points out here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202131	That is one of the things I said in my speech here, and I think it is important to stress that I said that on this issue it means, of course, that if there is another basis, and that is what we are working on, then I assume that we can come together on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202146	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202147	In case I do, for example. in writing. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202156	We'll have to look into that. Now we're starting a job. I have already signaled in the Folketing some time ago that we would like to look at it. Whoever wants credit for it, I'm kind of open to it. I think we can all take that. There are several parties that have shown interest in this. So let us find a solution to this and, as I said, I will invite you to a meeting once we have finished the dialogue initiated with the associations in order to find the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202219	Then we reached any questions that might be addressed to the Minister and thank you and start the rapporteur's round. It's first, sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202232	Thank you for the floor. With this motion for a resolution, the Left will allow small associations representing rare diseases to be approved by relevant authorities as a general benefit association under Section 8 A of the law on equations. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that the association life is one of the most important things in Denmark and that the patient associations play an important role in society, in the Danish health system and for the patient groups concerned. We recognise that small patient associations for rare diseases, due to the very limited prevalence of the disease, may have difficulty in meeting these requirements. I am also sure that it has made a great deal of impression on those of us who have experienced being present when there has been a presence before the committee and when representatives from the associations have been at Christiansborg and have told about and argued for their cause. That is why we also think it is sensible to look at whether special rules can be made for small patient associations for rare diseases. For this reason, the Minister of Taxation has also previously indicated to the Danish Parliament that the Minister of Taxation has asked the Ministry of Finance, in dialogue with the patient associations, to look at the possibilities for a derogation rule. It is important that this solution works as intended and the patient associations have indicated that it is not enough to look only at the requirement for the number of members. The task is therefore to find an appropriate solution and a definition which is both manageable and targeted for the associations that need to be accommodated by a change. Therefore, the Ministry continues to work to find a solution in cooperation with the patient associations, where exceptions can be made to the relevant conditions. So the Ministry of Taxation is already working on finding a well-worked and targeted solution, and that work will continue. However, it is not realistic that such a solution can be implemented in this Assembly. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the concrete proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202445	There is a brief comment on Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202447	I am very pleased that you think this is a good intention, and it has been expressed many times. This is a case, and this is not the first time we have brought it up. It is true that I have asked about this in the past and, as nothing has happened, I have tabled the motion for a resolution to move on to this. For sometimes there needs to be further political pressure, and I do not think it is fair that, in relation to rare diagnoses, we should wait so long for this issue to be resolved. Is the rapporteur now telling me that we will not support this resolution, that we are working on it and that we are supporting it, but that we will not support it? Why? Is it just because it is the Left who is tabling the resolution that they will not support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202524	No, it's not. I would like to repeat that I think it is a good thing that the proposal is being put forward here, because it is indeed a sympathetic proposal. But we also need to find a solution that works as intended, and that is why the Treasury and the Minister of Taxation have taken the initiative to find a solution that not only comes around looking at the demand for the number of members, but also finds both an appropriate solution and a delineation that is both manageable and targeted at the associations that need to be accommodated by a change. It is also very important that there is a dialogue with these associations so that we find the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202608	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202608-2	I still find it hard to understand. We would like to take account of the associations, but our motion for a resolution that we should try to take account of the associations so that they can be recognised as universally beneficial, as the Socialists also say they want them to stay, is not to be supported because it is too narrow, although I say that I would like to see it spread out. I mean, I just don't understand the logic of it. Can the rapporteur not explain to me what it is that does not want to support the proposal by the Left to recognise associations for rare diagnoses and associations of general interest?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202639	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202640	Well, I think, with all due respect for the rapporteur's commitment and also the positive aspect of the proposal here, that we must conclude that we must find a solution that is whole and comes around not only the number of members of these patient associations, but that we will have a well-worked solution in dialogue with the patient associations. Because it is not just about the number of members; it also has something to do with what budget and what wealth the associations should have etc. There are several things that need to be incorporated. So all due respect for the fact that the motion for a resolution has been tabled here, but now there is work to be done in the Ministry of Taxation so that we find the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202729	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202731	But it is also very good that you want something more than anything else. I would then like to know what the rapporteur specifically disagrees with in relation to what the motion for a resolution says here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202746	Well, I do not think that this can be misunderstood, because I have said it several times, namely that this resolution addresses a single element, but that there are several elements that, overall, will provide the best solution for these patient associations, and we need to find the best solution. And that is why the Minister of Taxation and the Ministry of Taxation, together with the patient associations, are in the process of finding the right solution. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202814	Yeah, but if you see this as the right thing, it's just adopting it, and then it's part of the solution you find out. It's not harder than that. It is not the case in all sorts of other areas that we cannot change anything in the area of taxation without changing the whole tax system God knows that we cannot do that. So there are a whole range of areas where we change small things without changing everything. So we could do that here too; we could vote it through here and then we could incorporate it into what is now to be adopted and into what the Treasury is now going to work with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202843	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202845	Neither in politics nor in life as such is worth going for something that is half-finished. So this resolution contains an element which is a step in the right direction. And let us find a complete solution that is under way in the Ministry of Taxation in dialogue with the patient associations, where we come all the way around it, because it is not just a single element that the patient associations want a solution about. And what's the goal is that these patient associations for patients with rare diseases are given the opportunity to be approved as a charity under Section 8A of the equation law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202923	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Troels Ravn. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Dansk Folkeparti, who is allowed to stay ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415202941	I shall not start by saying whether or not it is a sympathetic proposal and actually just go to the point. The background is, of course, that there are a great many associations of general interest which are partly financed by donations, where, as mentioned above, there are a number of rules that need to be complied with in order to be approved as a non-profit association, and that is Section 8A of the equation law, which this proposal is about. Some of the requirements include that there must be more than 300 quota-paying members, that you must have annual gifts, a minimum of 100, and the amount of the gift must be at least DKK 200, and there must be an annual gross income or balance of DKK 150,000. In fact, I think there is such an unofficial demand that it should benefit a broad circle. It is basically good enough that there are some things to be done, but the problem is, as the debate also shows, that there are some people who are outside this framework and who, objectively speaking, think it would be quite reasonable and reasonable for them to be able to come here, that is to say, other associations of general interest, which have a crazy good purpose. Typically, as others have also mentioned, people who have very rare diseases, where there may be only 100 in total who have the disease of associations which may have an organizational level of almost 100 per cent, that is, where all those affected by it are part of the association. But they do not come near a number of 300 members. So it makes perfect sense for you to have a look at whether you can make some derogations in relation to what is also what this resolution is about. Like the previous rapporteur, the Socialist rapporteur, I also think it is too narrow, because the only point we are looking at is the number of Members where I thought we could look at, for example. the number of donations, i.e. where it can also be difficult to get over that number. And even if you had a derogation, it would be difficult to get a gross income of DKK 150,000 if you are such a small association, where there may be only 50 cases throughout the country. Well, I also think we have to spread it out. So I am really glad that this is being brought up as a debate in this Chamber, because I think it is extremely important that we find a solution to this. I think we should spread it out, but try to take a slightly different approach to it than the government's and there I come back to the fact that it's very sympathetic, but... We do not even have that. The government agrees, but then says no. It may be that you want more, but we can solve that quite quietly by making an amendment to the resolution; in fact, you can do so, even though it is rare to do so. It could well be an amendment that we are all behind; after all, we all have ownership of it. But it gets a little petty when you say no to something you're one hundred percent in agreement with, because you want something more, even though we can just change it to the more. It could also be a joint report, but I really believe that we all have a genuine interest in resolving this. And I think it is a bit a mistake on the Left, because I think they agree that it should be spread out as a general exemption rule. So I do not really think it is conscious that it has been chosen to write that it should only be in relation to 300 Members. However, let us now be the cooperative people's government and make a joint amendment and then get it adopted and resolve it here, instead of making bad arguments when you say no to something you agree with. We agree that this has to be resolved and that is why we are voting in favour of this, and we will also see if we can provoke an amendment to make it even wider. But in any case, we must resolve it, which is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203258	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203303	Thank you very much for your support for the proposal. Generally speaking, the motion for a resolution itself states, without comment, that there must be a derogation. It is only in the comments that it says the number. Nor is it intended to deal only with the number. It's supposed to be understood wider than that. And I would like to help make an amendment that makes it clear. I would also like to do so if the government could not make the bill this year. I would imagine they could not. We can also write that it is in 2021-22 that they have to put it forward so that hopefully we can all back it up. So I would just like to thank you very much for your support for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203337	The rapporteur? No, good. Then there are no more brief comments, and then we will welcome Carl Valentin from the SF as the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203352	Thank you. I'll be relatively brief. In the SF we look very positively at this proposal here and we fully share the intention to ensure a good framework for these associations, in other words associations in relation to diseases with limited distribution. We call for it to be examined in greater detail in the committee procedure, which has also been set up. I think that makes sense. And we are also pleased to hear that the government has something on its way. That's really good. We cannot support the proposal on its current basis, where there is no need for funding, but let us work on it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203424	There is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203428	Thank you for your support for this intention. This is something that I really think we can all stand together in this Parliament. And I actually believe that it is a mistake not to have included the rare diagnoses. I have also tried to get an amount, but I have not been able to get an amount when I have asked about it. That is why I have not been able to tell you about it. But it is so small a sum, we assess, because those subsidies are just not being given today. So it's not money that you're gonna be missing that way. So our assessment is that it can in any case be hit within what we have set aside for reserves in our financial legislation. And I'd think that if SF has a similar pool of reserves, it could be there too. So I guess it's a small amount. So I hope that the SF will take a positive view of this in committee and then we would very much like to be involved in making the amendments that need to be made so that we can all see ourselves in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203513	Yes, we will certainly take a positive view of this in committee. There is no doubt about that, and it is good if the assessment is also that the financing needs are not so great.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203521	There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Olldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203532	Thank you, President. Thank you very much for this proposal, which I know is very important for small associations that would like to be able to offer their gift-givers the right to deduct in line with the large non-profit associations. I myself have sat in such an association and was annoyed to be unable to meet the demands, so I am also personally very fond of the bill, and at least as happy as I am that it seems that the tax minister is embracing the proposal and is ready with a change of law that allows these small associations to be approved as non-profit. But I would also like to say from here that I think this discussion has taken such a rather funny turn, because we all agreed that we would like to do something for these associations, we just can't, like, stay on who should have the credit for it. So I've been sitting around thinking about who's supposed to get credit for this, and I actually think that the Left should have a star in the grade book for this. So I look forward very much to the fact that in the work of the committee we are going to cut this down so that we can get rid of the few knots that make it impossible for the Social Democrats to vote for it here today. I think that the Left has shown a great deal of flexibility in relation to those things that perhaps did not fit in with the way we would like to do things. So I really hope and look forward to us all doing this together. Because this isn't about technology, I don't think there should be christiansborg technology or chips in it. It's about realizing this strong desire of the small associations, and it looks like we're doing it now, together. So thank you once again to the Left for the initiative. It's nice to move something with you guys.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203710	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I would like to welcome the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund. He's not there! Then it must be Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, and I'm sorry I called you Rune.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203734	It's okay, thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Left for a very sympathetic proposal. In the Conservative People's Party, we would very much like to support the proposal. We think it is very good, and we think it is important that it is possible for small associations that also represent diseases of low incidence to be able to organise themselves and benefit from the same conditions as others and larger associations. So I will be very brief and just say that we would like to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next one is sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203815	Thank you. I am terribly sorry if I have forever ruined it for the use of the word sympathetic in here; now no one can use it without having this reference.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203829	There are no brief comments. The next is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, who is to come up here now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415203846	Thank you very much for your consideration in this Chamber. I am really glad that everyone is in favour of this intention. This started when we had a visit from Fanconi Anaemia Denmark last summer. I'd never heard of the Fanconi Anaemia Association or the disease before. And it's also a very rare disease. For who joins an association when they do not know that the disease exists? And this is an incredibly relevant issue, because why should one be punished just because one's disease is rare? Well, I'd say, I actually thought I was a little upset; I actually didn't think it was fair. And I really think that we should try to make some legislation that is reasonable in here. I asked the Minister some questions, and the Minister said that he would be working on that. And then nothing really happened. I waited, and I waited, and I got impatient. And after I, I think, had given the Minister quite a lot of months, we had another association, the National Association of Multiple System Atrophy, on the Committee on Taxation, which came with the same concern. And then I thought: I just want this to happen. It can't be that we're not gonna solve this problem. And that is why I have tabled the motion for a resolution. And that, in fact, is the background. Because I do not think it is right that these rare diagnoses should not be recognised by the associations of general interest. Because, of course, they need the same treatment. They need some to support them, will help donate to research so that they can learn more about their diseases. That is why I tabled the motion for a resolution. The text of the proposal itself does not contain any limitation on how to understand it; it simply states that we should make an exception for low-prevalence diseases. And then the comments state that there can be dispensation from the condition of 300 quota-paying members. And I've become aware of the fact that after I put forward the proposal that this isn't the only challenge that patients with rare diagnoses have with these rules. There are four rules, and there are three of the rules that give them challenges. This is partly about the 300 members, partly about how many contributors there are and then about their gross income per year. And I think that we need to dispense with all three things and find a solution to it because the associations represent patients suffering from low prevalence diseases, which means a low incidence. And that is what I just hope we can find common ground for here in the Parliamentary Chamber. I believe we can solve this together, and I think it's beautiful that it can be done. It shows a popular government that works. And then I hope that the other parties will also support the amendments we can make and can see themselves in this. For me, it is not important whether the proposal will be put forward this year or next year, but it is important that it be done, and it is important that it should not just be pickled again. And that is why we need to get it adopted. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204204	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204207	I would just like to say thank you for presenting the proposal, and then I would like to say that those amendments are definitely some that we in the New Citizens will be able to see us in, and I also hope that others can see themselves in them, so perhaps we should just make them as amendments and vote them through together with this proposal, and then we can go out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204230	That's easy for us to find out. For me, it is just that I would like this to be adopted because we need to solve the problem and I think it is beautiful if we can do it together as many as possible together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204241	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204254	The debate is open and I will begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Taxation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204313	Thank you for that, President. The Left has tabled this motion for a resolution to increase the employment allowance by DKK 1.000. e.g. with a view to strengthening the economic incentive to be at work. The government's starting point is that the tax should not increase for ordinary Danes, and therefore the government is not in principle opposed to raising certain deductions, especially where ordinary citizens experience a gain. Right now, we are in a particularly serious situation which requires special action. The situation of the covid-19 has had major consequences for the Danish economy and, as has previously been the case today, it is a clear priority for the government to restore growth. We need to get out on the other side of the health crisis as quickly and as well as possible. That is why the government, which we have already dealt with earlier today with a new proposal for increased liquidity of 73 billion. kr., adopted extensive relief packages, moreover together with the Danish Parliament's parties, to hold hands under Danish employees and Danish companies, among others. by introducing, as we did earlier today, interest-free loan arrangements for the payment of A tax, labour market contributions and VAT by companies. As I said, some 560 billion has been secured. kr. in liquidity to companies during the crisis here. As part of the Finance Act, the government has also facilitated the tax on persons. There are, among other things: introduced the possibility for employers to give employees free of tax vouchers for experiences in order to support an industry that has been particularly hard hit by the corona crisis. After all, as the rapporteurs also know, and as we have discussed in the past, the housing employment scheme has also been substantially improved, but indeed temporarily. There are many other initiatives which can, of course, be considered in order to give economic support to those who need it most, and to get business going and to restore jobs that may have been lost during the crisis. The government is therefore not reluctant to discuss further initiatives to support growth and prosperity. It is important for action to be taken where there is the greatest need and where it also has the greatest social benefit, and the government's position is that it is, of course, best ensured as part of an overall priority where concrete funding has also been found. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204546	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204550	I am pleased that this is not a blank rejection, because this proposal is precisely something that will increase employment, including private employment, which can create growth and prosperity for Denmark. Now the government says that the government also wants to do something to start Denmark up again on top of this crisis. What does the government intend to do if this isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204612	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204613	For example, we have just made a green tax reform in which we have paid 6 billion. kr. in tax relief to Danish business, and who is a part of it, one can safely say, in modern Danish to push the green transition, so that is a very good example. We have increased the deduction for research and development costs to 130 per cent, and overall I believe that during the period we have increased that deduction, there is given in the region of 4 billion. kr. to the Danish business community. So a great deal is happening that helps to hold hands under Danish jobs, not only in the short term, but also in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204649	Thank you. I am aware that together we have, fortunately, also made a lot of initiatives to stimulate growth in Denmark. But now the Minister himself says that the Minister would like to look at measures to stimulate growth, so what does the government intend to do? It sounds as if the government is going to make further growth-enhancing efforts. Is there anything in this I can only come up with in the English word "pipeline" to do something that stimulates growth forward-looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204720	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204721	The government has one interest, and it is, in addition to holding hands under the Danish economy, to continue to create growth and prosperity and employment, and the initiatives that we have taken, which we have largely made with a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, have held hands under 80,000 jobs by 2020 and over 50,000 here in 2021 and will also have a long-term effect. In addition, there are the many other initiatives I mentioned. But it is clear that we are monitoring the situation on an ongoing basis. It should be borne in mind that the initiatives that have been taken, such as the green tax reform, will last several years in the future, and, as I said, 6 billion have been set aside. kr. we can force the green transformation of Danish business. And what's this about? It is about creating jobs and growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204808	Thank you, Minister. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415204823	Thank you for the floor. With this resolution, the Left proposes to increase the maximum employment allowance by DKK 1.000. According to the proposers, the proposal should ensure that more Danes become part of the working community and that it becomes more attractive to go to work. In the Social Democratic Party we are concerned with bringing Danish companies and employees to the best possible level through the health crisis. Therefore, the government, in cooperation with the Danish Parliament's parties, has undertaken a historic fiscal effort to hold hands under Danish companies and jobs and to support the economic recovery. By 2020 alone, historical fiscal efforts are holding hands under 79,000 Danish jobs, and this year the fiscal policy will hold hands under 54,000 jobs. Compared with the Danes' extraordinary efforts to keep the covid-19 infection down, it has helped Denmark to appear to be the country in the Nordic region which in 2020 experienced the mildest economic downturn in terms of GDP, employment and private consumption. At the same time, our investments in green and digital conversion, renovation and upgrading of infrastructure, research and development and education and further training will lay the track for increased productivity and growth in the future, so that Denmark will emerge more strongly from the crisis. There are many different initiatives which can be considered in the light of the covid-19 situation to support those who need it most and to get the unemployed back to work. It is important that we put in places where there is the greatest need and take an active position on funding. This is particularly true when we are talking about new, lasting priorities, such as this proposal, which leads to a lasting reduction in revenue. We in the Social Democratic Party are not opposed in advance to initiatives of this nature, but it must be done as part of a global priority where funding is managed, and it is not quite clear how the funding of this proposal is linked. Reference is made to the Finance Bill of the Left, where the main funding proposal is the reserves set aside in the draft budget. However, since then an agreement has been reached on the Finance Act, where the reserves referred to have been committed. In addition, we in the Social Democratic Party do not necessarily agree with the logic of the proposal that current unemployment is primarily due to the fact that it is not worthwhile for citizens to work. After all, the airport workers in Kastrup are not unemployed because it is not worthwhile for them to work, but because we are in a global pandemic which has led to a significant reduction in travel activity. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal. However, I welcome the fact that, like the government, the Left is concerned about reducing the unemployment that the Corona crisis has unfortunately caused. The Left Finance Bill, to which the proposers refer, would, according to the estimates of the Ministry of Finance, have increased employment less than the government's Finance Act. I hope that, with this common objective in mind, we will be able to have wide-ranging discussions in the near future when the government presents its proposals on how to achieve a larger, better and more skilled workforce. the green and digital transition requires. Social democracy cannot support this proposal, but thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205206	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205210	Thank you and thank you for not being a complete rejection. However, I would still like to ask what the rapporteur is saying. It sounds to the rapporteur as if the rapporteur does not consider it important to grant a higher allowance for employment. I understand that we currently have an unusual situation where the changed world makes that where there is normally a job, there is no job at the moment. But everything else equal when the world returns to normal, the luggage workers at Copenhagen Airport will again work as luggage workers at Copenhagen Airport. So that's not the problem. The challenge is to get people from public support and to become part of employment. Because by being a part of employment you become part of a community, and it has thus been quite a human value to become part of the working community. Does the rapporteur not recognise the importance of the fact that there is also an economic incentive to take up a job in those cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205317	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205319	Yeah, we can agree on that. However, as I said, for example, about the workers at the airport, they have not become unemployed because it is not worthwhile to work; they have become unemployed because there is a global pandemic and travel activities are dampened. However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we in the Social Democratic Party are not opposed in advance to initiatives in relation to this motion for a resolution. However, this must be done as part of an overall priority and funding must be managed. It is, for example, in the context of a political agreement on a growth package, in the context of the financial law agreements, or perhaps in the context of tax reform, that we put the seeds and traces of such initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205410	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205413	Now, the rapporteur says that we have no control over funding. We have funding in our Finance Act. I am well aware that the Socialists, the government, do not have the same funding because the government has voted in favour of another Finance Act, but that is not the one we have voted in favour of. So there is nothing wrong with our funding because we have not voted in favour of the things that the government has voted for. It is just that we agree that it is not, of course, because we have an unfunded proposal. After all, will the rapporteur recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205439	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205440	Yes, but in this proposal, the Left refers to some reserves in the Finance Act, which are, after all, a priority in the Finance Act that has been concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205456	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205458	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur when the rapporteur says that we have done well through the crisis, what are the economic ratios to which reference is made there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205507	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205508	For example, we can see when we compare ourselves with the Nordic countries, and perhaps even more clearly when we compare ourselves with countries in the rest of Europe, that Denmark has, fortunately, a smaller reduction in employment. We have a slight drop in GDP, and we have a slight drop in private consumption. And all the key figures indicate that Denmark is also one of the countries that will first really get all the wheels going on the other side of the health crisis, and that is, of course, among other things. Because here in the Folketing we have managed, with some broad political legislative proposals that have been adopted, among other things, to do so. also through our work in the Tax Committee to make some compensation packages that have strengthened our companies and have held hands under our jobs, and indeed among other things. Today, too, with a legislative proposal that strengthens the liquidity of companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205609	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205610	I would like to warn against concluding on how Denmark has managed financially in this. When we look at the fall in GDP, it is of course quite important how large the public sector is in those countries for how big the fall in their GDP is. And countries with a slightly smaller public sector usually have a major fall in GDP in these crises, because the crisis finds itself in the private sector first. We also saw this in the last crisis, namely the crisis 2008-2009, where the crisis did not actually take place until a little later in Denmark. It also turned out that Denmark had to spend longer and had more difficulty getting out of the crisis and that the other neighbouring countries actually had a higher growth in the years that came afterwards. So I think one should be very careful to conclude on that. In addition to that, there is something called demography and when the virus hit the country, which is also important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205658	Yes, but the thing is, rapporteur from New Citizens, that in Denmark, with both a very strong public sector and a very strong private sector, we have got through the global pandemic, that our decline in employment • fortunately, we have been doing a lot less than we see in other countries, and that private consumption has not fallen, as we see in other countries, precisely because we are pursuing a dynamic, active, progressive fiscal policy, where we invest in green conversion and invest in our businesses. We have also provided tax relief in our committee to our companies in connection with the green transition. That is all that, combined with the discipline of our citizens and our commitment, has led us gently through the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205749	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415205810	Here we are considering a proposal to increase the employment allowance by DKK 1.000. alone for 2021, so it is not a permanent swelling, but only for 1 year. You can start by wondering why it is only for one year. I fully agree with the intention, namely that it should pay better to work, and that what the proposal also says is good to be part of the working community. Well, it gives some value to people that they have something to stand up to and come out and meet some colleagues and things like that. But it is also good that working after 2021 is worthwhile, so I wonder why it is only one year that it has been defined. Perhaps the rapporteur of the Left can explain this when he comes to the floor. Because I actually think that the need is also there after 2021. Otherwise, I read a lot of the motion for a resolution in such a way that there is a lot going on with the rake after the government. Because it is true that the government has targeted a large number of tax increases • 10 billion. kr. In the case of higher taxes, it is indisputable that it pushes jobs out of the country. It is money that is then not put in Denmark, because then you put it in the treasury instead. You can see that, for example. border trade or whatever it may be. The proposal then says that there are two ways in Danish politics. There is the path of social democracy, or there is the path of the Left, and then all of us sit and think: what about our path? Couldn't it be a little more nuanced, so that there could be a little more roads than just your two? If there was a third way, then what? Then you couldn't go at it, could you? I think there could be a third way, and it could be that instead of talking about whether the tax should be up or down, we talked about whether it should not just be simpler at first. I have advocated many times in here that we should end all the crazy charges in here before we talked about whether the charges should be up or down. And then we could talk about what would then be up or down. I'd like to get them down, but let's clean it up so people can understand. I really think that is something that could be a focus for us in the Committee on Taxation. Now people have just got their annual statement, and I really think that the vast majority of people think that it is like playing in the lottery, because you have no idea if you get money back or whether you have to get rid of money. And if people finally get money back, they don't know why. That's how people say, "Oh, yeah, I get $5,000." back, and I'm glad about that, but why not $3,000? or 7,000 kroner.? You don't know. Well, you can't figure it out. We cannot really be familiar with that. Actually, I think it's a bigger problem than not giving 1,000 kroner. in the employment allowance for one year. Shouldn't we instead try to clean up what's there, whether it's taxes or it's income tax or corporate tax? It's gotten so complicated that no one can figure it out. In fact, I also believe that there are tax rapporteurs who feel that they have won the lottery when they have received money back in taxes. 'Cause no one can figure out why. How do you get to these amounts? It's kind of sad to have to stand here and say it from the speaking chair of the Folketing. Well, we shouldn't focus on it instead of talking about an employment allowance of DKK 1,000. For a year? I think that is the third way we could choose to go. Well, there are other ways. I'm guessing there are others who think something quite fourth. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen might think that there should be even greater tax relief and that the deduction should be 10,000 DKK. Or Radicals might think that there were some environmental taxes that had to be dealt with. So there's a lot of roads. But my third suggestion is that we should make it simpler. It could be a good starting point, and then we could talk about all the other things afterwards. Well, if we are to look at the proposal in isolation, that is quite reasonable in itself. Maybe it's a little weird that it's only one year. I think one might add that one could also come together to make a major tax reform, which could both contain it here and make it simpler and also meant that it would pay better to work. In fact, I think that is an agenda we should be able to gather together on. If nothing else, we should be able to unite on the blue side on a simplification agenda, while at the same time doing so in such a way that it would pay better to work. So we are positive about the resolution, although there may of course be some things in what we wonder about. But it's better than nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210143	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210147	I fully agree that we need to get rid of the crazy taxes. But I can't help wondering. Now, of course, we are more than two years into a parliamentary term, but before that we had a parliamentary term with a VLAK government where DF was a support party. Why didn't these crazy charges be removed in the 3-4 years when you had the opportunity? I have to assume that DF had a pretty good entrance to talking to them. Who was that? Why wouldn't governments erase these crazy charges?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210218	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210221	But it is sometimes the case in politics that you do not get it all through at once. We actually made some deals • I think it was twice • where we removed some hacked charges, for example. a tax on tea that is not unhealthy, and it was not with a great deal of revenue. There are taxes on all kinds of tobacco stuff, and I believe, for example. also that the levy on coffee substitutes was one of the charges that had been imposed. I mean, nobody drinks it anymore. But the fact that we did not achieve our goal is something else, and that is why we are fighting on that agenda politically. But we actually did something for it. I can, for example. also mention that in the context of income tax, something called a job allowance is something other than an employment allowance, and I actually fought against the fact that we should have a job allowance because we could have the same effect by screwing up the employment allowance, but now Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who was Prime Minister at the time, said that we should have a job allowance. I was also trying to ask: is there any reason for it to be unnecessarily complicated, and could we not screw the buttons we have and have virtually the same effect? I couldn't get through with that, but it did so that it would pay better to work. So we agreed to the compromise, because that is the way politics is. But we actually tried to keep the complexity out when we did that tax reform last time, but unfortunately we did not succeed. Well, maybe I'm the one who's too bad, but I've actually been struggling to try to get some of these things away, even in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210329	Yes, there is all sorts of creditworthy about it, and I know you can't get everything through. But I am just thinking because I remember the rapporteur saying in the past that we are making such a long list of all these crazy taxes that there must then be some who have sat and said: yes, yes, yes, well, now we are just removing 30%. I'm sorry, but we're gonna charge 70%. of the hacked charges stay. I'm just having a hard time reasoning to a rationale behind that someone can sit there and say, "No, we're keeping some of these hacked charges." I'm just trying to learn more about what's been going on in those rooms, because I wasn't in the Folketing, so I have no idea. I'm just curious.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210401	One of the things that I can mention, and which actually ended up in something that was a little wasted, was that you had what was called a tax on the air in softice, where I do not think they thought it was the air tax in softice that was the problem, even though it is actually such a swelling charge. Well, you pay a tax on the bloated mass, and then you also pay a tax on the air that is needed to blow it up, and that has actually been found out in the Treasury was a problem, because the ice machines that blow it up breathe a little different amounts of ice into it, and then they had to check the machines, and that was at least the case, they thought. There was then a standard swelling rate that was laid down over it, and it solved the problem that they had to go out to control them, but it is still just faded. So the challenge was actually not so much the political one, but it was more official work where I don't think they thought it was so wrong anyway. So it is just to say that it is not necessarily the politicians alone who have to fight with each other, but that it may in fact also be an official work that thinks it is the best way to do it, and I still think it is wrong to have to make it clear and that the air tax in softice should therefore be removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210458	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210516	Thank you. In the SF, we are not in favour of broad tax reductions, as is proposed here. In the past, we have proposed and increased the deduction for single parents, and this was part of a larger package of proposals aimed at abolishing child poverty. But it's like that. The proposal costs 0.3 billion. kr. and, according to the Left, should be financed by further tightening in the field of foreigners, residence requirements for daily allowances, the abolition of temporary higher benefits for unemployed immigrants and a reduction in the integration allowance for dependents. The SF cannot support the proposal, and I should also welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210555	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Olldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210616	Thank you, President, and thank you for an extremely interesting proposal, the Left. Here you hit the dial clearly, and I will start by taking ownership and changing the party name at the beginning and quoting from the first paragraph of your proposal. For Radical Left people want as many Danes as possible to become part of the working community for the sake of the individual and for the sake of society. The working community is the whole foundation for our being able to afford our common welfare, and if we are to invest in green solutions, have a world-class health care system and make Denmark richer, we must ensure that there are more hands and heads on the Danish labour market. I put my head on the block and say that there is not a single party in here that does not agree with this. That is why I also get a little tired of the next many paragraphs, which then whip away the policies of the government and the support parties. Here I wonder whether the Left sincerely believes that an increase in the employment allowance is important or whether the proposal is about to mark itself as an opposition. However, instead of referring to the description of the apparent Armageddon that we have caused together with the government and the other supporting parties, I would just like to stress that it has never been Radical Left policy to lower or increase a tax simply for the sole purpose of lowering or increasing the tax. A treasure is a tool for creating the society that the Left also so finely describes in the introduction. That is why I am a little discouraged by the confrontational rhetoric which is going to stand in the way of us really wanting the same thing. For yes, it is also radical policy that it should pay better to work. All wage earners in all income groups should be able to keep a greater share of their own money. Last time the employment allowance was increased was under the SRSF government, so you have hit a field that we know and you know that there is real policy in it. So could it not be exciting if we could put this idea into common tax reform ideas? The hope then came up in me, of course, but then hope goes out in the end, because at the end of the proposal you cannot help but meddle foreign policy into funding, because then you know that the Radical Left cannot vote in favour of the proposal. It is clever if you just want to mark yourself, but stupid if you really want to improve for employees, and that is why we cannot, of course, put radical votes to the proposal as it stands, as it is called, this evening. But I hope that both the Left and the Social Democrats have heard me bid for dance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210854	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck of the Conservative People's Party, who is being asked to stay ready. And I'm gonna have to ask that the conversation in the back of the room is a little muted. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415210907	Thank you for that, President. Denmark is the OECD country with the highest tax burden, and it is not only a problem for individual citizens and families who have less freedom to manage their own lives, but it is also a problem for our societies. A high tax burden means that fewer people make extra efforts, the international competitiveness of companies is weakened, which puts pressure on wages and the ability to maintain good Danish jobs, and overall a high tax burden puts our wealth under pressure and therefore also our welfare. Because you cannot have a high level of private and public welfare without a prosperous society, and the two things are mutually dependent. Hopefully it will come as no surprise to anyone that we in the Conservative People's Party would like to see a lower tax burden in Denmark and that we would like to make it more attractive for the individual to give it an extra scale on the labour market. With this resolution, the Left will increase the maximum employment allowance by DKK 1.000. Of course, we in the Conservative People's Party would like to take part in this. It must be more attractive to go to work and make an effort, and raising the employment allowance provides tax relief to all Danes in work regardless of income. In fact, we agree with the Left that the employment allowance must be increased, that we ourselves have tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject, which will be dealt with in the Chamber in three weeks' time. However, we are going one step further. We want to do this not only in 2021, but also in the years following, and we want to increase the employment allowance by DKK 1,400. So we can support the proposal here, but I also hope that the Left will then help to go a little further and support our proposal when it is to be dealt with shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211115	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizen, who is allowed to stay ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211131	Thank you. The world's highest tax burden, and let's try to say it again: the world's highest tax burden, and there is God help me some who will seriously try to describe us who are trying to do something about this as the extremes. But dear friends, what we have now is the extreme, and there I see it as one of the most important tasks of New Citizens to get this house back to normal. The pendulum has swung out completely and is pounding through the glass, and it harms the Danes, it damages the Danish economy, and it damages our children's future, and from here we have to limit ourselves. It is not fair that you run the credit card completely down and then just spend it on party and fun and trouble, as is the case right now, and we will have to move Denmark another way. And I hope that parties such as the Radical Left can see that what we have with the world's highest tax burden is too extreme a radical Left, which has previously been an economically based, sensible, pragmatic party that can see that the world's highest tax burden comes with a price, and that price is the loss of wealth, the loss of growth, and therefore also results in the loss of welfare down the road. And right now, we're asking our children to pay the excess consumption that we have right now. Can't we be part of this? Here is something where we lower the tax • we think it is sensible and now let us do it permanently, and let us do it in a large number of areas, while simplifying our tax system so that the citizens out there can actually figure out how to understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211336	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211354	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate in this Chamber. I'm really glad I didn't get a blank rejection. This is an act of our financial law. After all, we have had a social democratic government for nearly two years with two financial laws, and in total there have been increases in taxes and taxes over 30 times over this government by over 12 billion. kr. That is quite significant, it is quite a lot of money, and that is why we are tabling this resolution. That is to try to go another way, because we also need to find a way to create the basis for growth in the future. It is no use just cutting more money away from citizens and businesses. When are we going to look at how to create growth? And the way you do it is by making it more attractive to work, and that's why we're making this proposal. We both think it is good for the national economy that more people are going to work, and we also think there is a human factor in it, because every human being is being a part of the working community that gives a value. Getting up, meeting at work and knowing that you are making an effort and being recognised for what you are doing are worthwhile. It gives a value, which is why it has always been incredibly important for us to focus on how we can make it more attractive to work. We in the Left think it is important that we do something to get people into employment. We have seen that we have reduced employment in the private labour market in recent years, and that is one of the things we need to make sure we change. If we are to maintain a welfare society, we need to get it supported, also by people being part of the labour market, and this resolution will increase the employment allowance by DKK 1,000. in 2021. It is only a one-year proposal, because it is the implementation of our financial law, and we do not have funding for the future, so as a financially responsible party we only put forward proposals for which we can find funding in our financial law proposal. But I certainly think it would be interesting to talk to the other parties, among others. Radicals who say they want to discuss it further, and I think that could be very interesting with the government too. We would really like to see if this is something we can find out in another way. For us in the Left, it is just important that we take Denmark in the right direction, because that is the way we can ensure a more prosperous society where we can also afford the welfare we want in the future. So I would like to thank the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and New Citizens who will support the proposal and I look forward to the further discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211641	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211644	Thank you. Again, I would like to thank you for the proposal, which is a good one, but something I wonder about is that the text of the resolution is after the government because they have raised the tax here and they say it is bad because it costs jobs and sends turnover out of the country. Then I remembered that the Left has supported an increase in the cigarette tax, which costs 1 billion. kr. more in cross-border trade, that is, money that goes out of the country and is not translated into Danish shops, which means job losses. I really want to know if you have regretted it, because you are very mad at the government for raising taxes, but even in relation to cross-border trade you have helped pump 1 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211728	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211730	I would say that as far as the cigarette tax is concerned, this is because it means that fewer young people are going to smoke. We know that it is not normal for them to go south to buy cigarettes, and it is important for them to pay the price for cigarettes if they start smoking. We have a record number of young people starting to smoke, and that is why we have supported this increase in the cigarette tax and also advocated it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211756	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211758	I agree, of course, that it is not good that people start smoking. I am also trying to stop myself. And in fact, the curve goes down, but what is only remarkable is that the curve started to fall before the tax rise came, so it might well be that there might be other factors. be cultural factors or how accessible it is in stores etc. There is also the point of saying that you believe that smoking is unhealthy, but I think the government also thinks it is important that you do something about pollution and want less plastic, so you put taxes on plastic bags. That's fair enough, but why is it so straight that the Left's argument means it's okay. to put the tax up and push the jobs out, but if it is everyone else, then it doesn't work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211834	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211836	It can be said that in this case we do not believe that this is the only reason why people start smoking, and that is why it has not been the only measure we have taken, but it has been one of the measures that the experts have said would work in relation to whether young people will start smoking. It is a very big problem for young people to start smoking, and that is why we have supported the increase in the cigarette tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211856	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211915	The debate is open. And I give the floor to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415211933	Thank you for that, President. The Left has tabled a motion for a resolution to roll back the adjustment of the tax on generational change in family-owned businesses. This will mean that businesses will be able to return to a household and gift tax significantly below the normal level, and this will mean that we can invest approx. 1 billion kr. less a year in our common welfare, and that is why the government cannot support the proposal. As you know, the government, together with a broad political majority in the Folketing, wants to put welfare first. We do this by strengthening young people's education, strengthening help for mentally vulnerable and sick people, and not least by strengthening confidence and restoring confidence in our tax administration. This was our priority with the 2020 Finance Act when we decided to increase the housing and gift tax in the event of the transfer of an economic activity, and we are, of course, fully committed to it. However, I would also like to make it clear that the government fully agrees that we must create good and secure conditions for business in the near future, so that they have the best conditions for restoring growth as quickly as possible and we can come out as safely as possible on the other side of the crisis we are in. We want to strengthen the framework for an ambitious green transformation of Denmark, and this must, of course, offer Danish business opportunities for even more growth and even more prosperity • and ensure, of course, that Denmark also takes a stronger international responsibility for the joint fight against the climate change that we face in these decades. That was the mandate given by the electorate in the 2019 parliamentary elections to the government and the government's supporting parties. We said very clearly before the elections that we were going to roll back the biased tax cuts of the previous government, which were thus given to particularly wealthy groups in our society. We did so as soon as we got the power of government, and of course we do not want to change that. As I also said in connection with the roll-back in 2019, this roll-back of tax relief to some of the wealthiest families in the country means, for example, that 1,000 more nurses can be recruited, that the government can introduce minimum standards, and that we can strengthen our education and, for example, also strengthen efforts towards people living with mental disorders. In addition, as I said, we are lifting education at a time when competition is seriously intensifying and where there is a struggle for both smart hands and smart heads; there is a need for not fewer but more investment in training. It is also expressed in the change of government and the change of direction that has also taken place in education policy following the parliamentary elections. This is a crucial shift, and it helps to ensure that we can create more growth and more jobs in Denmark, also in the future. In short, we have set a new and fairer and responsible direction for Denmark, and that is, of course, what we stand firm on. The re-introducing in 2019 a uniform residence and gift tax of 15%. As a result, the tax is again the same for everyone, just as before the tax reduction, which happened in 2017. This ensures that the decision as to whether an undertaking should be transferred to, for example: external buyers or must be generationally changed within the family, to a lesser extent affected by the tax itself. And it is economically healthy when the desire is an appropriate investment and business culture that supports growth and employment in society as a whole. At the same time, the abolition of the favourable tax on the transfer of undertakings draws towards a more equal distribution of income. So there is no reason to assume, moreover, that a billion-size rebate for company heirs will result in growth and increased employment. The money can be used better, and the government will do so, by ensuring 1) that we invest in welfare, 2) that we invest in a better environment for green conversion and, above all, our training programmes, so that Danish companies and Danish employees are even better equipped in the fight for the jobs and growth ahead. So it may not come as a surprise to many people in this Chamber that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212407	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212410	Sorry to prolong the debate so late, but it is because it is going to be such a misunderstanding that the debate is going to run. Does the Minister of Taxation recognise that there are two things that determine what you pay in the generational tax of a company? One thing, then, is the tax rate at which you are taxed, and another is what you are taxed by, which is the assessment of the company. Can the Minister confirm that the former Social Democratic Minister Benny Engelbrecht abolished what was called the property tax rate, so that a much higher assessment was made, so that one of the two legs and the money chose the bourgeois majority to subsequently use to lower the rate? So you could have just reinstated what was called the property tax rate. It is not some huge billions of tax relief for the very richest, but one had the problem that one could choose to do something about the assessment or tax rate. So we just picked the movement. Now the Social Democrats have turned the movement up again, so you just have the high rating, but not a lower rate. Does the Minister recognise that it is not some huge billions of tax relief that was being done, but it was actually to offset the swelling of the assessment that the Socialists were left behind under a previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212513	Thank you to the questioner. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212515	If you have to follow the logic of the questioner, it is something that also applied when the questioner himself was responsible for holding hands under the previous government, all the time that what we are doing is that we bring it back to 2017 level. That is why this is, and I am happy to admit it, a matter of priority. We disagree with that priority, which is why we have chosen to do what we have done, and we are pleased that there is a broad majority behind it, which means that we have priorities and means of investing differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212541	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212542	The fine thing in the answer is that you only think back to 2017, where we really put the movement down. After all, we are forgetting to rewind to the time when the Socialists set up the assessment significantly, which gave something close to 1 billion. kr. extra in the box. But back in, I think it was 2014, when Benny Engelbrecht was the tax minister, the assessment was greatly increased, and this made it possible to raise taxation for generational shifts. So if the Minister thinks a little further back, would the Minister not acknowledge that this is not about billions of tax cuts for those who have businesses, but about the fact that you are actually trying to get the money back to the generational tax that the Socialists pulled extra into the box back in 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212621	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212622	Regardless of how you turn it around, if you change what the government has adopted here by a broad majority in the Folketing, it will be a very great tax relief for some of the groups in Danish society that already serve allerallermost. It will be, and that is why we have been very, very clear from the outset. We want to free up money and funds to make priorities in young people's education, the green transition track, which in no way got the breadth and pace of the previous government. We have done so now, and the change of direction that has taken place with the change of government is expressed in the priority that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212701	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212704	I'm gonna go check with the minister about something. If a family-owned company, and let us say that it is a company that has a large production plant, is going to have a generational change, are they going to have to pay this tax, and would it be normal for them to have to sell parts of their production business? Can the Minister tell us about this? Will it be necessary for them to sell some of their machines in order to afford to pay the tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212732	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212735	After all, it is difficult to answer the specific example. We are happy to give examples, and we have done so in the course of the legislative process. The key point is that, when we look at the calculations underlying them, and also under the previous government, there is nothing to say that a cut in billions for company heirs will lead to more growth and increased employment to a significant extent. It has been, like the argument from the bourgeois side, that it will. Since you were responsible, you couldn't point it out. Of course, we think it is the right thing to do as we have done and thereby free up funds to make investments in the future that will ensure that we get more growth and more employment in Denmark. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212817	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212819	It is probably true that the Ministry cannot count on it, because as far as I understand it, the Ministry cannot assess where it is, these family businesses are going to be turned into generations. You simply don't have a data base in the Ministry where you can see exactly how things work because the IT system is so old, so you can't dig it out. The Minister may now try to give a straight answer as to whether that is correct. So would I say that it has been made very clear in analyses by others than the Ministry that many companies have to sell out parts of the company in order to be able to pay this generational tax, so does the Minister believe that Denmark benefits from selling parts of the companies to pay a tax and thus ensure that there are fewer jobs in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212902	The government believes that the priority we have given here, together with a majority in the Danish Parliament, is the release of funds to invest in, for example, education and climate-friendly conversion, the green transition, and this helps to ensure that Denmark also has something to live on in the future. Without having to start a long polemical discussion, I think it can be said calmly that it is true that what this government took over was a tax ministry that was worn out in many ways, and that is what we are working to restore.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212932	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Troels Ravn of the Social Democrats, please be ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415212959	Thank you for the floor. With this motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution want to reduce the tax on the transfer of businesses from 15 to 5%. In other words, this is a repeat of the tax reduction carried out by the VLAK Government in 2017, but which the Social Democratic Government rolled back in the context of the 2020 Finance Act when we implemented a uniform residence and gift tax of 15%. In the Social Democratic Party we want good conditions for Danish companies. That is why we introduced a deferral scheme which would allow the settlement tax to be paid over 30 years and set in motion a group of experts to propose a new model to calculate the value of the company when we rolled back the VLAK government's relaxation of the corporate housing and gift tax, just as we helped to introduce the possibility of tax-free transfer of business to commercial funds. However, we cannot support the proposal to reduce the tax on housing and gifts again, and there are three main reasons for this. Firstly, it would be a skewed tax relief for wealthy corporate heirs and particularly wealthy groups in society. The Ministry of Taxation's statements show that about one third of the general settlement fee is paid by beneficiaries belonging to the group of Danes who have the 10%. highest incomes. It is expected from the Ministry of Taxation that the payment of the estate tax in connection with transfers of undertakings is even more concentrated at the top of the distribution of income. The proposal will therefore move towards greater income disparities and more inequality, and the Social Democrats do not want that. Secondly, both the OECD, the Productivity Council and the Economic Council have concluded that the unequal tax relief implemented by the VLAK government, which the Left wishes to reiterate here, can lead to reduced productivity and lower earnings in Danish business. The proposal will favour a certain type of change of ownership and thus distort the economy. Nor will the Social Democrats be involved in this. Thirdly, the roll-back of the VLAK government's biased tax relief helped to finance a huge increase in welfare. We think this was a fair priority, and we have no interest in rolling it back. The proposers have not explained the precise financing of the proposal, but merely referred to the party's financial priorities from 2021. For these reasons, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213243	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, first of all to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213248	It is actually a financing proposal, that is, our financial law proposal. I am aware that the government has spent the money on something else, but the Left has not. The Left did not vote in favour of these proposals. If it is then that this company, which has invested all its money in production facilities, has to sell parts of the company in order to afford to pay it here, can the rapporteur tell me how much tax will have to be paid before you can find the money to pay the generational tax? Because it's not just that you take the 15%. Out of business, out of business, out of business, out of business, out of business, out of business, out of business, out of business, out of business, out of business, No, you have to take a bigger share, because you first have to pay a tax on what you take out of the company, and then you can use the money to pay another tax. So the money is taxed several times. Can the rapporteur say how much net taxation is then when it is the case that you first have to withdraw the money from the company and pay tax on it and then pay the generational tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213341	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213343	No, but what's quite clear to me is that we can use this money, so 1 billion. kr. It is also very important for companies, which have a huge impact on the framework conditions of companies. In other words, we invest in education, in upgrading, in children and young people, we invest in jobs and we invest in core welfare. It will have far more impact on our cohesion and on our society than if we give unfair tax cuts to those who are the most wealthy in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213437	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213438	In fact, there are some of these companies that may experience a tax of over 50% when you consider that they first have to take the money out of the company and pay tax on it and then pay the generational tax. It is quite a high level of taxation that they actually experience, compared to the fact that it is just the next generation that has to take over the business and actually have to drive it further. It sounds like the Social Democrats are just opposed to the ownership of family-owned companies. Why is it such a problem for the Socialists that there are family-owned companies in Denmark? Should everything be owned by foreign capital funds or by the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213513	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213513-2	No, and the Social Democratic Party has no quarrel with family-owned companies. Among other things: also in connection with the bill, when we carried out an increase in the housing and gift tax from 5% to 15%, we introduced a salesman's letter, for example in agriculture, which is of enormous importance in order to make a generational change and which the agricultural organisations themselves also recommended. In the bill here, the Left itself mentions rural areas, and it is unbelievable that the Left will also retain, for example, what we have funded with our roll-back here, which is that we have settled your re-priority contribution and thus also made it possible to develop education in rural areas. So I would like to ask that the proposers also see the bill here in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213607	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213609	It is almost bound up with the insolentness of saying that we are creating jobs with a tax that has been imposed, which is pulling out jobs. There's no connection in that. Shouldn't we have this myth knocked to the ground once and for all? This is a generational tax on companies, and if people are to inherit, they are still subject to an inheritance tax. To the whole idea of giving it to those people, I would say that it is for companies. So can the rapporteur not confirm, even though it has now been said two or three times that he will not give it to those who are rich, that this is precisely and specifically aimed at companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213657	After all, the framework conditions for companies are far more and more than tax, and creating jobs is also, for example, that we, as a community, invest in education and training, that we invest in welfare, and that is what we have spent the money from this biased tax relief on. I can only understand that the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party must also be impressed by the fact that the OECD, the Productivity Council and the Economic Council conclude that the unequal tax relief carried out by the VLAK government, which the Left now wishes to repeat, has led to reduced productivity, lower earnings in the Danish economy. That's gotta make an impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213743	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213744	It's just about to border on Comic Ali. This is a deeply, deeply damaging tax, and countries like Norway, Sweden, Austria and Switzerland have completely abolished it here, and they have done so because this tax in no way makes sense. It damages productivity, and it creates a black market for people who try to shift money over in an unfine way, while at the same time damaging the Danish business community. There's nothing positive about this tax at all. But this government has done nothing but withdraw people from employment, so the whole idea of raising employment, investing in employment, when do we see it? So far, we only have ratios that show that people have been pulled out of work in this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213831	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213832	In fact, this tax relief, which the Left and New Citizens will roll back, has led to a skewed tax relief for the most wealthy in our society, and now we have rolled it back, and we are spending the money on what strengthens our community, education, general welfare, upgrading, everything our companies are also asking for. And where I come from, for example, the re-priority contribution has really been felt, because it has meant millions of savings in our schools and our educational institutions, but it is over now, and it is also something that matters to our companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213914	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415213936	This motion for a resolution is about rolling back an increase in the generational tax on family-owned businesses. This is a proposal that we in the Danish People's Party fully agree with. We helped put down the movement, which is why it is not surprising. I do not think that today's positions are so surprising. It hasn't been that long since we had the discussion. But I also think that in order for us to have a proper discussion, it will soon be distorted that we need to get a look at what is really at stake. Because, as I have already mentioned, there are two things that determine what the tax will be. One is what you are taxed, that is to say the tax rate, and then the other is what you are taxed by, which is the assessment. The historical story in this is that Benny Engelbrecht, as tax minister, abolished what was called the property tax rate. This was a way to make a predictable assessment of a company, and then you had something like the one leg of the assessment: what you are taxed by and it then brought to the Treasury about 900 million. kr., I think it was. Then, when there was a blue majority, we agreed that we would not make it more expensive to make a generational change for a family-owned company. We then had the choice whether to introduce what is called the property tax rate, which is one leg, or whether to make a lower tax rate. We didn't choose to reinstate the property tax rate because it actually hit awkwardly. It was in fact to the benefit of large companies, those with very high goodwill, and a disadvantage for those who were small enterprises, i.e. craft enterprises and very small family-owned enterprises. Because it would be wrong, we chose to say that it would actually be more equal if the money were kept within the system. One may disagree that it should not be more expensive to be a family-owned company and to change, but we then chose to lower the rate. But then we put a little bit on top of it, because the property tax rate gave about 900 million. kr., and the tax relief is now 1 billion. kr. So there's 100 million. kr. In contrast, I acknowledge that. However, the aim was not, in fact, a huge reduction for the vastest, or that it is the largest companies that will benefit most. In fact, that was not the aim of it, and that was not the result of it. But you can also hear today that the debate is completely distorted by the fact that it is now the goal to give the wildly rich Danes a huge tax relief. No. You got more money in the box because you turned up the rating, and then we just chose to turn down the second leg, which determines the total tax. But the goal was not a huge tax relief. But now we have chosen from the red majority in the Folketing, and it is their right to raise the tax rate again. So now there is an unchanged tax rate, but again with the high rating. So now we end up with a higher taxation for family-owned companies of around 900 million. kr. At least. I think that is a pity, because the family-owned companies are therefore a basic family in our business community. Six out of ten employees work in a family-owned company, and of course there are also some large between, but the vast majority of the total Danish company spectrum is small and medium-sized enterprises. So we really think it is a pity that, after all, we could not just have a factual debate about whether it is reasonable for family-owned companies to have to pay more taxes. This is actually the case if you look back at the whole process when Benny Engelbrecht chose to raise the assessment on the companies. So it is not a discussion about whether or not it should be tax relief. It is whether it should be a tax increase or not. Because that is what lies in the historical perspective. It may be a disadvantage sometimes that one has been a tax rapporteur many times and has been sitting in this terrible area, but right here it is actually an advantage that one has had the whole process with. Maybe it could help somebody on the left. 'Cause I think it's too bad. As I said, we think that the family-owned companies are a good foundation in the Danish business community, and we would actually like to ensure that they are here. I mean, they give a lot of value. It is the case that most companies start as family owners. It is not really so crucial to me whether it is the assessment that should be higher or lower, or the rate, but at least we should not tax them more comprehensively. That's why we think this is actually a good proposal. We support it. I think it's straight off the road. Surely we should not tax our family-owned companies harder. They must then be allowed to keep the money and invest in some companies, so that instead of six out of ten employees it could be seven out of ten or eight out of ten. Surely I would like to have as many employees as possible in good, healthy businesses, and we will not get that by pulling the money out of them. However, I think, for the future debate today and also for the future, that we need to include history. So this is not about a huge tax relief for the richest. On the contrary, it was a tax increase for the companies concerned. Well, the Danish People's Party can support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214402	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214417	Thank you very much. SF helped raise the tax on generational change in family-owned companies. We did so as part of the Finance Act in 2020. The tax on the generational change in family-owned companies was then brought back into line with the general inheritance tax. At the same time, it was made possible to distribute the tax over time etc. to provide as good a framework as possible. In this proposal, there is a need for funding of approx. 1 billion kr., if it is rolled back, and the proposal is flabby and purely top-class politics, and that is by no means something that we from the SF can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214457	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214500	Compared to the 850,000 Danes who work in family-owned companies, as far as I remember, SF would rather work in a fund or in the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214510	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214512	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214517	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214524	But why do we make sure that the tax is raised so much for the companies in which they work that they have to sell parts of the company in order to get new generations to take over them and get the company to survive?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214536	It is also a violent exaggeration and not necessarily what is the case with this relatively modest generational tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214538	There are no more brief remarks to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin, thank you. Then it is the radical rapporteur Mrs Kathrine Ollldag's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214555	Thank you, President. As much praise as the last resolution was given, it should not be praised here, because this proposal belongs to me in the less realistic policy section. The proposers also know that this is closed and turned off by part of a financial agreement, so it is perhaps actually fine, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also says, to have such a more general discussion of this. One can start a little by pondering over the language, for a roll-back of the treble of the tax on generational change, which the Left calls the change of law that the government, together with the support parties, carried out in 2020, would call a normalisation. For us, it makes fundamental sense that the inheritance tax is the same, as the DF's rapporteur also says. Well, one thing is the movement, another is the assessment. And that the rate is the same place for all estate and inheritance taxes makes great sense for the Radical Left, and that has also been one of the reasons why the estate and inheritance tax has swung like a pendulum across the middle of Danish politics depending on who was in power. But what was and is the real challenge is not the percentage of the rate, but the basis. And it was a headache for the previous government that solved the problem by slamming down the tax completely and putting it at 5%, because, as the DF's rapporteur says, the assessment was just hard to hit properly. The current government and the support parties have thus got the same problem. I fully admit that, and I think we have all acknowledged that. We have therefore passed the matter on to a working group which, I am told, will present some solutions this summer. I have also asked a few questions about when this summer, and then I have been told that it will be late summer, so we will have to wait for that. Because whether we tax the commercial value of a company or whether we value it via the secular solution, there are advantages and disadvantages of all models. But what I mainly hear companies screaming for is that we find a model so that they know what to do about it. They really just want us to solve this problem because they're preoccupied with predictability. So I would like to take this opportunity to say to the tax minister that we are very much looking forward to seeing the recommendations of the working group very much. So there is no doubt that the estate tax and inheritance tax will certainly continue to commute across the middle every time power changes side, and that is why the Left probably just needed to mention that they still think the same as they did when they had the power of government last time, and they have had the opportunity to do so now. But real policy right now is not, and the Radical Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214852	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214855	After all, the cost circle was removed in 2015 by the then tax minister, Benny Engelbrecht, when there was an SR government. Will the radical rapporteur, Mrs Kathrine Olldag, admit that increasing revenue was generated by changing the valuation, so that a higher valuation was obtained? It may be that you do not change the rate, but when you increase the valuation and it is the same rate, the amount you pay becomes larger. Will the rapporteur agree to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214930	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214931	Yeah. Well, I'm a linguistic student, but I guess that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214940	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415214941	Can we then expect that when this working group arrives, when it is set up, it will come back with the same level as it was when this circular was removed, or has it been seen as a permanent increase in taxes on the part of the Radicals by simply adding the cut after you get in the same way as you did? In other words, we reduced the rate for achieving the same revenue that was obtained in the past. Now you have increased the rate, but at the same time it is also a higher estimate and thus it becomes a higher revenue. Is this the same revenue as what is currently being wagered by Radicals, or is that what was with the old valuation that was?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215016	As far as I remember, when we made the agreement, we made an extremely handheld mandate for this working group we have been talking about. In that mandate it is among other things. Mr President, I would like to say that we would very much like to have some objective criteria for a valuation. I hope that can be done. I am very curious whether that wish is met or whether it actually turns out that it is difficult to do something that is objective in this context. We'll have to look into that. In addition, there is a revenue that we have to hit, and that is also what the working group's mandate said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215051	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215054	First of all, I would like to say thank you for a good, objective speech, not that I necessarily agree with all the political messages, but I actually think it was very factual and you didn't have this fake campaign that they were huge tax cuts. The premise is actually recognised, also in the answer to my fellow woman here, that it was, of course, about the ratings being high and we then chose to set the rate down. I think it is fair to say that the rate has now been normalized, but then the assessment has been similarly high. That is why it is crucial, as Mrs Schack Elholm next to me says, whether you want the same revenue or whether the aim is also to reduce the assessment, because otherwise the radical rapporteur will have to acknowledge that we have a tax which is approx. 900 million kr. to 1 billion. kr. I do not know if that is what the Radicals want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215141	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215142	That is certainly not what we want. We want, and then I can continue where I finally reached, that the proceeds will affect what we have also in the mandate of the working group, which is where it should be. That is what was in the Finance Act and, as far as I remember, it was 1 billion. kr. If it then turns out, when the working group returns, that the proceeds are significantly higher because the value base has also changed, then we have to see another basis, and then the whole framework of that agreement has actually pushed itself. So the task of the working group is inter alia: to find a basis for that revenue. So there are two things: there is the rate and there is the assessment, and the two things must be compatible, so we hit a billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215236	I think we miss each other a little bit, if only in what is the aim of it. Because I recognise that a working group has been set up to make more predictable assessments, and that is a good thing, but what I hear from the working group is, after all, to find out what the revenue will be, based on what has been agreed in the Finance Act. That's the one billion. kr. Too high, in my opinion, because it has not been taken into account that this wealth tax circular has been removed in the past, which suddenly gave these high and unpredictable assessments. So what Radicals get out of that working group is a billion. kr. more in generational change taxation than what was actually said to business owners back under Benny Engelbrecht as tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215311	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215312	Yeah, that's right, and that's because we had to find 1 billion. kr. Well, we were in the process of finding joint funding proposals for our Finance Act, which we were going to do together with the government and the other support parties. So again: that is probably a question of opinion. That's where we found the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215328	I would like to thank the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215346	Thank you. Basically, the proposal we are discussing now seems quite unreasonable. An employee who inherits a summer house has to pay 15%. in inheritance tax on amounts above the bottom limit, but the heir to ECCO or Danfoss would then pay 5%. in inheritance tax. It is a form of wealthy policy that is usually seen only in the United States and, fortunately, rarely in Denmark, and it is good that this tax relief was rolled back. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215421	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215436	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Left proposes that we roll back the treble of the tax on generational change in family-owned businesses. It is also part of the draft budget that we presented in the Conservative People's Party, and that is why we can also support the resolution. The proposal is, of course, a consequence of the fact that, unfortunately, the present government, as one of the very first, increased the tax on the generational change of family-owned businesses from 5% to 15%. with effect from 2020 and, of course, we want to roll that back. The family-owned companies employ six out of ten private employees in Denmark and account for more than 70%. of Danish exports, and they are crucial for Danish prosperity and welfare. These are both large companies and very small, local companies such as the United Kingdom. merchants, small craft businesses and small farms and many other small businesses, which are now able to look forward to very large bills at the turn of the generation because of the government's increase in taxation, and these are large bills that affect some of the companies. It is not unusual for a family-owned company to pay a million dollars now, even though the company's value is actually quite small, and we think this is disproportionate and has implications for the ability of companies to create jobs and growth. We do not think this is the right way to treat our family-owned companies, and we are therefore voting in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215610	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215636	This generational tax is deeply damaging to Denmark. That's how short it can be said. One of the cornerstones of Denmark's history and our success is family-owned companies, and when you treat them in this way, it can only be seen as an expression that you have no respect for the historical aspect and for what has made Denmark good and great. Unfortunately, this is moving Denmark in a direction where the state plays a greater role and where large capital societies, pension schemes and others will play an even greater role instead of these family businesses. This is a development that we absolutely do not like in New Citizens, and that is why we can support a proposal to reduce generation taxation. But we also believe that we should go further. We believe that it must be completely abolished, because when we have problems with it being uprooted, it is because it has not been abolished, and then it is because the last government unfortunately did not have the courage to abolish it, because then we would have to introduce a whole new tax. I hope that when the majority changes, and I hope that soon it does, it can be a common bourgeois project to have this tax removed and removed completely, so that one cannot talk about reclaiming it so polemically and rhetorically saying that one is reclaiming the tax, or anything else. For no, if you want to introduce an inheritance tax or a generation tax, you have to introduce a new tax on family businesses, and you have to stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215839	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415215849	Thank you. Thank you for the debate, which was perhaps not so surprising. In Denmark we have 60 000 family-owned companies and, as the Conservative rapporteur said, they contribute 70%. of Danish exports. In the region I come from, Region Sjælland, 90%. of all companies owned and family owned. That is a very, very large number of jobs. 850,000 jobs in Denmark are in owner-managed and family-owned companies. And what does it mean when you set up the treasure as much as this government has done? This means that you have to take more money out of the company when it is that you have to change the generation; when a new generation is going to. That is not what we are talking about; what we are talking about is that there is a new generation to take over the company because the old generation is getting too old. That is why we need a new generation; otherwise the company cannot survive. They have to pay a tax for that; there is a penalty for that. And it is actually very expensive, because not only do you have to pay the generational change tax, no, because when you take the money out of the company, you also have to pay the dividend tax, tax of a lot of different things. For some companies it may amount to 80%. of their equity, they have to pay in tax because they have to change generation. Not all companies can stand up to it. Some people simply have to sell themselves to others, and we know that not all companies are as faithful in maintaining jobs in Denmark as the family owners are. For the family owners are in Denmark because they belong in Denmark. Their family is in Denmark. They are engaged in the local area to a degree that you don't see many other types of companies being. If you sell it to a foreign fund, it is easier to move jobs abroad. And it is very important for the local area if jobs just disappear. It is important that we have the family-owned companies that invest in local areas and that invest in jobs locally. We can see from studies that some of the companies are investing a lot in developing companies too. It is of great importance that they be drained of capital in this way, and in the end it will cost jobs and growth for Denmark. This government chose to raise the tax from 6%. 15%. It's a massive increase. The government says they did it because we lowered it from 15%. to 6%, and as we have already heard in the debate, this is due to the fact that in 2015 the then Social Democratic tax minister abolished the valuation that was of the generational change of family-owned companies, so it is now much harder to assess how much they have to pay. This also meant that the assessment increased significantly, and the revenue that was paid in extra, we then chose to spend on lowering the rate instead. So we got the same revenue as they did before the Socialists abolished the circular; it was just a cleaner way of implementing this. But it must obviously be expensive to have family-owned companies in Denmark. One might almost suspect that there is a vendetta against family-owned companies in Denmark • despite the growth and the many jobs that we get from the family-owned companies. There is no doubt that this is going to mean that jobs are moving out of the country. And that's why we're really sorry that this is supposed to be something that separates in half. We would like this to be something that we could seek a majority in several places, because we think it ought to be an agenda that several of us shared in Denmark: to secure these jobs in Denmark. Thanks for the treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220230	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220236	Thank you. I would like to know if the Left will not join the bourgeois car in this and then say that the world's highest tax burden we cannot continue to have. And that is why I would like to ask whether the Left will support the new Civil and Conservatives when we come forward with a motion for a resolution on the complete abolition of this tax, not only the generational tax, but also the inheritance tax, that is, a clean cut, so that we do not again have some socialists who just turn the button, but so that we remove it so that they have to introduce a new tax if they think they will do so here. And before they say that it will be far too expensive, I would just like to point out that it will only cost 3.7 billion. kr.; that is to say, it is 0.3 per cent. of the cake.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220325	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220327	I actually think I'm on the bourgeois wagon. I have before me a motion for a resolution to reduce the tax on the generational change of family-owned businesses, and I think that is a civil matter. Then I am well aware that both new citizens and Conservatives want to go further, but we cannot finance it in our draft budget, and that is why we bring what we can finance. I appreciate the support we have received. I forgot about that, too. I'm sorry. Thank you for your support for the Conservatives, for New Citizens, for the Danish People's Party, so to support this, but we can't get funding for any more. We are a responsible economic party, so we must therefore find funding for everything we propose and everything we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220403	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220405	The funding for abolishing both the inheritance tax and the generational change tax costs 3.7 billion. kr. That's what we give every year to Denmark's Radio. So we can choose to privatise Denmark's Radio, and we can even get some money into it, or we can choose to remove the inheritance tax and the generational tax... something that is deeply harmful, as the Left says, for the family-owned. So what does the Left support the DR monstrosity out there or the family-owned companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220431	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220433	The Left supports the family-owned companies and that is why we have tabled this proposal. We support the need for family-owned companies to ensure growth, prosperity and jobs in Denmark. That's why we're proposing this. And it is so fervently our wish that we can create more growth and prosperity in Denmark, so I do not see the major problem that the rapporteur is trying to draw here. I believe that what we are trying to do is to create a sensible future for Denmark and an opportunity for us to continue to have these many jobs, 850,000, in private family-owned companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220507	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220512	Thank you. I would just like to follow this up a little bit, because we had a government basis under the VLAK government, with the aim of completely abolishing the inheritance tax by 2025. Does the Left no longer agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220531	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220534	I also hope that one day we will be able to abolish it completely, but I cannot finance it now. I can only vote for things that I can finance. That is what is involved in being a financially responsible party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220543	Is there a follow-up question? No. Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210415220601	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, April 16, 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
