ParlaMint-DK_20211210100002	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Pernille Skipper (EL) and Mai Villads (EL): Request no. 19 to give children the right to more legal parents than two. The title of the reported case will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. From a member of the Folketing of Lars Christian Lilleholt (V), who is on leave, I have been informed that from 14 December 2021 onwards he can again meet in Tinget. Mark Grossmanns (V) shall cease to be a member of the Folketing as from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210100039	The debate is open. First, the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210100113	Thank you. And thank you to the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance for tabling resolutions to update the security contingency plans and prepare learning courses on the Mohammed crisis for use in primary education. This is by no means the first time we have debated this issue. The debate flared up after the terrible murder of the French teacher Samuel Paty in response to the fact that he had shown the Mohammed drawings in his teaching. And the government's position must be clear: we cannot and will not accept extremists using violence or threats to try to restrict our freedom of expression. We should not censor ourselves, whether it is in the columns of newspapers, in the Folketing or in teaching or elsewhere. No one, and the least of all undemocratic extremists, has the right to decide what to say in a free country. For this reason, the government, together with a majority in the Folketing, has agreed to double the penalty for threats arising from the legitimate statements of wrongdoers in the public debate or, moreover, to prevent the wrongdoers from making use of their freedom of expression in the public debate. Freedom of expression is the foundation of a democratic society, and that is why we must safeguard it with all our strength. And with this doubling of the penalty, I also believe that we are sending out a very unequivocal signal that we will use the hardest tools of democracy and the justice system in connection with crimes of this nature. In relation to the hardest tools, when you talk about punishment, you can say that it is one way to go and that the other way to go is where you talk about self-censorship, and it is much more complicated. On the part of the government, we believe that we should go both ways at the same time, so that we use the tools that are necessary. Because it is easy to say in relation to the self-censorship that we will not tolerate extremists threatening, but when people choose to shut their mouths out of fear without a specific threat, the solutions become less obvious. So where there is a specific threat, it is up to our police and our judicial system. However, where there is no concrete threat, but where there is a sense of a concrete threat, which is also real, it is much more difficult in terms of how we should get to it and tackle the solutions to it. Freedom of speech does not mean that you can demand that others say what you want them to say. And I believe that Parliament's parties must and should have the opportunity to have a thorough, thorough discussion of that particular challenge, and that is why, in the new year, the Minister for Justice will call for discussions on how we deal with the difficult part of it, namely the self-censorship, if one can say so. And it is not to ignore the fact that there are also tough negotiations on punishment; that is certainly the case. However, where we are dealing with police and penal sanctions, we can point out a few tools, and we have also done so by saying that we are going in and doubling the penalty. But how do we get rid of the self - centurion? It is a really difficult question, but nevertheless one that we need to get hold of. I am sure that I hope, at least, that the proposers will support the parties taking a proper and thorough discussion of that challenge. Although there is agreement that self-censorship is a problem that needs to be resolved, the debate also tells me that there are some fundamental differences about the way there. But I hope that we can get all the different roads we now have on the table and have a thorough discussion of them. I always think that we should be very careful about introducing rules which are intended to support teachers' freedom of method, but which are then restricted at the same time. In other words, we have to find a way through this type of problem, taking into account what sort of corners we have cut off from our own freedom in the desire to maintain or expand a different degree of freedom, and at least those things have to be weighed up in relation to each other. After all, the Danish school tradition is based on a freedom of method that teachers have enjoyed since 1814 and I think that is a freedom that we should guard against. And that's why it's not so simple that you can just say, "Why don't we just decide that you have to teach your dut and thatt?" Yes, we do not, because there is in fact a very high degree of freedom in not deciding centrally from the state what is to be taught in the individual classroom. That is why we must at least take account of the freedom of one person and discuss it, while at the same time discussing the consideration of the other freedom, including the freedom of speech that teachers have and the fear of self-censorship, which is quite real. So that is not to say that the government believes that we must simply accept the state of affairs. On the contrary, we have already started a number of things which support teachers' teaching on controversial issues. Among other things: an awareness effort to ensure that teachers know the existing approaches if they experience an insecurity-building behaviour or experience signs of radicalisation. In addition, we have held theme days for teachers and school leaders in education on controversial subjects and critical thinking across primary, vocational and vocational schools, and we will continue to do so in the spring, when another theme day will be held in the field of secondary education. Lately, we have also updated the guidelines on security and crisis preparedness and also the guidance called prevention and handling violence and threats. They have been updated here in December 2021 and are therefore completely up-to-date in relation to the need to dress the teachers to handle the difficult situations and the insecurity-building behaviour. So it can be said that the tools that are directly in favour of doing something about it have been set in motion, and we continue to do so, and I believe that we should be able to do so in parallel with doubling the penalties and at the same time tackling the difficult question of self-censorship. So those things should not wait for each other, but should be parallel tracks that can run out there at the same time. The guidelines that guide schools in what a contingency plan should contain have therefore been updated. That is part of the proposal we are debating here today, and it can therefore be said that the part of the proposal we are debating today has been accepted. Then the motion for a resolution also proposes the development of educational material on the Mohammed crisis, and that is why I say that guidance has already been drawn up last year on emu.dk, which provides knowledge and inspiration for teaching controversial issues and critical thinking. I have previously denied that the Ministry of Children and Education should produce teaching materials about the Muhammad crisis for emu.dk, for the reason that emu.dk is not used for teaching materials. So we have had that discussion in the past, so even if you can say that it is not at all what emu.dk is being used for or is being made for, it is important that teachers can use emu.dk for what it is actually made for, namely help when looking for relevant material, for example. on the subject of freedom of expression. I would ask the Directorate for Education and Quality, i.e. STUK, to extend the existing articles emu.dk to include references to external teaching materials on freedom of expression as far as possible. And then I would say that there is no reference in principle to material that requires payment, so there are some limitations in there, but we will try to expand, and we do so continuously with emu.dk, so that you can refer to material. In addition, this motion for a resolution proposes that the Muhammed crisis be introduced into the history canon. This is a proposal that I have dealt with in the past, and my position has not changed in this way. There is no doubt that the Muhammed crisis is a landmark for Denmark and for our relations with the outside world, and it can be said that this is also why today there is already a point in the history canon on 11 September 2001, which, of course, provides an excellent opportunity to precisely teach the issue of the Muhammed crisis. But we must also be aware that the history cannon has a character where there are very few impact points over many, many years. And that means that this whole issue of taking a whole lot of current problems into the history canon would break with what is at least the construction of the history canon as it is today, and precisely because there is a point about 11 September, there is an opportunity to take the whole after-play of it, during the Muhammad crisis, into the teaching as a starting point for it. And that is why we do not support that part of the proposal. Then I would like to say that something that is extremely important to me is to have this discussion with those who are involved, namely teachers and school leaders and pupils, as well as the other parties in the primary school, which we have gathered in the forum called "Sammen om skole', and there I have asked at the meeting we had last Monday whether there was any interest in us discussing the precise question of self-censorship and teaching on difficult subjects such as the Mohammed drawings, that is, in that forum, and that was what they wanted to do, and that is why we are going to have a discussion there. And I cannot know yet where these things end up either in relation to the history canon or, incidentally, in relation to the question of teaching materials that we are discussing today, and I think we should really go to it with open foreheads. These are some new issues in Danish democracy to take into account, and that is why, of course, we in the government will also be open to the different views we already know in advance about this among that group. So it's just to say that now I've made public the views of the government in relation to where we stand on it now. But it is also clear that some things come up in the school together, where you have a very marked desire for certain things, then I will go without prejudice to it. For me, it's important that we keep the balance around having a boat... love for but also a guardian of the Danish school tradition, so that we do not put it all at risk in order to solve an immediate problem. On the other hand, there may be things where you just have to say that the world has changed so much that we have to go in and look at adjusting to what is the Danish school tradition, and then we have to take it from there. So I look forward to having this discussion together exactly in school and taking the input into it, so that we also have that input when the Minister of Justice calls for the upcoming discussions on how to deal with the self-censorship. But, overall, we cannot support the motion for a resolution in this House. On the other hand, we can certainly support the fact that there is attention on this issue and that this is something that we must take very seriously. This is, of course, already reflected in the recent measures taken by the government in the form of doubling the penalty, not least, and, of course, the things that we have taken the initiative of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101315	There are brief comments. First, Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101320	Thank you. The Minister says she would like to have a proper discussion, but I would just remind you that it is more than a year ago that a whole series of parties in the Folketing put this on the agenda, and when there is no educational material, it will ultimately be the veto of the perpetrator, because it is then that in classrooms you are really afraid of teaching where it is that you end up receiving reprisals, either in the form of threats or what is much worse. Then you also end up moving towards tabooism, where you cannot teach at all in the Muhammad crisis and cannot talk about what happened at the time during the Mohammed crisis, and then it ends up as taboo. We just have to say that taboos are not solved by theme days. So I just want to ask the Minister why this is so difficult. I can only see that it has to be either because it is a very difficult issue, and that is fair enough, but then we have to take care of it, or it is because this is just not on the Minister's radar and because she does not really think it is an important issue. So is it either difficult, or secondary because the minister just doesn't think it's important?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101427	It is not the case that nothing has happened since last year, we should remember. That's kind of what I'm saying from up here. We've doubled our sentence since last year. So it is not a question that nothing has happened since we had this discussion last time. Emu.dk has been updated. Emergency plans have been updated. Themed days have been held where you as a teacher have been able to participate in just being upgraded in how we deal with these difficult topics. So I definitely think something has happened since last year. That just doesn't mean we're in the finish line. I do not think that, with the things that have happened over the past year, we are there where the problem has been resolved, and that is also why the government has called for discussions on the part that is really difficult and that is about self-censorship. After all, it is difficult to reveal when self-censorship is involved, because how do we get there, how much is it, and in what situations teachers feel they have to impose themselves not to talk about specific issues, and how do we deal with it? One might say that the easy answer is, of course, the answer we have already given, namely to double the penalty, but I think it takes more than that, and that is precisely why we have set these things in motion. But when it's hard, it's because part of this also comes across a Danish school tradition that we don't centrally dictate how to put the teaching together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101540	Then it's Mrs. Mai Mercado. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101542	So what the minister has done in his own area now we are not talking about other ministerial areas, but about his own area is to make some theme days. To be honest, I find this a little disappointing when you see that what is really needed out there is that it will be possible to enter into the difficult discussions and that there are a great many teachers who feel that they are being pushed in the front, but that they do not have the politicians in their backs. And as long as there is no centrally formulated teaching material and publishers do not dare to make teaching material, the teachers stand alone on the verge, and that is just not appropriate. That is why I have to ask again: what does the Minister intend to do about it in addition to making theme days next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101621	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101622	I get the feeling that the rapporteur will not hear what I am saying and therefore only include one part of what has happened over the past year. The very thing about having the Ministry of Education in the back, in relation to how to teach subjects like this with the Mohammed drawings, is exactly what we have done on emu.dk. So one way or another, either the rapporteur does not understand what I am saying or the rapporteur will not understand what I am saying. Because quite a lot has actually happened, including in the field of education, since last year. That doesn't mean we're in the finish line. This simply means that we have taken, in my opinion too, some rather significant steps in tackling these very issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101700	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101702	Thank you so much. The minister calls it an immediate problem. I mean, this is a problem that has come from the fact that there has been a totally misguided immigration policy for decades. And now, unfortunately, we are in a situation today where teachers must submit to the violent veto and must submit themselves to self-censorship because they are concerned about, very really, what can happen if it is they are teaching this. On 4 March we had this vote on what was called V 80 and V 79, which were some proposals for adoption in connection with a question debate, so the Minister has had plenty of time to convene the discussions which the Minister is talking about now, and then we could actually have acted on it. We can only note now that we are standing here soon a year later and nothing has happened that is relevant to make a difference. Why is it that the Minister is so reluctant to do this? For no, Minister, there are plenty of past times when you have written things into the history canon, for example, because it is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101814	Thank you. Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101816	However, it is a little thought-provoking that the New Citizens' rapporteur says that nothing has happened. So, one of the things that has happened is exactly what is being proposed in this motion for a resolution. So if it is the case that the rapporteur himself thinks it is nothing, it is nevertheless remarkable that it has been written into a motion for a resolution by the rapporteur himself. One of the things that is being proposed is that emergency plans should be updated, and I think that is quite relevant. This is, in fact, one of the things that we have used our energies to do over the past year, and they have just been updated. In other words, either you think that the proposal you have put forward will actually bear something or you do not. It cannot be said that it is nothing when we have actually done one of the things that lies in this resolution. At any rate, it is very strange that we should spend time discussing this in the Chamber at the rapporteur's initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101900	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101901	Oh, that was a little cheap off the hook. Sorry. It was a little cheap. We discussed this with the contingency plans. In any case, I remember discussing this last time in this Chamber. Well, it's insanely important to find out what to do if this happens. But what is even more important is to ensure that teachers are not standing out there alone and that they are not the ones who have to pull this up. For the Muhammad crisis is an insanely important part of Denmark's history. It's landmark, and of course it needs to be taught, and of course the teachers shouldn't stand alone in the classroom and come up with this material for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101938	Thank you. Of course, it is extenuating to apologize for the expression of power yourself, but it does not prevent them from coming. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210101945	Now the rapporteur says that we were already discussing last year, that emergency plans had to be updated, and indeed that is what we have been doing. What we have done is to update the contingency plans. So, in one way or another, there is just no coherence in what is being said by the rapporteur. One might think that it matters that there are updated contingency plans, and then one makes a proposal in the Folketing about it. We have had the discussion here last year, and we have then spent the time actually updating them. So that's exactly what happened. And then I would say that on emu.dk there is also now, unlike last year, material on how to tackle teaching these subjects.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102025	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102026	It is necessary to reduce the risk for the individual teacher to teach the Muhammad crisis, and it is necessary that all children in Denmark know something about the Muhammad crisis, both in primary and secondary school. You can do this in several ways: You can make a theme day where you show something centrally produced material for the whole school. Then there's not one particular teacher you can go and cut off your head when you get mad that it's being shown. This will reduce the risk and everyone will get the knowledge that is needed. We have a common sports day in October, where everyone is out running, and we have Operation Daywork in high school, where left-wing brainwashing is allowed by young people, and all is done on the same day of the year. Why is it not possible to make a theme day with lessons in the Muhammad crisis on the same day of the year, because then we will reduce the risk for all teachers and we will avoid there being teachers who either do not dare to teach it or get their heads cut off?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102128	Now Operation Daywork is an example of something that has just not been decided at the heart of the matter. That's what I think is always the concern here. I would not deny that this is where we are going, and that is what I am trying to say. I think we should have a discussion together about the school on how we can get on with this. This would also be relevant in the new forum we are setting up in the context of youth education. It is just to say that it is precisely the clash between a school tradition where things are decided locally and where teachers are faced with the freedom of method they have, on the one hand, and a situation that attributes to the political system that we are going much closer behind teachers and helping them tackle the situation which is, after all, extremely horrific in France. The two things are just not simple to solve, and that means that we have doubled the penalties in this area, and I think that is a really important step, both in terms of punishing those involved and having them locked up, but also in terms of saying that this is completely unacceptable. So the doubling of penalties is very important to me. Then there are some other tools on how to get around it, and there I think the rapporteur will play this in the context of those negotiations, and then we will have to have a discussion on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102239	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102241	I think that it is to stick the tail between the Minister's legs, and I think that it is to impose a very, very high risk on teachers of proper education. What about the day of sport or the day of movement, or whatever it is called, that is, in primary school? There you have been able to pull yourself together to say that here we are making one day available, just as in the case of Operation Daywork I am well aware that people are not forced to attend it has allowed all high schools to take this day out for a special thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102318	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102319	This is the last thing that is at the heart of Danish school history. They are certainly also allowed to make theme days, both about the Muhammad crisis and everything that follows before and after. That is exactly what the Danish school tradition is all about, namely that you are absolutely allowed to do so. What is the problem here is that it does not provide any protection against the teachers, and that is the problem we are trying to deal with, namely how we prevent the state from deciding what is taught, because it is contrary to the Danish school tradition, and at the same time it can provide the necessary protection for the teachers. It's pretty complex to have to solve, and we've started by doubling the penalties compared to those who commit this kind of crime. That does not bring us to the end, and that is why we are putting forward the other negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102403	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102405	Thank you. All due respect, Minister, I really believe that I was the one who, at our consultations last year, proposed updating school security contingency plans. We repeated it in the spring of the question debate. And, yes, it is very good that this has happened a year later, but that does not bring us to the end, because the veto of the perpetrator has continued. What we have also discussed all the way through is, of course, the responsibility for politically lifting responsibility away from teachers, so that as a teacher one can feel comforted that the teaching material that the state has designed can be used and used in teaching. And I just have to say that some of the figures that we brought up on the consultation a year ago were figures from, for example. DR News, which had conducted a study among 583 teachers in social sciences, where 75 replied that they were a little concerned about their safety, and 43 replied that they were very concerned about their own safety. We have countless examples of this. I find it sad that the Minister does not really want to take responsibility away from teachers, and that is why my question is actually focused on that part: why?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102518	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102519	Well, I get a little the same feeling as I had with Conservatives' rapporteur, who mentioned it there with words being put in the mouth about some things. In other words, if we did not think there was a problem and if the government thought we had objectives, why on earth should we call for negotiations both in the field of justice and, indeed, in my area. I understand from this debate that there are some blue parties who have some idea that the rest of us should not also think there is a problem. Actually, we think there's a problem. That is why we have taken the initiatives we have taken over the last year, and that is why we are continuing the negotiations under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice and together on the school, but I understand from what is being said that the blue parties want to own this agenda in a way that we other people must not under any circumstances think there is a problem. I think there's a huge problem. And I think it is a huge problem and a huge dilemma to find the balance between the consideration of the Danish school tradition on the one hand and the ability to tackle this particular challenge on the other, and where, of course, as a society, we must also be able to be behind teachers politically and nationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102624	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102625	But if anyone puts words in his mouth, it is the Minister who says that this will break with the freedom of method and freedom of speech for teachers, and that is simply wrong, because this motion for a resolution does not make this compulsory. What this is about is that the minister, the government, the community, the state must take responsibility so that it is not the individual teacher who is responsible. And no, this is not an agenda that we are trying to patent. It was two years ago that Samuel Paty was beheaded on the open street in France for showing the French caricature drawings. I see that the SF has taken ownership of the discussion, and I also hope that we can do this broadly politically instead of digging ditches, which is what the Minister is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102705	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102706	Well, I think it's being produced again as if you have a patent to think there's a problem. Now it is we who have taken the initiative to double the penalty, and it is also we who have taken the initiative to make the various steps we have taken. It is just to say that I think it is all of us who say that because I do not hear any parties saying that there is a problem. That is why I think that instead of turning it into a fight over who has a patent to think that there is a problem. I think that we should do something about it together, and that is precisely why we have put forward the negotiations we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102742	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102744	The Minister said that teachers must always adapt the teaching to the student group they have. That is absolutely right, and it is so obvious the right way to go to teaching. But aren't we at risk here that it's just gonna be the kind of pussy you're hiding under? Because does the Minister acknowledge with the statement that there are indeed teachers who, for the sake of the pupil group and perhaps the parent group in particular, choose not to teach in the Muhammad crisis? Because that's what's at the heart of it. The other is such more surface and floppy. So does the Minister recognise a teacher's right to perhaps out of just misunderstood consideration for the student group and the parent group not to teach in the Muhammad crisis ^ and perhaps also other things? What about lggbt rights, women's sexual emancipation, evolution biology and other things? So where is the limit from the fact that consideration for the student group and the parent group does not teach quite fundamental conditions such as the Muhammad crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102837	That is exactly what is at the heart of the problem. I recognise exactly that presentation of the problem. That's exactly what the problem is. The problem, then, is that we have a desire that there is a freedom of method. And when a situation arises globally, where you as a teacher in small Denmark suddenly risk being threatened with life to teach certain things, then it clashes with our usual freedom of education. That is why we need to find a new balance in those things, because it must not be the case that you can hide behind something or that you do not dare. It should never be the case that a teacher is afraid to go to work and is also afraid to teach certain themes. You have to be able to teach them in the Danish primary school. So the question is not whether to do so, but how to get there without kids having centuries of traditions of freedom of education. So I actually believe that this is a very precise statement from the rapporteur in relation to what is the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102933	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210102934	So I actually lack the conclusion a little bit. Because if we agree on the analysis, what is the conclusion? Is it really necessary to give up saying that for the benefit of the student group and the parent group, we do not want to teach the Muhammad crisis? Can the Minister imagine any situation anywhere in Denmark where it may be legitimate to opt out of teaching the Muhammad crisis because of the student group and the parent group? For then the next question must be: What other things must be rejected? The second is that the Muhammad crisis is, after all, sticking out as something special in relation to other things taught. Well, then why hide during 9/11?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103012	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103013	I would say that this is a long discussion, because we actually have the same thing with exactly lgbt, where there are some free schools who have taught some rather special material. So it is true that this is not the only point where we have this discussion. I would like to say something about the conclusion. In other words, it was said that the rapporteur lacks the conclusion. I believe that crime must be punished much harder than this. That's why we've chosen to double the penalty in this area. It's just not the only tool, so I don't think we're in the finish line. But it's just to say that it's true that all the conclusions, that is, to conclude on every part, are missing, but we've started to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103051	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we can start the rapporteur's round. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103105	Thank you for that, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution here. This isn't the first time we've been discussing these things, but this is what we do and we always have to be careful to discuss the size of problems, both a social problem and a very specific problem for some teachers. I think it is a social challenge if, as the Conservative rapporteur also suggested in an earlier issue, we end up in a situation where there is something in our society that is important but which is taboo. Of course, we have to deal with how we discuss things that are taboo, and also in a way that helps us solve it and not just hit each other in the head. Nevertheless, it is important that we, as a society, can do this. It is also clear that, although it is by no means all teachers who experience this, it is not only debilitating for their professional activities, but also dangerous for their lives and health, for the individual teachers who experience the problems. Of course, we need to discuss very seriously what we are doing about it, and we need to state clearly that, of course, we will not accept the perpetrator's veto, that we will not accept that it is okay to threaten or, for that matter, to violence against teachers or to do similar things on the basis of something they have done in a completely legitimate educational situation or in a completely legitimate pursuit of informing pupils of important social events and important social debates. That is why we must make it clear that we are rejecting all extremists and using violence and threats. That is why, as the Minister also mentions, we must intervene with the tough tools that we have in the area of the Minister of Justice, such as: to punish harder, but we also have to say clearly that it is, of course, also an authority task to protect teachers. It is not the case that because you have the schedules and these I have to return to so that you know how to behave, the security has become, if I may say so, the teacher's own problem. It is, after all, a task for the authorities; it is a task for society to protect the civil servants, the citizens who are in the country. What has been bothered here to use a little Jutlandic expression, and which is really, really difficult, is what we are doing about identifying when, as Mr. Karsten Hønge mentioned it, perhaps out of misunderstood consideration for a student group, bypassing some subjects, or when, because one is afraid to receive a threat, one bypasses something. That is why, of course, we have to go and that is what the government, the minister and the governing bodies have also started to say: how are we going to deal with these difficult situations? How to prepare controversial issues? What is the situation if you experience threats? How do you scoff at the fact that we are going to a place where threats could come because there are students or student groups who are radicalised? Of course, we must do all that. But it is clear that it would also be a veto for the perpetrator to decide whether or not to make the threats if, by acting outside the standards of democracy and beyond the social standards that we accept, they would actually force us to do violence on, for example, the freedom of method. I agree with Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby that it does not say here that it should be taught, and that is why it is not a question of dictating what teachers should do. However, I am in doubt as to whether the self-censorship or the problem are effectively eliminated by the fact that there is some material. And what do you do if you're the teacher who says: I want to use this material, but I really think there's something missing from it? After all, you are only exposed if you say: I do something a little different from what is available. In addition, there is, of course, and fortunately, the educational material developed about it here, and this is obviously necessary. I have to look at the clock to conclude, and the Minister has, of course, explained the position on the whole resolution, but I think that one of the most important things I want to say here is that when we have a problem which is so difficult and so crucial and which fills so much for the teachers it affects and when, for the first time in 10-15 years, we have actually established a well-functioning cooperation with the school partners, it will also be obvious to discuss this issue with them before we conclude. It is not because we should not conclude, but we must do so before we conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103631	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103634	I hardly know where to start; there are so many contradictions in what the rapporteur says, because the rapporteur agrees with Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby that this does not mean imposing anything. This isn't going to affect the freedom of method at all. I myself am a school teacher, and I think it is rather paradoxical that the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, the Social Democratic Party, who led the most intrusive school reform ever, who goes right into the classroom to dictate how teachers should teach, then stands and is so afraid of this. I simply cannot understand how this can be done. But what I can conclude now is that the Social Democratic Party would like to take precautions in relation to when the damage has been done, but they will not help prevent the damage from happening. Because that is what the rapporteur and the Minister are saying. The emergency plans have been updated, the penalty has been lifted, compared to when the damage has been done, but what about the teachers who are standing out there? Aren't they the ones we have to protect? Are they not the ones we need to ensure that they do not happen to be subjected to a horrific attack like what we saw in France?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103740	Thank you. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103742	Yes, and it is true that something must also be done in relation to when you get into the situation • how to deal with the specific threats. But yes, something must also be done to prevent and prevent us from getting into this situation. In fact, part of it is: how do you teach these controversial subjects? That is also a way of prejudging it. However, if we are to be completely honest with each other, none of us believe that Christiansborg can solve this with a snap, and that is why it is also relevant to discuss it with precisely the managers, the municipal councillors, the teachers who stand in the rooms, in those areas. Because we must also be honest and say that there are some areas in the country where this is a bigger problem than others. How do we discuss with them what they think it actually takes? It is then to take them seriously rather than to say that if we just adopt a resolution in here, it will work out. I'm afraid it's not that simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103848	Thank you. Mette Thiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103849	No, you could easily create a combination where you voted for this and then the discussion that has been talked about afterwards took place. Now I'm kind of one of them myself, which is what this is all about, so I'm a schoolteacher myself, and I just have to say that when you ask about it, we can hear how, for example. Claus Hjortdal, the head of the school, spoke when this was up. He just thought that schoolteachers shouldn't show these drawings. There was a clear position there. And I just don't think that's okay. I mean, these schoolteachers are the ones who stand on the front line, and I just have to say that I find it so disappointing that the Social Democracy, which otherwise looks up very much on Thank you for that! ) that they will just solve the problems...
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103931	Yes, please! Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210103934	But I would like to say that I disagree with Claus Hjortdal in the view that one should not. But it is all the more important that we discuss it with each other, because we can say that, from in here, speaking of the discussion we have had over the last ten years in the school field, if we try to pull something over someone's head or choose a solution that is perceived as illegitimate, then there is too little chance that it will make a difference at all. And yes, I disagree with the head of the school on that very point.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104012	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104013	I am a high school teacher myself, and I think that the freedom of method in education is extremely important, but I just can't see why these proposals should challenge the freedom of method. They may be able to do so if they are designed in a particularly unsavory way, but there is no reason to do so, so I would like to ask the rapporteur something: is the freedom of method being challenged by the teachers of week 6, by Operation Daywork, by School Exercise Day and by Newspaper Week in high school? These are all times when special subjects are being taught. Is this a challenge to teachers' freedom of method?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104058	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104059	It's all of them, you can say, things where it's planned that you voluntarily decide what you're doing, and that's why I don't think and I don't actually hear anyone say that we have to dictate how to teach this. What we're discussing is how we can somehow strengthen the teacher's entrance to this, without just moving the problem somewhere where the fact that you have a template that you don't follow is going to be the big problem. That's what I think we should discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104139	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104141	And that is what we are doing, and there I simply cannot see that there is any reasonable argument against doing another form of School Exercise Day, which could then be called the school's integration debate or foreign policy debate, where we are talking about the Mohammed crisis, because it is a very special area which makes it too dangerous to let individual teachers do it separately. So let it be a national muhammed day when you talk about the Muhammad crisis at the same time at every school. You don't necessarily have to dictate it, but you can facilitate it so that you allow all schools to join.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104218	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104219	With all due respect to the rapporteur, because it was not because I thought we were not discussing this, but these discussions are, of course, some that we should have with the school partners. Regardless of how and how it is clear that we also have a legal requirement for movement in primary school, but half of the schools do not live up to it, and that is a very good example of the fact that it has not been done with us standing in here saying something, because we have to ensure it really. We risk here that if we do it from in here, the half that doesn't get it implemented is exactly the half that needed it most.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104255	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104257	I am glad, then, that the Socialist rapporteur, unlike the Minister, has now stood up and said quite plainly that this does not violate the freedom of method for teachers. Then we can hope that, in the rest of this discussion, we will be able to deal specifically with the proposal: what we are doing to ensure our teachers better and what we are doing about the veto of the perpetrator. Now the rapporteur says that we should ask them what this is about. If you take the article from Berlingske here in September, where they have just spoken to one of the teachers in the primary school who has shown the Muslim drawings, then we can see that she says, quote: "It could have spared me too much" - that is, if you introduced such courses, it sounds from the teacher who was on sick leave with stress after barely a year ago and told that she taught primary school pupils in the Muslim drawings. • The quote on the following page continues: • My colleagues reacted very strongly to the fact that I came forward. They feared that the school would become a terrorist target and all sorts of things. It has all developed into something that can best be characterised as adult bullying. So if we ask them, they are asking for what we are proposing today, then why are the Socialists not going to listen to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104407	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104408	In other words, there is evidence that there is a real problem at the actual school in the actual teacher's room, and of course we have to take that discussion. I have some doubts about what exactly should have saved the teacher. Because unless, and this is where it becomes interesting, we are actually forcing them to do so, there will still be an accusation that you do not have to use it, and that is why the discussion about whether this is mandatory or not is important and where it is true that you do not put it up to here. But that also means that you do not take responsibility away, because you still have to choose to teach it, and you still have to choose how to teach it. Whether you have a model, you have to choose whether it is right or wrong and whether it needs to be adapted to your student group or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104511	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104512	Unfortunately, I don't think we'll ever get to grips with this fear. I think that is also clear from the many recent debates we have had on this subject. This isn't something that's solved with a fingertips. This is, of course, a question of what we can take of initiatives that will ensure better safety for teachers, that there will be an understanding that freedom of expression is not under discussion. That is why I have to say that I find it disappointing that the Social Democrats choose to say that this is about a specific school and a specific teacher's room. This is about a social problem in which we have a political responsibility, and I hope that during the debate on this motion for a resolution the Socialists will also take part in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104548	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104550	But with all due respect: I started my speech by saying that this is a social problem, and I also said that I believe that many teachers are experiencing this problem. What I saw also said is that, unfortunately, this is a bigger problem in some schools than in others, and these are the places where we have to deal with it. Then the rapporteur says, and I am actually pleased about that, and he acknowledges that this is not, firstly, something we solve with a finger-tip, and, secondly, we will probably never get rid of fear. Surely our goal must be to eliminate fear altogether. But the fact is, we don't make that easy by talking in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104631	Thank you. Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104634	I was just about to say that now it was actually less polemical than when we had the Minister up, but I still think that the rapporteur here eventually became a little bit polemical. I think that what many of the rapporteurs in the Chamber are wondering is how one can say, on the one hand, that one cares about teachers' freedom of speech and that it should be safe to be able to teach and teachers should be able to teach all subjects, including those that are difficult, when on the other hand one knows that there are no teaching materials about the Muhammad crisis and that one obviously does not want it in the history canon, although it is one of the most important formative periods in Denmark's recent political history. At the same time, over the last year, little has been done but the Minister for Justice has made a sanction, while the Minister's own area has made thematic days. So what is it that should make the whole circle of members of the Folketing believe that now the Social Democracy is actually coming in and wants to ensure real solutions that contribute to addressing the issues that are out there with the violent veto?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104740	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104742	It will be no less polemical for the Conservative rapporteur to repeat the falsehoods or distortions that were also said to the Minister. There are a lot of elements in this, and no, it is not just theme days, but yes, it is actually important to have that discussion in the teacher's room, because the story referred to by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby is an example of the fact that when you have a teacher in a classroom who chooses to do it here and then experiences what Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby called adult bullying, you also have a cultural problem in the teacher's room, and we have to discuss that with each other and with the leaders and with the municipal councillors who are responsible for the schools: what do we do about it? This cannot be taken away from anyone with all due respect, because the adult bullying does not disappear because we in the Folketing have stood and said something. It disappears from having another culture in the teacher's room, where it is also perceived by a large group of teachers, and preferably so large that it is tone-setting, as being entirely legitimate, that one must of course teach the Muhammad crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104848	Mai Mercado, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104849	Speaking of the deception of this: it is not Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby's words; it is the teacher's own words. The teacher himself calls it adult bullying in the article. It is not Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby's words. After all, it will be a discussion that the Social Democratic Party basically sees no reason to have that teaching material produced. John Rydahl, chairman of the Christianity teachers, said in a debate here last year: it is of no use that you ask us to take the lead and that we bring the deep plate into the classroom; we need some educational material that we can lean on and that makes teaching legitimate. And then I just ask quite calmly: why doesn't one want to do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104930	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210104931	I would like to start by regretting if I said that it was Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby's words. In fact, I thought that the teacher that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby referred to had a point. The history of that teacher shows the problem in that classroom if you cannot stand up without being exposed to what the rapporteur and the teacher themselves referred to as adult bullying. So it is just to say that it was not intended to make it Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby's experience. That is the reality of some teachers' rooms, and we have to discuss that, but we also have to discuss with the teachers' association how we deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105008	Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105009	Well, the government wants to update the contingency plans and increase the penalties for threats. That's good, but isn't it like starting at the wrong end of the events? When there are contingency plans on the table and you have to do something about the threats, it has already gone completely wrong. So shouldn't we start at the other end, where we make it legitimate to teach this course so that we don't get to where we need the contingency plans? I think I kind of miss hearing how Mr. Jens Joel believes that we can support the fact that this significant incident course is actually being taught in connection with the Mohammed drawings instead of referring to where it could go completely wrong. So what can we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105054	I therefore agree with the rapporteur of the SF that what we are doing with punishment, contingency plans and many of the other things is an expression of the fact that it has already gone off the rails. I also think, again with reference to what the rapporteur of the Left put forward, that that story and the history of that teacher show that in some classrooms and some schools there is a culture that may give self-censorship, but which may also give a peer pressure. We cannot attack this if we do not also want to talk to the teachers and leaders responsible for the cultural change we need. But that's a yes if it is, sir. Karsten Hønge refers to the fact that we must dare say so from in here. Now I said today, and I am happy to say that I disagree with the head of the school that this should be banned from teaching. I do not think that is the right way to go. I think we should have the courage to say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105155	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105158	I also fully acknowledge Mr. Jens Joel's point is that this is not something we can do anything about with this resolution, so change that culture completely. It cannot be done with a fingertips, as the rapporteur says. It is quite obvious that this is a massive challenge that we face, which basically concerns the culture of a teacher's room, for example, when a colleague dares to do something like this. So we agree with that. But what can be done if we do not adopt this resolution? However, the Socialists simply end up at the starting point, pointing only to contingency plans and tightening the penalty for threats and here from the platform an indication that they are being supported. But what else can you do?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105235	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105237	I do not agree that all the things that are like being referred to that have been done are all some ultimately solutions. So, some of the things that are also being done and about which we have also been in dialogue with the schools since the discussion we had a year ago are about: how do we scoff, if you may say so, about those groups of pupils or parents? How do we take it in the bud? What, moreover, is one's attitude as a teacher of a controversial educational course? How do you prepare the students and their parents for this to come? But we also need to talk to the people it is about to get an estimate of what they are experiencing as the barrier.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105318	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We can then move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Left, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105341	Thank you for the floor. Je suis Samuel Paty so I also started the speech when we had the question debate on the same subject in the spring. Those were words that sounded all over France on 16 November 2020, when the teacher Samuel Paty was brutally killed, beheaded on open street because he had shown drawings of the Prophet Muhammad in his teaching. That discussion and history has been repeated several times both in consultation and in question debates and discussions in this Chamber. And it is important, and it is not just localized to be about France. We have examples of teachers of youth education in Denmark, who are under PET's protection, on the basis that they appeared after they had taught the Mohammed drawings. I myself read out just now from a teacher in the Danish primary school who is on sick leave with stress and who, as a commentary on the proposal on why central teaching material should be produced, as we have proposed with the resolution we are debating today, said that it could have spared him too much. And why is that so important? This is of course important because every time we have taken this debate, it has been about how we take responsibility away from the individual teacher. How do we ensure that we recognise that this is a social problem which is, after all, about freedom of expression under pressure? This is about the fact that teachers' freedom of education is under pressure in many places, not only when we talk about the Mohammed drawings, but also in a number of other areas. That is something we cannot accept, and that is why this debate today is a matter of principle, and that is why I think it is a pity that we are once again seeing an attempt actually being made to dig ditches and trivialise rather than being united in shouldering responsibility. I am pleased to hear that after the question debate that we had in the spring, the Minister has now updated the school security emergency plans, because then we can sort that part out. But that in no way brings us to our goal. If we look at the Muhammad drawings, they and the whole Muhammad crisis as a formative period are landmarks for recent Danish history, and therefore this is not just about some drawings. It is about Denmark's location in the world. It is about our foreign policy, it is about freedom of expression, and it is also about freedom of education for our teachers around the Danish educational institutions. Of course, they should not be left with a fear that makes them reluctant and that makes them self-censorship and dare not show, for example. The Mohammed drawings or even just dare to teach topics such as the Muhammad crisis because they fear reprisals. It's no use. It is useless in a democratic society, and that is why we must also take on the part of the responsibility that we can assume in here. That doesn't mean we just solve the problems with a fingertips. None of us have pretended. But it's about having the teachers' back cover, as they've also asked for. So this is a boyhood of freedom of method in schools? No, it is not, because we should not lift a freedom so as to kid another freedom which is fundamental and fundamental to the way we view Danish society. That is why this is not a dispute with the freedom of method, but it is a struggle for freedom of expression and also for teachers' freedom of education. I very much agreed with the SF President, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, who, in connection with the SF annual meeting in September, also said as an answer whether this was really achieved or whether it was not also risked that a minority had their religious feelings in place. And there she replied: "We cut slices of our freedom by constantly having the discussion about whether we may one or the other. I therefore very much welcome the fact that, in connection with the SF's national meeting, the Chairman of the SF said so clearly that SF agreed that national teaching materials should be prepared in this area. The SF also agreed with this a year ago, and I hope that it will then mean that we can now move one step further in terms of precisely cementing that this is not a debate with political colours, but that this is a debate on which we are politically united to safeguard the safety of teachers, their freedom of education and their freedom of expression and the fundamental democratic values on which our society is founded. That is why I also hope that we can get a good deal of treatment for the resolution we have tabled, so that we can also show that we take responsibility for preserving and fighting for freedom of expression and education in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105857	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105902	Now that the rapporteur of the Left says about this teaching material, that it is not necessarily something to be used, if you may say so, and when the rapporteur has referred in the past to a culture in some jobs where it is difficult to see that there is a teaching material to solve it, my simple question is actually whether the rapporteur does not think it is wise that we are actually discussing this with the parties involved in the school together before we conclude what the solution might be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210105941	Yes, I always think we should discuss this here, and also with the school partners, and that is why the Left also took the initiative at a meeting where Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen as President of the Left, myself and a number of our players participated together with the teachers of the primary school, the teachers of the secondary school, the managers in the same areas, the Education Association • a large number of actors, all of whom are relevant to the school. We took the initiative last autumn when this debate started. And yes, it is good that the Minister brought it up on Monday's school together and now wants to put it on the agenda, but that could have been done a long time ago. Because, of course, we need this dialogue, and we do, and this resolution is in no way contrary to having this dialogue. This motion for a resolution follows on from the discussion we have had in the last year, which is about the political responsibility also to ensure that teachers actually have freedom of education and freedom of expression without having to fear for their safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210110042	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210110044	In other words, does the rapporteur know, strictly speaking, whether this is contrary to the dialogue we have with the school partners when we have not had it yet? Is this the meeting that the rapporteur had with Mr Seligman? Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and some representatives from the school world who mean that? I just think that this should be about finding the right way into it, because it is true, as the rapporteur says, that there was openness to discuss it with the parties in the school together, but there was also a clear indication that they do not believe that the solution is that we are taking control of it, so why is it already concluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210110124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210110126	Nobody here is suggesting that we take control. I am just saying that if the Minister had wanted to have a dialogue and also call for negotiations on it, it would have had over a year to do so now. We have had a party political meeting, also at the highest level, with our party chairman and us who are rapporteurs in the relevant areas, because we think it is important to involve the parties. Does it then deprive us of a political responsibility to draw conclusions as well? No, it doesn't. And I read earlier some quotes to the rapporteur from a school teacher, who is exactly one of those who is standing out there, a school teacher who is sick with stress because she just did not feel that we also lifted our political responsibilities. That is what the resolution is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210110207	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210110227	Thank you for the floor. I am a high school teacher myself, and I taught until I was elected to the Danish Parliament 10 years ago, in social studies and religion in high school, and I return there after the next parliamentary elections, where I hope I will teach social studies, religion and history. I have taught many times in the Muhammad crisis, especially in social sciences, where we had about integration and cultural clash; it was, of course, a perfectly natural part of the teaching that one dealt with the biggest cultural clash we have had in recent Danish history, between Christian and Islamic culture. And, of course, I have also taught the Muhammad crisis when we had about international relations in social sciences at A level. It was a natural part of the teaching, and I had no problem with that at the time. Time has changed, ten years have passed, and I see that today there are problems. We have had the terrible incident with Samuel Paty, who was beheaded for teaching the Muhammad crisis and showing the Muhammed images. And we have had the story of Jannie Bøgh, who has several times already been referred to a primary school teacher who taught the Muhammad crisis and showed the Mohammed drawings and because of it was frozen out of her workplace because the other teachers felt insecure and felt that she had made them a terrorist target. And these are some situations that we simply should not experience, because of course students need to know something about the Muhammad crisis. Of course they must know about it, and of course they must also have seen the pictures of the Mohammed drawings. So we have a real problem with the teachers turning themselves and the school into targets if they have this task all alone. That is why it is necessary to encourage everyone to do so. After all, the terrorists cannot manage to cut the heads of all social science teachers, history teachers or religious teachers in Denmark. And that is why, as I said, the practical solution is to make it easier on the political side to teach it. I think it is very easy to solve it in a practical way by making a theme day. Then it can be said that it should not be compulsory, but that you can sign up for it and get some material, just as it is with the school's exercise day, just as with week 6, just as with Operation Daywork, just as with the newspaper week in high schools. In other words, it is possible to do some national actions in which schools are given the opportunity to do something that makes it possible to spread the risk, which means that there is not a single teacher who is facing the problem of being subjected to violence because the only one has been taught in the Mohammed crisis. That is why, of course, I think it is a pity that the government is not going to do anything. And I think that we should at least call for talks with the school partners and get concrete practical suggestions as to what the schools can do. This is a guess, and I think it's a really good guess. But I also think that if the government does not have the power to vote in favour of this because it comes from the opposition, it could simply call for the talks and take the proposals that come forward seriously and get something done about it. Because I would very much like it to be okay when I go out and teach after the next election unless, of course, some people think it would be nice to get rid of some opposition politicians. But after all, I don't think anyone would have such evil thoughts. However, it cannot be right that one should risk one's own health in order to give the students a reasonable education. It is simply completely unreasonable and it is a problem that needs to be resolved. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210110643	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210110701	More than a year ago, French schoolteacher Samuel Paty was brutally killed after work because he had taught the Muhammad drawings at his school in Paris. Fortunately, in Denmark we have not experienced murders, but violent threats and widespread fear among teachers. And we have this situation because there are forces in both Denmark and elsewhere that are ready to kill because of a drawing; because there are people for whom their religious feelings take precedence over others' lives and our common democracy. We cannot do this, even though these questions are guaranteed to trigger strong feelings in many people. But it is unthinkable that the Muhammad crisis, its background, its violent reactions and its consequences should not be an essential element in, for example, the situation. history teaching or social science teaching. The SF has already recommended teaching one for them, yes, for the whole West as important historical events. I understand very well the fears and concerns of the teachers. The problem is, of course, that teachers today face some challenges every day, not just in relation to the Muhammad crisis, but in relation to a number of issues when different cultures meet. It may be the holocaust, it may be the equality of women, it may be the sexual liberation, it may be thelgbt+ issues, it may be the genocide in Armenia, it may be the Israel-Palestine conflict, it may be evolution biology and certainly also a number of other cases. But it is the Muhammad crisis that placed Denmark in the middle of a focal point. That is why our proposal has been central to the production of a material containing, among other things, professional professionals. the primary sources, i.e. Jyllands-Posten's drawings and accompanying articles are then made available to our schoolteachers in the schools. We have also said that we will not require, either by the individual teacher or by the individual school, that it is a requirement to use that particular material. But we want to ensure that there is a place where teachers can access all the relevant material without having to be actively seeking out and with the back cover, that although there may be colleagues who disagree, it is both legitimate and relevant to teach and that this is the position of the Folketing. It is also a way of guaranteeing freedom of education. We do not want to dictate the specific material. There is still freedom of education and of method, and we fully respect that. However, relevant material with the primary sources shall be available. We also note that there are teachers today who actually teach the Muhammad crisis, but that they may encounter problems with both colleagues and other teachers. However, we must support teachers, even when they want to use primary sources. We just have to say that this is not going away, either the terror or the threats of violence. So much more is the need to teach all children on which pillars our democracy rests and that we have to disagree in a proper way; that freedom of religion is guaranteed in Denmark, but that one is not above democracy, freedom of the press or freedom of expression or is exempt from something just because one disagrees or dislikes it because of one's faith. In fact, the problem goes back at least to the Rushdie affair, to the Muhammed crisis, to the terrorist attack at the Krudtønde and to the attack on Charlie Hebdo in Paris. And it was then reactuated with a Taliban video recently after the takeover in Afghanistan, where blasphemy in Denmark was the subject. The teaching must be done in a way that makes our students smarter and not to cause division. Of course, neither harassing nor stepping on religious feelings nor offending anyone is the aim. But it must be a nuanced and indispensable feature of general education that it is okay to disagree in a civilised way. After all, fear has taken its place in our society, and we cannot conjure it away or relax the principles of the pillars that underpin our democracy, including freedom of the press and freedom of expression. Specifically, we recommend from the SF that in practice we put the assessment of the relevant material in the hands of Together about the school and encourage them to make a move on how the material with the most important sources and events can be contained in it. In this way, we give a clear order and direction from the political groups, but leave it to the professional players who have to put up with it in practice to present a bid for the final cut in relation to the relevance of the many individual sources. And then we have to discuss it from there. For us it is important, in these words, that together the school be involved in the concrete work and that it remains voluntary for the individual teacher and individual school, if and to what extent the material will be used. And with those words, I can say that the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111215	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111221	Thank you for that to the SF rapporteur, and thank you for your support for the motion for a resolution. I fully agree with the rapporteur that it would be wise to involve the school community, and I also replied to the Socialist rapporteur. But I do not think it can be discussed that this should be done, because I have also seen good things, for example. The reaction of the Danish Teachers' Association to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's speech was that it was not necessary, and I therefore fully agree with the rapporteur that it is of course important that there are both primary sources and that material be produced to ensure freedom. However, it is not for discussion that it should be prepared. But I would really like to ask the SF's rapporteur something. The SF's rapporteur also said it in relation to history teaching, and I actually noticed that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said it in relation to history teaching back in September that it was also essential to have it there. I would therefore just like to ask the SF rapporteur whether the SF rapporteur considers this to be an informative period in our history.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111331	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111335	This is something we can call an informative period with a little fine words. If there is anything that defines the time we are in now, it is precisely the events and circumstances surrounding the Muhammad crisis, because it contains so many elements, ranging from freedom of expression to freedom of education, to the fact that fear has entered our society and also entered our classrooms. So it is certainly a crisis, and it is a crisis that has been one of the biggest since World War II for Denmark, and it is incomprehensible that in some places it is still not important enough to teach it unless one comes to the conclusion that it is because one does not dare. Then you may say so, because you may not even dare to say that you dare, because then it starts a major debate, and then it is better to fly under the radar and not teach it. One cannot help teaching the Muhammad crisis if one wants to give a picture of Denmark's position after World War II. It is a huge crisis and that is why, of course, it is something that needs to be taught. However, I think that we should find a way of doing so in such a way that those who need to use the material have also been involved in the process of providing it. I think that's only natural.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111434	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111437	Thank you for that answer. I can say that I fully agree, and I am glad that the SF also signals today, with such a clear statement, that this is not just a party political matter, as the Minister tried to do, that this has simply been about positioning, but that instead we have a common political responsibility to take responsibility away from the teachers' shoulders and to assume the responsibility for ensuring that freedom of expression and freedom of education are precisely intact out there. So I guess that was more of a comment than a question. Thanks for the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111509	This shows precisely that with such fundamental things, which are about the pillars of our democracy, we can agree across the middle of politics. Then we have so different ways in which we think it should be dealt with, and there we can see a difference, but we agree on this resolution. But I can hear from today's debate that there are members of parliament or parties who, if I may say so, have got these dice on their brains and quite overly now believe that it should be shoved down the throats of all sorts of themes and everything else that I may not think makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111546	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111554	No, what we are talking about today is precisely this motion for a resolution, and I just want to say thank you very much to the SF for sticking to it. I was just so pleased when I heard Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's speech at the annual meeting, and I am so glad that the SF's rapporteur is following up today, and I would just like to say thank you for that, also on behalf of all the teachers who stand out there every day and who are quite at the forefront of this extremely important cultural struggle, for which it is to ensure that we in Denmark of course have freedom of education, that we have freedom of expression and that there are no issues that we cannot touch on. So thank you very much to the SF. Again, it was just a comment, but thank you very much for sticking to your words and for voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111642	But the SF cannot come to any other conclusion at all. It is, as I see it, a completely integrated part of the history, the tradition of which I myself and of which my party are a part, namely the rebellion against authorities, the rebellion against those people who are trying to restrict freedom, the right to religious criticism. This is the core of left-wing tradition. So it is quite obvious that SF should end up with this view, that of course we do not allow ourselves to be cowed by people blinded by religious darkness do not think that we in Denmark should be allowed to teach in the Muhammad crisis. The fight for freedom, the fight against authoritarian tendencies and religious criticism are at the heart of the left-wing tradition.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111733	Thank you. Lotte Rod, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111742	What is SF's attitude about there being a history cannon?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111746	We've never been a fan of guns. We can now see, after they have worked for a period, that they seem to be our conclusion on it seems to be working okay. This is not our invention, and we have been very critical of them all the time. But with the way they're actually handled, it looks like it's pretty much okay. What we come to a conclusion at least is that when we have and it makes no sense, if you have a history cannon, then you do not have the Muhammad crisis with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111824	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111827	But what has led the SF to change its attitude, so that it now wants to oblige teachers to teach something particular?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111838	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we fully respect the freedom of method and the freedom of education out there. But that's because you can't take the Muhammad crisis and then pretend it's like everything else. It is also I mentioned some other issues where I also think it is important that we stand firm. There we must stand firm on the theory of evolution in Denmark. We do not allow ourselves to be influenced by the fact that people may think that women's liberation is something overly advertised modern. Those are some things we stand firm on. But the Muhammad crisis is a very special period.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111916	Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111921	I would just like to say thank you for this and make a comment rather than a question. Now, of course, we had the question debate here last spring, and there we produced a text for adoption which was voted on and which was not a majority for then, but subsequently we reworded it to this resolution, and then we can see that there is a majority for it. So, in fact, just thank you for giving this very precise expression in the autumn and saying that now they would like to back up the fact that you got these courses and were ready for it to really happen. So I guess it's just a big thank you from here, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210111952	Well, I just want to say that one thing that is important is that we support the resolution, but what is much more important is that we support all the teachers out there who are in the front line. They are the ones who need support, and from this they must also hear from the SF: We support you. When you think it is relevant to teach the Muhammad crisis, it would be completely impossible to reach other conclusions. Of course you must teach it, and you who choose to do so, despite the fact that you may be criticized by colleagues, despite the fact that the leaders in the schools may not back you up, we support the Folketing. That's right: you have to teach the Muhammad crisis, whether you choose to use the drawings or not, and whatever material you choose to use in this teaching. You'll find out for yourself. And you have the support of the Folketing and society. So, of course, a period as crucial as that of the Muhammad crisis in Denmark will not be avoided, and one should not hide under the fact that it will surely be possible to put it under something else when one talks about the terrorist attacks in New York on 11 September. This is an independent challenge, this is what brought Denmark into hotspots, and this is what needs to be taught.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112048	Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112055	I fully share the rapporteur's concern that teachers expose themselves to self-censorship and that some teachers may experience threats and harassment. We should do what we can to prevent and shield teachers from doing so. But I would like to hear: when the SF now votes in favour of this proposal, is it because it is SF's view that it is a matter for parliament to decide exactly what historical themes should be taught in primary school? Does the SF generally believe that we are now about to have votes in this Chamber on what historical themes should be included in the cannon?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112138	No, that is certainly not SF's view. But the interesting thing here is that it seems as if Mr. Jakob Silverhøj believes you can be high above it and hover over it and pretend that we do not have a very special situation with the Mohammed crisis. In that case, the Enhedslisten lives at least in a parallel society. For the Muhammad crisis is a very special period, which expresses some very special conflicts with a number of subsequent events, and one simply cannot understand the Danish society if one does not go in and discuss and teach in the Muhammad crisis it makes no sense at all. SF couldn't dream of either going in and telling which teacher should do at which school compared to the Muhammad crisis. What we are going to do with this motion for a resolution is to provide the teachers with material so that it can be easily and uncomplicatedly accessed, thereby expressing the support of society for the teachers who want to teach it and use that material. The Mohammed crisis constitutes a very special period which brought Denmark into the world's focal point and to claim that it is just a subject in line with all sorts of others we might decide to vote on is detached from reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112239	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112242	I am not saying at all that it is not an important theme. I just ask quite quietly whether it really is SF's view that we in the Folketing should decide what themes the cannon should contain. Or am I now hearing that the Folketing should never do so, except in this particular case, because we believe that we will take a parliamentary decision on what the cannon should contain?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112307	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112309	I think it would be of great benefit to the debate if Mr. Jakob Silverhøj and Enhedslisten would relate specifically to what is to be discussed here, instead of seeing here again just trying with what I believe in modern Danish is called whataboutism, where you say: What about that or that? This is a way to avoid taking a stand. This is about the fact that in schools we have a widespread fear of teaching this and that we are even experiencing the murder of people who teach it abroad. That makes this something very special. And then we actually see an attack on the very fundamentals of Danish democracy, namely freedom of expression and the fact that teachers must feel confident in teaching what is relevant. This cannot be avoided by means of all sorts of whataboutism, where one asks: What about everything else? We don't want the SF to go in and decide what to teach, and we want to involve the teachers in the preparation of this material. But the Muhammad crisis is something special.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112352	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no more brief comments. The next to be welcomed is the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112408	Thank you. I think students should be taught in the Muhammed crisis. I think it is unacceptable for teachers to be threatened. This is totally unacceptable. We all agree on that. That is why it is not today's debate. The discussion is: How do we deal with this? How do we conduct politics? Should such proposals come from teachers or should they be imposed by politicians? In the Radical Left, we work to set the school free. We want more room for the teachers' judgment, and we are against canonists. After all, this is a classic political discussion. For years civil politicians have wanted to decide what to teach. You have made cannons, and we have just received a new proposal from the Liberal Alliance, which will introduce national curriculum lists. We in the Radical Left think this is wrong. We do not think this is the way to make policy. We think that politicians have one task, and then there is something else that is the teacher's job and what is taught, we should not determine politically. That is why we continue to oppose the cannon lists. I can tell that I have to chew on the fact that SF has moved in that discussion, because we are actually usually good allies in trying to combat the political governance that lies in the cannon lists, and I hope that SF will come back to it and consider it one more time. I have been back looking at what Mrs Marianne Jelved said last time we had this discussion, and I actually want to quote some of what she said at the time: 'Teachers' freedom of speech is, of course, absolutely crucial for a teacher, and it is even a teacher who has a very, very important and crucial importance for the individual child and for the students that they teach. I don't think anyone's doubting that's right. It is the teacher's pedagogical and psychological abilities and experiences that are at stake in many contexts. You can use a picture of the solid and experienced teacher surrounded by a kind of patina of calm and experience and security in the eyes of the students and in their experience and hopefully also in the eyes of the parents. It is important that the teacher, together with parents, creates the security of the students needed for a good education. In my opinion, the teacher must be able to take up matters that characterise society and which are events that make a real impression on people and create new images, if I may say so, new insights in our society about what looks like and what happens. The Mohammed crisis is a fantastic example of this. After all, it is not just a French matter or a Danish matter; it is a world issue and it requires both critical thinking and freedom of expression and is one of the most controversial issues that we have had in school for a number of years. That's because it separates the waters very clearly. There are those who are strongly opposed and there are those who can see that this gives us experience that we need to relate to. So it is part of the education that students acquire on the way to becoming citizens and citizens and can take a stand on events in society and in public and can distinguish between good and evil. And they must also be able to relate to what is happening in society, and they must be able to take a position. I have been sitting here in the debate thinking that one could also suggest to the Minister quite quietly and without making great palaves out of it to gather a number of thoughtful, experienced teachers and let them answer to, I had almost said the task, what really needs to be done before one can teach in a safe and good way on controversial issues. With that, I can say that the Radical Left is opposed to the motion for a resolution. I take the view that if we are to go down this road, it must come from teachers, and not because it is imposed by politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112807	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. The first one I would like to give the floor to is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112814	Thank you. In view of the fact that the Radical Left was a governing party when a targeted legislative action was taken against teachers and subsequently more than 3,000 binding targets were introduced into primary school, it is a little paradoxical to hear the radical rapporteur stand and talk about the radicals always being the guarantor of the freedom of method in primary school. In other words, there has never been anything as method-binding as the far more than 3 000 objectives that the Radical Left helped to introduce when you sat in government. So I would really just like to ask the radical rapporteur because I think that the radical rapporteur completely avoids dealing with what the resolution is really about: ensuring freedom of education, freedom of expression and the freedom of method for teachers out there, and that today there are teachers who exercise self-censorship for various reasons, such as Mr. Karsten Hønge also said " because you are afraid to teach and use your freedom of speech and education. " I just want to know if it doesn't include the Radical Left at all, that this is the case in many schools in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112919	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210112921	Yes, it does, and that is why I started my speech by saying that it is totally unacceptable that there are teachers being threatened. But we have political disagreements on how to achieve the goal, because in the Radical Left we do not share the bourgeois view that we should manage schools with cannon lists. I think that's a bad idea. That is why I would just like to say to the first thing that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby says: I think it is wrong for us to introduce the narrow objectives of education. I didn't see what that would lead to back then. Now we have seen it, and that is why we are also taking the lead in wanting to clean it up and, radically, I want us to get rid of the whole target management that is at school.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113005	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113007	Well, it's nice that the recognition and recognition comes after you made a legislative action that basically put the school, the Danish primary school, back 10 years when it comes to cooperation, to focus on the purpose and to have made more than 3,000 binding goals. In all respect, perhaps 20 seconds out of five minutes' speaking time, the radical rapporteur spent focusing on what today's debate is really about: the safety of teachers and the freedom of education, freedom of expression and freedom of method. I would just like to ask the Radical Left if we do not recognise at all that there is political responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113050	Here you go to the radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113053	Yes, I think there is, and I think it is very important that we send a signal from in here that we want, of course, to be taught the Muhammad crisis. But when I spend so much time talking about how we conduct politics, it's because that's what divides. So, what we disagree about today, and the reason why the Radical Left is against this resolution, is, of course, that you want to oblige schools to teach something certain by putting it into the cannon lists. And basically, I'm against that way of running the school.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113125	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113129	No, SF is not a fan of cannon. Yes, SF believes that we should involve together about the school to produce this teaching material. Otherwise, I saw Mrs Lotte Rod's rapporteur's speech as a long display of escape routes and jumping actions, or what I believe in modern Jutland is called whataboutism, because it is always all sorts of other things that are at stake than what we are actually discussing, and that is why I would like to ask Mrs Lotte Rod, so that we have a chance to get on the trail of what is on the agenda, namely: does the Radical Left recognise that the Mohammed crisis is a very special period in Danish history? Does the Radical Left recognize that there is widespread fear among teachers when it comes to teaching this theme? And does the Radical Left believe that it is okay for teachers to opt out of teaching the Muhammad crisis on the grounds that it may offend the student group or the parent group?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113223	Yes and no. But does the SF recognise that it should come from the teachers, rather than that it is the SF together with the bourgeois politicians who want to impose it on the teachers?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113235	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113238	The thing is, it actually comes from the teachers. Fear comes from the teachers. That is what we need to be sensitive to here. We hear massively that teachers do not have a natural way of teaching it. The Radical Left will leave it to the individual teacher to take these decisions with the risk of disunity in the teacher's room that it is not possible to find out with the management what is going on. So this is from the teachers, we hear it, and that is what we also want to see. But what is interesting is whether one should sit back and wait for teachers to come with that teaching material? Why don't we do it together about school? The point is, does the Radical Left think that it should be taught?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113310	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113314	Yes, the Radical Left believes that it should be taught. But if the SF has the view that it has to be done together about the School, why do you vote for this resolution? Then why don't you take it up together about school? I think it's something weird that the SF wants to put things into the history cannon. I think that if we are to open the story cannon, and there can be quite good reason for that, there have also been other criticisms of the history cannon, among other things. That there are virtually no women in that • then it has to be after a general discussion in a professional environment. It should not be because we in the Folketing are tabling a motion for a resolution which puts one thing into the history canon.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113350	Then I would like to give the floor to Mai Mercado of the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113355	I think it is fresh to criticise SF, because the SF does exactly that, that they allow action to follow their position, whereas the radical approach is just that kind of classic, that you keep your eyes open, and then you hope that something passes over, and that it is probably just that kind of political signal. But that's not enough, and this just comes from the teachers. This comes from John Rydahl, president of the Religion Teachers' Association, who already said last year in connection with the murder of Samuel Paty: you have to create legitimacy by drawing up teaching material. But radicals do not want that because they believe that it violates the principle of freedom of method, which is completely incomprehensible to me, and at the same time they do not want to update that canon of history in the reform of primary schools which is, in fact, part of it and in which there is a history cannon. So can't Mrs Lotte Rod just say again why you don't want to update the story canon when you're part of the public school circle, and why you can't see that when the teachers go out and say that you have to make teaching material, then we should facilitate it from Christiansborg's side?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113503	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113506	I do not mean at all what the Conservative rapporteur says. I think it is a good idea for there to be educational material. I know something already exists, and it may well be that it needs to be further developed and expanded. It may also well be that it has to be part of the history cannon. What I have something against is that, in my speech, I spend so much time talking about how we are politicians and what I am therefore voting against today is that you bourgeois politicians together with the SF with a motion for a resolution in the Folketing are now going to impose this on the schools. It's the totally reversed process. In everything else that we're doing in here with together about the school, we're trying to find solutions together, and that means that if we're going down this road, we in the Radical Left think it's going to grow out of the partnership together about the school.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113552	Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113555	This is a rather strange discussion, because if you say that you can easily see that teaching material has to be made centrally, and you can easily see that the history canon has to be updated. That is what this proposal is about. I would just like to say that it is not because we impose it on the schools, but we require the government to produce the material that any teacher can then retrieve, if you like. It's not something you should do, it's something you can do if you feel that you get an extra security and an extra security by using material that comes centrally from.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113627	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113630	In a sense, the question put by the Conservative rapporteur merely confirms my view that we really do need to discuss with each other, what we are doing politics and what that is to be done as politicians in the future. I think that for years we politicians, myself including myself, and that is why it is also particularly important to me that we are going to conduct politics in a different way. We have made far too many rules and regulations of the school and set too many goals, and I think it would be good for us to be able to get to where we came to conduct politics in a way where we let things grow from below, instead of coming here in the Chamber and making a motion for a resolution and requiring teachers to teach something particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113717	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113721	Now I can say the same thing as has actually been said, and as I have also said to the Socialist rapporteur in the past: that is to say, it is a little paradoxical that it comes from the Radical Left, who, as a starting point, always thinks that they know better than everyone else and who has helped to adopt this completely failed school reform, which is precisely imposing a great deal on schools, so that you then come out with some punks that you want to set schools free, but you really just move bureaucracy from one box to another. What you have said is not to set schools free. Well, let's be honest about that. It is a step in the right direction and it is a good thing that we are now really recognising the need to go that way, but that is not what is happening with your proposals de facto. But it's just such a side comment on it. There is something I simply cannot understand. There is nowhere in this motion for a resolution that we are imposing this on schools. What the rapporteur is saying simply makes no sense. I think it is so good that we now have a majority in favour of this, so that you can help the teachers who are standing out there in front of this because of a misguided immigration policy for decades. Why would the Radical Left not want that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113830	I would very much like to take a debate on freedom with New Citizens, for it is then to set free to have been inside and abolish the existing national tests, look at student plans, look at the quality reports. And what is the next step for me is to set schools free from the common goals and also from the long school days, so that they are shorter. That's freedom. On the part of the Radical Left, we would also like to give schools free from canon lists, because we think it is wrong that politicians, civil politicians, would in this way oblige schools to teach something particular. And if New Citizens don't think it's imposing something on schools, then it may be that you will also help to give freedom from the cannon lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113912	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113914	We want to give freedom from virtually anything other than precisely the canon lists or what we call a national curriculum, because of course there is something better than any other knowledge. And it is so striking that in all other respects the Radical Left believes that they know best, but obviously there should be nothing here. So I would very much like to enter into that discussion. I think we have a very different view of what it means to set schools free, but I would very much like to take that one day with the rapporteur. But I just have to ask it again, because the rapporteur must acknowledge that it is perhaps a little difficult when you come from the Radical Left that there has been a policy of aliens which means that we are in the situation today, where teachers are on the front line with this cultural struggle: why will the Radical Left not help the teachers, support them and send a clear signal by preparing some courses they can use?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210113956	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114000	But I do not think it is helpful to put it on the canon lists, that is to say that it is the Folketing that makes a resolution and thus will drag it down over the heads of the teachers. I think the right way into this is for teachers to go through together about school.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114016	Thank you. The last person to sign up for a brief remark is Mrs Marie Krarup from DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114022	So when the teachers raise it, the Radical Left will do it. I think that is wonderful, and I look forward to it, because they will, as there is a real security problem. And when you say that you are generally against cannonists, I think it is a little bit hollow. Does this mean that the Radical Left will be working to remove week 6, where one teaches special themes, the high schools newspaper week, where one teaches media, Operation Daywork, where one teaches foreign aid, and the school exercise day, where one teaches races, sports, gymnastics? I assume that the Radical Left will work hard to get rid of it. But the Radical Left will not work to ensure that individual teachers are given a higher level of safety. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114113	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114115	But that cannot be compared, because it is not imposed on schools. In fact, we have exactly the opposite discussion: that the students out there are screaming for more sex education, because it is not bound, but only in these hourless subjects, and there is a big difference in how much one is taught. So in reality it can be said that Marie Krarup shows the problem of sex education more than it can be a parallel to imposing more.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114144	Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114146	I think that is completely wrong, because what you are doing is allowing schools to do this, to facilitate it from the centre. And what we have to do to be able to teach in the Muhammad crisis is to do some educational courses which are then available, and then we may call for them to be used on a national theme day, as is the case with schools' exercise. But it's just grotesque to say that you're against cannon when there's already some kind of cannon. It's just not called a cannon. This simply means that, from the central point of view, we have allowed schools to teach certain things at certain times.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114224	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114226	Well, I guess Marie Krarup's idea can be fine. The principle for me is that it should come from the teachers. In other words, it is not acceptable that it should be politicians in this Chamber who want to impose it in a motion for a resolution. That's what I'm against. So if we're going to continue working on the idea, it has to be because it's being raised by the teachers in Together about the school.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114249	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. There are no more brief comments. We shall then welcome the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten. Here you go, sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114300	Thank you. We believe in the Enhedslisten that it is important that there is a secure security and crisis response both at the country's primary schools and at other educational institutions. Students, parents, teachers and other employees must be able to be confident about everyday life at school, and therefore there must be constant attention to the need to review the guidance to the educational institutions so that they are useful in the training institutions' work on prevention and crisis response. Of course, we expect the Minister and the Ministry to take care of this, and we have heard that today. In order to ensure the safety of the teacher, it must also be legitimate and natural to be able to carry out the teaching of controversial subjects. It could be training in the Muhammad crisis. These could also be other controversial issues. In our view, it is part of the school's educational task that it should prepare pupils for participation in a society of freedom and democracy, and this naturally includes the pupils having to understand that there are many different ways of looking at the world, accepting that others can have views that they do not necessarily like, and that we must deal with differences through dialogue and, of course, never expose others to harassment, threats or similar behaviour. The teacher must, of course, be able to include controversial issues in their education, of which the students and their parents can have very different views, without experiencing any unpleasantness. Therefore, it is important in this context that teachers experience in everyday life that they both have the necessary support from their school management, so that they are shielded from unpleasantness and do not feel pressured into self-censorship, but also that they experience that at each educational establishment there are general rules and guidelines ensuring that there is a security of education. We think it is extremely important in this discussion, and it has already been mentioned by many, that the security that we need to create is the way we need to monitor the teacher in close dialogue with the teachers and in close dialogue with the school leaders. That is why I think it is very good that the Minister, together with the school, has already raised the issue and will continue the discussion with the school partners. We think this is extremely wise. And I would like to say that in this context I may not find that the desire for dialogue is equally strong among everyone in the House, because it is a little odd if we say that it is really important that there should be such a dialogue, but at the same time say that, regardless of how the dialogue is going, we nevertheless believe what is in the proposal here, namely that it should be part of the cannon and so on. Dialogue is of course best if you have the approach that it can move something. In other words, dialogue is best if it does not take place between people who have decided in advance what they will think when the dialogue has been completed. Otherwise, it is not dialogue at all, so it is just an exchange of views. There may be a lot that separates us from this discussion. I guess it's no secret. There may be many things that divide us in view of how things are to be handled. But I really think it would be wise to gather together to see that we have a common view that it is really important to create the necessary security and that we have a common view that it is totally unacceptable if teachers cannot teach on issues that some of the pupils or their parents are opposed to. We simply do not want that. However, when we have the common approach to the problem, and when we have the common approach, that dialogue is needed, I think we should let the Minister conduct that dialogue with the school partners and then discuss the matter further once that dialogue has been spent. That's how I hear there's a majority in the Folketing who doesn't want it. I think that's a shame, and I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114736	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114741	Yes, but it has to be done in close dialogue with the teachers; it is obviously one of the ways to go when we have to prepare the material that is clear. We can do that within the framework of the School Together. It's quite obvious. What I'd like to ask, sir. Jakob Silverhøj about, is: Can the Enhedslisten imagine that with such a dialogue one will arrive at a failure to teach the Muhammad crisis? I mean, could you imagine? If I just assume at first that one could not imagine and one should teach it, how will Enhedslisten make it safe and natural that one actually teaches the Muhammed crisis? Or are we over there where it is, like, just a subject among others, or do we not have a very special role to play in the Mohammed crisis? When it is over 15 years since we had the Muhammad crisis and there is still no secure framework for it, and there are still no educational material available on it, how do we proceed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114832	This discussion is about a lot of things. It's obvious. But it is also about where the boundaries lie between legislation and the rules that we lay down, and then the freedom that is with teachers. I am not opposed to rules; on the contrary, I am in favour of rules. It would be strange to have the school set free, where we said: Take up the subjects that you think are sensible. It is obvious that there must be rules. Where we have a resistance is in relation to the whole cannon system that is built. It must have worked for 15 to 20 years, and we are opposed to it, and we have always opposed it. And I wonder why others suddenly, i.e. that SF now thinks it is really important that the Folketing in the part of the national rules that is made should not only decide which subjects should be, but the Folketing must also decide what to teach. We think it's unwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114928	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210114931	Well, it's preposterous here that Mr. Jakob Silverhøj can speak of freedom among teachers in this context, where teachers are just exposed to the opposite, that is, pressure not to teach it, and that there is widespread fear among teachers to teach it. And then Jacob stands high silver, and speaks of freedom for the teachers. After all, teachers do not have the freedom today because they do not dare to teach it in a number of schools. That is the challenge, and that is why we need to address it. I have always believed that the fight for freedom, the fight against authority and religious criticism is part of being left-wing, for as I can just quote: Religion criticism is the basis of all social criticism - K. Marx.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115006	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115009	That's right. I myself have practiced a number of religious criticism in my time, and religious fundamentalism is not exactly what appeals most to me or to the Enhedslisten. But that is not what we are talking about here. We are talking about what rules we must lay down and where the freedom of teachers should be. I am just saying that if you want to give the teachers as much attention as I understand the questioner does, it was natural that you had the dialogue with the teachers' organisations and were in dialogue with them on how best to do it. We think that should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115045	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115051	Thank you. I fully agree with the SF rapporteur that it is not true that the resolution we have before us in any way imposes something on schools or imposes anything on teachers. It may be that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur will show us where in the text it says, because that is not what it says. It imposes it on the government It should have happened a long time ago because we have had this discussion for over a year now. I just have to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur because the Enhedslisten is usually such a party that says that if there are market failures, they have to be corrected. Now we've been discussing this for a year, and it's not like the publishers have been lining up to make material. They probably do not have that for the same reasons that we are talking about here, namely the fear of reprisals, security and other things. It should therefore be a matter for Enhedslisten, with the ideological basis that Enhedslisten has, to correct for the fact that self-censorship means that schools and teachers really do not have the freedom because the material is not present.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115159	Thank you. Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115205	I myself rarely talk so much about correcting market errors. I guess it's more worried that too many things are being market-driven. But there is, of course, in this proposal that it appears that the government is required to include the Muhammed crisis as a formal period in the history canon. I understand that this probably does not mean that every school must teach it. But I have understood the thinking about the cannon in such a way that one really thought it was good that what is in the cannon was taught, because otherwise it doesn't really matter what is in it. This brings teachers into quite considerable cross-pressure because, on the one hand, they are under pressure from pupils and parents who are quite unfairly harassing them in one way or another if they do not teach this, and, on the other hand, they want political pressure from teachers to teach this in any case with the devil's violence and power. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115306	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115309	No, this proposal does not impose anything on teachers. This guarantees teachers' freedom of expression, freedom of education and freedom of method. That is precisely why it requires the government to take action after we have been discussing this for a year now, because otherwise it will end up being teachers who will be squeezed into this cross-pressure that the rapporteur himself refers to. I would just like to ask the rapporteur, a little like the SF rapporteur asked the radical rapporteur: does the Enhedslisten think it is relevant to teach the Muhammad crisis because it sounds almost as if Enhedslisten does not think it is relevant to teach in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115344	Sir. Jakob Silver mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115347	Yes, I think it would be natural. I agree that some people attach greater importance to it than others, but the Muhammad crisis was incredibly intense in Danish society. It's been filling up a lot since. There are some that create insecurity for in their everyday life. Well, it certainly has a meaning. Again, I would like to say to the cannon: if it does not matter what it says, if it does not provide any kind of guidance on what teachers should teach, then it would probably be a good idea for us to abolish it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115416	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. There are no more brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party that we should welcome. Here you go, Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115441	Thank you. And also thank you for a good debate where the waves have gone high. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very concerned about ensuring freedom of speech in the classroom. It is important for us that there should be a fight with the violent veto, because no teacher should be pressured, through threats of violence, to refrain from teaching certain subjects. It has to be said that this is not going away, either extremism or threats of violence, and that is why it is also necessary to deal with the cross-pressure that teachers are exposed to. It is a debate that has been going on for a very long time. It actually started last year with the murder of Samuel Paty. Then we had first a consultation, then we had a question and now we have a resolution. And not much has happened in the intervening period. At last year's consultation, we said in a group of citizens: we have to ensure that there is some qualified teaching material. And then I remember the Minister saying: 'Well, we are not teaching in the EEC.' I think that was a little surprised by many, because most people do not fear reprisals from EU opponents when walking on the open street. That remark at the time was quite strange for a part of us, because what is quite true about the Muhammad crisis is an increasing concern on the part of teachers to teach a subject that is sensitive and that many have a fear of touching a subject that is so challenged now that, if we do not do something active, it will become a taboo, that is, something we cannot discuss at all. And I had hoped that in this debate we would have gained a greater recognition from both the Social Democrats, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, but I must say that I think, on the other hand, that the SF has really had some good arguments and understood the full extent of the problem. For example, when it is said by the Radicals that it must come from the teachers, I have to say that this actually comes from the teachers. Because the fact that we have tabled a motion for a resolution and that we have had a question debate and a consultation on the teaching materials is something that just came from Mr. John Rydahl, chairman of Christianity teachers. It was in P1 Debate out in DR City last year, where I stood and argued that we should include the Muhammad crisis in the history canon we have today, which contains both topics such as September 11 and World War II, and one has to say that in recent Danish history the Muhammad crisis is landmark. And he quite rightly said that where to start is in classrooms where it will give legitimacy and support to teachers if they have a teaching material that they can use. It'll give them back cover and a back cover that they don't have today. That is why this is also a very important resolution. I would actually say that it is landmark that we have this debate because there is a majority, and that means that now there is going to be a change for all our teachers out there. It is very good and very good that, as the Minister said, the security contingency plans have been updated, but the security contingency plans are, of course, in relation to the fact that there has been an incident when you are there, so we have to ensure that we also prevent. The next step will be to make what is touching about plain and legitimate education. It's making it uncommonly common. It can be done in several different ways, but a good place to start is simply to ensure that teaching material is prepared from a central point of view that any teacher can use if they want to use it in their teaching. Conservatives themselves have been involved in the adoption of the question debate, which is why we also have a large share in today's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115852	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. And then I do not see other rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, so we must therefore welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals. It is the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, Mrs Mette Thiesen, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210115913	The French schoolteacher Samuel Paty died for freedom of speech. He had his throat cut because he wanted to teach his students something very, very important, namely that freedom of expression is absolute. If you cannot draw the Prophet Muhammad, then there is no real freedom of expression. In the Danish primary school, the defence of freedom of expression is far too weak. Unfortunately there is too much concern, and the chairman of the School Leader Association in Denmark, Claus Hjortdal, wrote in Jyllands-Posten, when we last had this debate, that Danish schoolteachers should simply refrain from using satirical drawings of the Prophet Muhammad in teaching. He did not propose this on the basis of the real danger involved. No, he advises against offending Muslim students. It's just for the cotton. We have been able to read several stories about courageous teachers who refuse to submit to Islam. They insist that freedom of expression in Denmark must trump the wounded feelings of the Muslims and the courageous teachers go beyond completely undermining Hjortdal. With an absurd argument, he fabled in an interview in Berlingske that it would be necessary to demonstrate freeness of speech, and thereby he is also shown that he does not understand either in liberalism or in primary school. For the primary school must be the place for Danish children and teachers meet in open debate. This is how we decide our differences here in Denmark, not with violence. But not least Muslim students must learn that, because where else would they learn about freedom of expression? If Danish schoolteachers correct in, it will only teach our children that freedom of expression can be graduated, and thus the primary school will help to promote extremism in society. That is why it is important for us to reject the fear of touch that Claus Hjortdal, for example, is showing. Folkeskole must never become tolerant of the intolerant. Freeness is exactly the opposite of unselected tolerance. Freeness is about letting opinions meet in an open and critical debate, and it is precisely the school's job to transform the classroom into the room where such a conversation can take place. It's obviously something Hjortdal doesn't understand. In addition, I would like to express my full support again from this platform for the courageous teachers who use the drawings. Because they are in the first ranks of the great cultural struggle of the time, but they should not stand alone. Islam must have no influence, either in our classrooms or in our society. And today we have jointly tabled this motion for a resolution in the blue block as one by one is the motion for a resolution, No. V 79, which we almost got a majority for on 4 March 2021. And I am simply so pleased that the Socialist People's Party stands by what Pia Olsen Dyhr said in his annual meeting, and as Mr. Jacob Mark has previously indicated that this is important. It is important that we draw up materials from in here; it is important that we take a political responsibility to ensure that teachers are not alone out there in the front line. Then we can talk about why we've come here. In new citizens we want to solve immigration policy from scratch, because that is also part of solving this problem, which has been created by decades of misguided immigration policy. Here we stand today and adopt something that is at least a majority in favour of what it looks like right now, which means that teachers are not alone in the fight for freedom of expression. I think it is quite big, and when I heard Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's annual meeting, I hastened to table this as a motion for a resolution in collaboration with the rest of the blue bloc. And I could also see what was said about it, for example. Mr. Jacob Mark. Now we are here today, and now a majority is drawing up to help the teachers in this important fight. So I just want to say a thousand thanks to all of you who have been involved in tabling the motion for a resolution and to the SF, which also supports it. It is a great day for freedom of expression, it is a great day for democracy, it is a great day for Danish school teachers. It just is, so thank you very much for that. And it has to be the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210120417	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then it is the case that a very, very short break is just needed. We keep it so that people can go to the bathroom, because it's the same people who sit here who will be there. We'll take a break in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210121610	We'll resume the meeting. Negotiations are open. And first, we must welcome the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210121634	Thank you. It's very tall. There has been a very high rapporteur up before me, so I have to get that down, like that! First of all, thank you for presenting the motion for a resolution. It is, of course, similar in many ways to the motion for a resolution, B 26, by the Liberal Alliance, which we first dealt with in the Parliamentary Chamber yesterday. That is why I also think that the rapporteur already knows my priorities in relation to private care services, on the one hand, in relation to self-serving institutions and day-care institutions and day-care. But, of course, I'd like to repeat it. Today it is the case that parents have the opportunity to apply for a financial free space allowance if they have their child enrolled in a municipal or self-owned or outsourced day-care institution, a private institution or a municipal or private day-care service. So here it is extremely important to stick to this: it is not a discussion between private and public, because you can actually get free space grants, whether it is a private or a public offer. What you can't get free space for is for the private pass. With this motion for a resolution, the Left will then introduce a right for parents who have the child in a private care scheme not to be self-employed institutions, not those mentioned etc. Of course, it will be used to reduce parental payments. This would mean that, according to the Left, it would create increased competition in the day-to-day supply sector and help promote free choice and allow parents to choose the best offer they think is best. I would like to make it quite clear that what I think is the challenge here is that there is no quality requirement for private care provision. In other words, I think that there is a limit to what we should spend the state's money on and what we should increase the incentive for. I very much appreciate the fact that there are many different forms of care, including private ones, and I also believe that free space should be provided for this, but not when we talk about those that are not subject to the same quality standards. That is why we are not prepared to go down that road. That is what I said yesterday, too, because we in Denmark have a strong tradition of high-quality day offers and with skilled and otherwise trained educational staff, whether municipal or private, and I think we should safeguard that. I must admit that I think that both the resolution today and yesterday from the Liberal Alliance totally underestimate the professional skills of the teaching staff. For good intentions and a willingness to help are not always enough, and when children have to have their everyday life in an offer, quality must be in order and, as I said, there are no quality standards in relation to private care, and that is why I do not think we should go down this road. When private care is offered to parents, it is because there is a political majority for them, but I would like to say that for the government it is therefore more important to prioritise funds to support the quality of daily services, whether they are private or public. That is why we support the way around, not the private services. Just to give some concrete examples, the private care systems today do not have to draw up educational curricula, just as parents do not have a legislative right to influence the scheme. And, as I mentioned yesterday, we have recently dealt with legislative proposals on the introduction of minimum standards in day-to-day institutions and, as part of the political agreement, a total of 1.8 billion is added. kr. to our children from 2024 onwards, and a separate agreement has been reached on the training of the teaching staff. Then it is important for me to stress that parents can always choose to have their children cared for in a day-to-day service where there is an opportunity to receive a financial free space allowance. That is to say, it is not the case that parents should be prevented from finding a day-to-day offer where they have the opportunity to have free space. You can always do that. And then I would like to stress that more private offers are offered in the day-to-day area, where there is the possibility of • and it is, after all, the continuation of the financial free space allowance. Parents can then choose to have their children cared for in a self-serving day-care institution, i.e. a private day-care institution, where both the self-serving and the private institution require a pedagogical curriculum, which means that there is a quality requirement and there is a requirement that parents have an influence on the offer. I think that yesterday's discussion was marked by the fact that some people would very much like it to be a public-private discussion, and that is why I repeat these things: it is not a public-private discussion. This is a discussion between quality requirements against non-quality standards. Therefore, we have no desire from the government to go further along that path in relation to the need to follow state crowns to something where there are no quality requirements. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122145	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122151	Thank you. I probably did not expect that either, because basically we have seen that the Socialist Government is doing everything possible to actually break down the freedom of choice in the field of children, both with the initiatives that lie there, in order to reduce the conditions for private people to pass through, but also with the private institutions as a whole. So I guess it won't come as a surprise. However, I have a few questions for the Minister, because the Minister says that there are no quality standards, and no, but there is supervision. In other words, there is, of course, a very clear supervisory obligation in relation to checking whether private people pass up to the standards to be expected, and otherwise they can be closed down. That is one thing, and I would just like to know if the Minister can confirm that. The second is, of course, whether the Minister, if the quality is not high enough, believes that the parents would choose it? That is the second question. And the third question to the Minister is really about social equality, because the Minister usually says that it should not be the case that only the rich can afford free elections. But the situation we have today is precisely that families with a small economy cannot send their children to a private fit. Does the Minister think that's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122259	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122300	It is absolutely true that there is supervision, so I would like to confirm that. That was the first part of the question. But I am actually puzzled, because it was under the bourgeois government that the curriculum, that is, the educational curriculum, was introduced in the day-to-day offers. If you thought it was completely indifferent, then it's strange that you think it here. Well, why did it be introduced if it doesn't matter? That is to say, yes, there is supervision, but when the former bourgeois government, with our support, created an educational curriculum, it is because there is a quality standard, and we believe that all children deserve it, and that is why we do not want an increased incentive to choose the incredibly few offers where there is not this quality standard. We are clearly not doing that. Moreover, I believe that it was the Social Democrats who invented the free kindergartens, that is, what was the predecessor of what are today the self-serving institutions. So I have a great passion that there is free choice in this area, but not so free choice that there is no quality standard. Well, I've been trying to run from Herod to Pilate myself to find out where my kids were going to be written up in day care. I think it is very good that there is such a bottom in relation to having a guarantee that there is, after all, some quality standard as a starting point for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122408	Thank you. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122409	Yes, and fortunately this is also the case, and the Minister has just confirmed this. After all, the minister knows what lies in the supervision that exists today, and also that in some places the requirements of supervision are also based on a parallelity with what lies in the strengthened teaching plan, which is, of course, a strengthened teaching plan based on the teaching plan which followed and which very many private people pass by, although they are not legally obliged to do so. However, my question was actually how the Minister can continue to defend the social inequality that is emerging in that families with a low economy do not have the same free choice for their children as other families, because the freeways do not follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122449	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122450	Well I don't see it as an offer to be able to get some care that doesn't have the same quality standard as other; I just have to say that. In other words, it has not grown in our backyard, it is an opportunity at all, as the rapporteur knows. So, this is what the majority in the Folketing is for: that there are private care systems. We find it deeply, deeply worrying that there are no same quality standards. So, in relation to this thing about making it sound like it's a welfare good that there is a kind of care where there are no quality standards, I would say that I do not think so. And it is the case that there is actually a possibility that, regardless of your income, because you can get free space allowances, you can choose private institutions, so this is not a discussion between public and private.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122532	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122545	Thank you for that and thank you to the Left for tabling the motion for a resolution. Following on from the discussion that has just taken place with the Minister, it is important to say, because the Social Democrats have the opportunity to have a free space, so that if you have limited financial resources, you have the opportunity to have your child cared for under a free space system. It is, in fact, also a positive thing for the children's area that there are not only municipal day care centres or municipal day care providers, but also that there are very private institutions that can offer parents or children something other than what municipal day care or kindergarten around the corner might do. That is why, basically, we think it is very healthy that we have a diversity of institutions and therefore also a degree of freedom of choice. The self-serving institutions, such as my own children, are subject to the municipal location reference or have an operating agreement with the municipality and are thus, like part of the distribution, one can say, part of the location reference that takes place from the central point of view. But there are also private institutions that are completely outside that system. This is the system that we have chosen to strengthen overall with the agreement on minimum standards, in other words that our institutions can create a better framework for the lives of our children, and that is the economic priority that a new majority in the Folketing has fortunately made, and there has been a great deal of funding. The motion for a resolution then says that private individuals, who are the only ones who, like those who are outside the quality standards in the area of children, also have to offer free places. I understand the argument that, when they exist, one might ask whether there should not be any possibility of doing so, but I would actually like to maintain that both those who have the means and those who do not have the means already have the opportunity to choose freely and to choose between many different things in the field of children. We do not want to spend our resources, our money on making it more attractive for children to be moved into those offers where there are fewer educational quality standards, so that is why we reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122819	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Here, too, there is a brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122823	Thank you. It is simply because the Social Democratic Party once again confirms that social democracy is not concerned that children coming from low-income families should have the same free choice as children coming from high-income families. Because that is the fact when you do not want to put private people on an equal footing in relation to the free space system. This means, of course, that all the children who come from the families where they have actually been granted a free space do not have the same free choice. I actually think that sounds hollow, in relation to the fact that we usually have to hear that the Social Democrats believe that there should be the same opportunities. But that has been established today. Another thing we can hear is that the Social Democrats believe that private people pass is a poor offer without quality. I would just like to ask what the Socialist rapporteur and the Minister are based on. And does it apply to all private passes in Denmark that the Social Democratic Party believes that these are bad offers to which children should not be referred?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210122925	It must be a pity if you have to do so much violence on what your political opponents say, in order to make your point. No, there is guaranteed plenty of both skilled and well-meaning private pass. What I said wasn't that the private pass is bad. What I said was that there are not the same quality requirements and standards for the private pass. And that is also the answer to the second question. For no, it is not the case that we believe that, if you have no money and therefore have to apply for free space, you should have no free choice. In fact, this is the reason why you can have free space both in the private, in the self-employed and in the public, whatever it is, institutions or, for example, day care providers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123013	Here you go, Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123014	Thank you. We can read the minutes. I am now quite convinced that the Minister clearly said that it was a worse offer and therefore, in fact, my question. Because I really think it is a little thought-provoking, also in view of the fact that many of the private passes are around the country. Many of the private passes are located in rural areas and thus help to create proximity to the care provision because they are located in areas where there is not necessarily a large enough group of children to have public institutions. In the light of this, I would just like to ask once again whether the Social Democrats really believe that it is reasonable that the free space scheme does not apply to the private pass.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123052	Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123054	Is it to be understood that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby believes that there are places where there is simply not a group of children large enough for there to be a day care provider? Well, there isn't such a difference between the number of children, compared to whether it's day carers or private pass, so I think that's a bit of a strawman argument compared to this. However, I would like to say to the heart that yes, you have chosen to set up, you can say, a care system in which private people pass is an expression of the fact that there are those in the child sector who are subject to fewer and less quality requirements in order to ensure it. That is the reason why we do not want it to be the part of the child sector that needs to be strengthened, but the others where there are educational requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123138	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. There are no more brief comments. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, who is from the Left, is right over. Left comes on at the end. Therefore, we welcome Mrs Marie Krarup, DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123207	I had just forgot the changed I would just like to say briefly that we think this is a sensible proposal. We think it makes sense to have free space in both public and private services and in private ones, because we do not see a difference in quality. We think it sounds like a really good idea. When it comes to the proposal for the economy contained in the motion for a resolution, I would like to say that here we may be less able to see whether we can support it because we are referring to the Left's draft budget. It is so little uncertain to me what it really means. But we think that the very basic idea in the motion for a resolution that we should be able to refer to the free places of private passage is sensible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123309	There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123312	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for their support. I would just like to say that, as far as funding is concerned, we do not really expect that there is a very high financial cost to it, because this does not change what it is for a group that has the right to free space. However, it is clear that there may be marginal costs in managing that a free space scheme also has to cover the private pass. It's more to inform you that this proposal doesn't change the group that has the right to a free space and then just to thank you for your support for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123346	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123352	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123353	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments, and then we should welcome the SF rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Ina Strejer-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123356	Thank you. In Denmark we have different types of day care, and that is good because children are different. For us in the SF, it is important that the care services that we offer to our children are of high quality, but the kind of private care that this proposal concerns are not subject to the same quality requirements as our other day offers. This means that in these care services there should not be a similar focus on, among other things. the social and linguistic development of the child, play and learning about nature and senses, the context of the transition to school life and an engaging cooperation with parents. We cannot support a proposal to spend public funds on care services, which we really do not know the quality of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123433	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is also a brief comment here. Here you go, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123438	Thank you. The rapporteur says that there is low quality. In other words, does the rapporteur agree with what the Minister has confirmed, namely that these institutions are being supervised and that supervision is often based on the fact that they have to measure up to what is laid down in the teaching plan? And if the rapporteur agrees with that, why is it that the rapporteur and the SF, who are also used to advocate social equality, are actually opposed to children who come from economically less well-off families being given the opportunity to have the same free choice as everyone else, including being able to choose a private fit if that is what the family considers to be best for the child? After all, the rapporteur started by saying that SF recognises that children are different and may therefore need different offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123523	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123524	I did not say that there is low quality in private care provision. I said that there was not the same quality requirements, so that we are less sure that quality is good. And especially when you come from a exposed family, it is important that the day offer has a high quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123544	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123545	Now it is not always the case that, because you have a low income, you come from a exposed family. If you are a student, you usually also have a free space. It is just to say: we must now be careful that we do not put people in square boxes and set synonyms between having a low income and being exposed. So I am trying to ask again: if the rapporteur agrees that there is also a quality oversight of the private pass, and that there is thus also a certainty in terms of quality, because otherwise the municipality can say that it does not recognise that the offer has the quality it should have, then SF thinks it is reasonable that children coming from families with a low income do not have the same free choice as all other children?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123621	In other words, the fact that there is supervision ensures to some extent that there is some kind of quality. However, there is only a big difference between saying from the outset that we are making some demands on quality and saying that there is supervision in relation to that it would mean ensuring a high quality. I do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123647	Thank you to Mrs Ina Strjer-Schmidt, there are no brief comments left. I would like to thank the rapporteur for her statement before we welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123706	Thank you. For me, as a politician and as a mother, it matters that you can choose between different offers for your child, but yet I am against this proposal from the Left. When I first saw that, I thought: I wonder if there is something wrong, that there are problems with getting free space in a private institution or with the private day carers. And if the problem had been there, I would have supported it, because I think it is really important that you have the opportunity to have free space there, of course, but for me it is something else when it comes to children's carers. That is because in the Radical Left we have a dream that we should have trained staff. We have a concrete proposal in the Radical Left that we should have a plan to train the teaching staff we have in all our day institutions. We would like to add a half-time to the minimum standards so that we can have three out of four adults in our day nurseries and kindergartens being educated educators, and in the same way I would like to have a 10-year plan for our day care so that everyone has the opportunity to become an educational assistant. For me this is the most important battle, and that is why I would rather give priority to the fact that we are actually going to spend money and make greater demands on adults having educational education rather than on the path proposed by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123834	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment here too. Here you go, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123838	Thank you. Now the Radical Left is again showing its true self in the field of children, namely that the Radical Left is not watching over the free choice of children, either with the agreement made with the other Red parties, to close down certain types of private day-to-day services in Denmark and make it more difficult, but not in terms of ensuring that private people can also pass. I actually thought that the Radical Left, which usually pays tribute to the free school tradition, also had the same view when it came to the private sector: that when there is a supervision which is actually checking that you are in line with others, it should also be a guarantee that there could be that diversity in the offer. But the radical rapporteur must have access to some data that we others do not have when the radical rapporteur can stand and say so firmly that the private sector has less education than in the case of others. I would like to ask the radical rapporteur whether the radical rapporteur can just tell us what the radical rapporteur is based on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210123946	No, because you can't turn it around that way. After all, it is a question of what we can demand. I want us to make that demand, and I have put my hand with the Minister on it several times so far, and it is relatively difficult to be allowed to make the demand, because it also comes with a huge demand for the economy, because it is expensive. It costs half a time on top of our minimum standards if only we have to achieve that three out of four adults in our institutions must be trained educators. I would like to go even further than that, but I am saying that it has taken some work to convince my own parliamentary group at all to give priority to so much money and I have not managed to convince the Minister and the government yet. So I see that a 10-year plan is needed to train staff in our institutions, as is the case with day care providers. If we are to succeed in the training of all day care providers, I believe that this is going to be an economic plan, but, of course, a continuing training plan which will last for ten years. The Left can say if the Left can see a model where it is possible to impose training requirements on private children's carers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124048	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124049	After all, the rapporteur is not dealing at all with the proposal. With all due respect, we are also in favour of a high proportion of educators. That is not what we are debating today. We are debating the right for children who come from families with a small income base to also have the right to have a free space with a private fitter. To this the rapporteur replied that there was less education. As far as I am aware, there are a great many private people who are actually higher than the rapporteur's demands at the level of education. That is why I would just like to ask once again whether it is because the Radical Left is in principle opposed to the private pass and against children having the opportunity to have free space, or is it because the rapporteur will not respond to the specific proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124132	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124133	I would not like the rapporteur to say anything about the fact that there is less education. But my question back to the Left must then be: Does the Left want to impose a certain training requirement on private individuals?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124152	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124208	The comments on the motion for a resolution state that it is the Left's wish to create a better basis for free and increased competition in the childcare market. This is the kind of approach we don't share in the Enhedslisten. In fact, we have no desire for increased competition in this area, and we believe that thinking children as a market is an unfortunate approach at all. On the other hand, we want parents to have the opportunity to choose between different care arrangements, i.e. between different daily services to avoid misunderstandings. We think that is very wise, and there are several of them. After all, it is the municipal day care institutions that are the self-serving, there are other private day care institutions, and there is the municipal day care. There is often a perception that there are private day care providers. That's actually not true. This is clear from the legislation, but really there is no one. We think the parents should have that choice. Parents have different preferences. Some think it is really good to send their children to a daycare centre where there are many other children of the same age, others think that the close environment of daycare is that there are not so many children and the possibility of strengthening closeness, relationships and care is preferable. Therefore, it must be possible to choose both. So we want to have the opportunity to choose between different offers. On the other hand, we have no desire to promote the use of private services, because, as several rapporteurs and the Minister have already mentioned, the same quality requirements are not being imposed, and we believe that we owe it to our children, who are left in the care of other people's public funds, to make very high demands on quality. That is why we believe that the offers that should be made to us should provide financial support for • we are already providing support to private carers in general should be of a decent quality. That is why we do not think that further promotion should be given to private carers by providing economic space. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124446	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is also a brief comment here. Here you go, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124450	Thank you. After all, I know that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is usually a great advocate of day care as a whole, and that is why the rapporteur knows the figures for how many municipal day carers have been killed over the last ten years. After all, there has been a halving in the number of children registered with a municipal day care service from approx. 60,000 in 2010 to less than 30,000 at present. That is why the rapporteur also knows that in very many municipalities there is no real free choice between day care and crèche. Therefore, there are also a great many private passes that have arisen as a result of the municipalities having closed the municipal day care. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur: in view of this, because the rapporteur knows the developments, does the rapporteur think it is reasonable that a family with a low income should not have the right to have a free space in the close care of the private carer located in the area? Otherwise, you only have a crèche to choose from if the municipal day care is closed in that area. That is the situation, and I would like to know whether the rapporteur of the Left thinks that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124558	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124559	I think that the legislation we have already has too much to promote the use of private carers for children. I do not think we should do it any further. I share parts of the production in relation to the development of municipal day care, but I think it is worth adding that the very existence of the legislation on private carers has driven that development forward. There has been a very strong tendency that precisely the legislation on private carers has meant the abolition of municipal day carers. The Social Democrat rapporteur said: 'Well, can you imagine that there are some places where there can be no municipal day care?' Without going straight to the Social Democrat rapporteur, I would like to say: yes, you can actually do that, because if you have to make it work, so that there is also the care of children in sickness and vacation and absence, then you actually have to work in teams. Therefore, the fact that private carers have been pushed into the establishment of children's carers has in many places simply undermined the basis for running well-functioning municipal day care.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124704	It was the professional who spoke there maybe not the politician. Here you go, Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124708	Thank you. I believe that the causal link is different from that described by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. However, I fully agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur on the picture that I tried to ask the Socialist rapporteur, namely that there are large parts of the country where there really is no municipal day care anymore. I am glad that Enhedslisten's rapporteur confirms this. That brings us to the essence of why this proposal is important. Because if you want to have real equality, including social equality, in the field of freedom of choice in the field of children, then you also have to relate to the fact that, for children coming from low-income families, in many places today, there is no free choice, because there is nothing to choose from when you cannot take your free place with you to the private pass.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124749	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124750	In other words, the existence of this legislation has meant pushing towards less quality and pushing towards more children being cared for in public funds where there are insufficient quality requirements. There may be quality, but there are not sufficient quality requirements. And we will not solve that by saying: that is why it would be good if we allowed more people to use them. If it were for Enhedslisten and me, we should go the other way and ensure that the childcare services where there are no quality requirements were all offered to go over and become municipal day carers, so that we ensure the quality of the arrangements.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124827	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no more brief comments. Then I welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210124854	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Left for presenting this motion for a resolution on the possibility of free space in private care services, which is not possible under current legislation. The motion for a resolution promotes free choice and gives parents a better choice between private and public care. As I have said before on this platform, perhaps more than ever before we need to talk about the importance of freedom of choice for parents and families. It is no secret that the Red Government, with the support parties, is currently driving a steamroller over the private initiative in the welfare sector and thus over the freedom of choice of families. I'm afraid that steamroller isn't off yet. I understand from the authors that the additional cost of this proposal is extremely limited, as the group which has the right to free space is not expanded. Today they have free space in a municipal institution. However, for the sake of good order, we are going to ask for an assessment of the financial costs of the proposal through a question. However, in the Conservative People's Party, we wholeheartedly support the resolution here, which gives parents freedom of choice to choose the care that suits their child's needs and the family's situation. So the Conservative People's Party supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125029	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There's a brief comment, so here's to Mr. Knox. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125033	Thank you to the rapporteur. A few times we talked about steamrollers across the private initiative and, incidentally, about the children involved in this matter having a free space in a municipal institution, and I would just ask the rapporteur specifically to confirm that it is possible to have a free space in a private institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125054	As it is today with the current legislation, if you create it as an independent private care, you cannot get this free space allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125107	Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125111	What I asked the rapporteur to confirm is that if you have your child in a private institution, you can have free space. That's all I wanted to confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125121	With the legislation we have today, it is not possible to get this free space allowance in relation to a private caring service. That is what the motion for a resolution is all about, namely to correct it so that there will be a real free choice between the private and the public offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125141	It gave rise to a brief remark. Here you go, Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125145	I just wanted to thank you for your support for the Conservative People's Party. Social democracy is, after all, very busy talking about it and talking about it, for example. private kindergartens, but now this resolution is not about the private kindergartens, it is about private people passing through, and there are no free space arrangements today. That is why I would just like to thank the Conservative People's Party for supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125209	Thank you. We think this is a very good proposal, and it offers the possibility of free choice, and it also allows parents to choose precisely the offer that suits their child's needs and the situation of the family. So we warmly support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125225	Then we thank the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the New Citizens' rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125245	Thank you. In New Citizens we pay tribute to the private initiative and we recognise that there is considerable satisfaction and often also more satisfaction with private offers. And we will let the money follow the individual child, so we can of course also support the fact that you can choose a private day care provider, as you called it in the old days, instead of choosing a public or other private offer. So we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125314	Thank you for a brief speech by the rapporteur. That is not a short comment. As there are no more rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125331	Thank you to the Danish People's Party, the New Civil and Conservative Party. In fact, I also believe that the Liberal Alliance is not in the Chamber today, but I have at least understood that, in support of the motion for a resolution. I'm really glad. But it also cements the picture that we know so much in advance, namely that there is a clear dividing line through this Parliament when it comes to ensuring free choice in the field of children. After all, the Social Democracy, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left will not only prevent free elections being extended, but also, in reality, with the agreement they have made, destroying parts of the free choice in the field of children by making it impossible for private kindergartens in the construction that we know today. That's really, really too bad. I also think that today's debate shows that the Radical Left, like the Red parties, has insisted that, unfortunately, there should not be a proper free choice in the area of children. That's too bad. When it has been important for the Left to table the resolution we are debating today, it is about the free choice of all children. We just have to say that when we look at the private services today, it is the case that if you are a family that has a low income base and thus has the right to free space, you do not have the same options. In this way, social inequality in the field of children is even greater by depriving those families of that opportunity. It is not, as the SF rapporteur said, that families have a bad social background. It might as well be a student. It may also be the single mother who does not have enough finances to make it possible. I have met a great many private passes, and I have also visited a number of those who have told the story that when parents break up or divorce, it has had the consequence that it has been necessary to take the children out of the private care provision because one did not have the right to the free space to which one would have the right if the children had gone to a municipal kindergarten. I simply do not think that is fair, because it ends up being the children who lose out in an ideological battle in this Parliament because they do not want to equate offers in the field of children. The quality of private care provision is certainly an important part of the discussion. We are also concerned about this by the Left. Therefore, there has also been an ongoing focus on how supervision will be transparent and a focus on pedagogical quality. That is why I think it is a pity to hear that there are parties in here who believe that private care services generally have poor quality, even when it comes to private education. That is not the impression I have received when I have visited them across the country. I also think it is a pity that today's debate once again cements the challenge that exists between the country and the city, because a great many of the care systems we are talking about do not lie in the large cities. They are located in rural areas. They are located where there is a little longer between houses and where there is not the same basis for setting up institutions there, where many municipalities have also abandoned municipal day care, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur also confirmed, and where the number of children enrolled in municipal day care has fallen from around 60,000 in 2010 to less than 30,000 in 2020. Therefore, in many places private care provision is the small close offer, which is important for a great many children, where being in large groups of children is not the educational right thing to do in relation to their needs. That is why I hope that, in the committee's examination of the motion for a resolution, we will hopefully be able to move some of the unfortunately very ideologically-legged ideas of the Red Parliament when it comes to guaranteeing free elections in the field of children. I hope we can get to a situation where we can really get equality in our offer in the area of children, where money can follow children and where, as is the case today, you do not depend on the family having a good economy in order to have the same choice in the area of children. This is the case today when you cannot get an economic space, for example. as a family, it is considered that what your child needs most is a private care provision and e.g. Not a crèche offer. But thank you for your support for the New Civil, Liberal Alliance, Danish People's Party and Conservatives. I think it is important that we continue to fight to ensure that there is genuine freedom of choice in the field of children in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125815	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It just gave rise to a brief remark. Here you go, Mrs. Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125820	I think it is out of order when the rapporteur from the Left tries to make it sound as if we are some people who should say something about the educational background of the private children's carers. I don't know, I haven't seen any inventory of it. What I am saying is that we in the Radical Left have an ambition to demand that adults who have to deal with our children should be educated. That is why I am fighting for us to have many more educators in our institutions, and I am working for all our day carers to be trained. That is why I want to ask the Left back: what is the Left's ambition to cover the children's area?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125859	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210125900	Thank you for the question. We are at least as busy as the Radical Left of the fact that we have more educators trained. We have also come up with a number of concrete proposals on how to ensure this. We have also clearly said that it is not enough for us that there are just more hands. For us, there is a difference between whether you have a professional education or whether you are just a few extra hands that can go to and help. I just think that the starting point today is that there are institutions, municipal institutions where the proportion of teachers is not high enough. This does not mean, of course, that parents are deprived of the opportunity to have a financial free space. There are also municipal day carers today, where the level of education could well have been a little higher if we were to put it nicely. This does not mean that we are depriving parents and children of the opportunity to have a financial free space. That, then, is what is being done with the private pass, and I do not think that is proportionate and in order, because it does, of course, mean that there is a marked discrimination in the area of children and also that children coming from low-income families are deprived of the opportunity to have a real free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130006	Thank you. Mrs. Lotte Rod, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130008	Thank you for that answer. Does this mean that we can expect the Left to join in, if we are to have the opportunity in one way or another, to join forces to make demands on education coverage, and that the Left, if at some point the Left has an influence on the money, would also like to give priority to setting aside money to enable us to cover education?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130027	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130028	We have put forward a number of proposals on how to strengthen educator training, also how to increase the number of people who are going there, and also how to increase the number of people who are going there. I myself, as a minister, helped to make a dimensioning agreement that raised the number of teaching assistants. There is a great job to be done to ensure that there is enough training. My experience of the private pass is just another than that they should have a lower level. In fact, I find that a great many private passes have actually taken both the pedagogical assistant training and in general is very concerned with continuing training. That is why we can go in and look at it if it is important for the Radical Left. It's the reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130105	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130108	I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur of the Left can confirm that you can have free space if you have sent your children in private day care.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130121	That is not what this resolution is about, and that is what we discussed before. This resolution is not about private day care, which is something other than the private pass. Nor is it about the private kindergarten or the self-serving kindergarten or, for that matter, the municipal kindergarten or the municipal day care. This is about the private pass, and the private pass is not available today, and I think it is really a pity that the Social Democrats will not be involved in creating social equality and ensuring that children from low-income families can also have a free space with the private pass, so that the free choice in the field of children is really free, no matter what economy you have as a family.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130159	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130202	It's not that I don't understand the technique of this, I'm asking the question. It is, of course, because I think it is a little strange that we should have a discussion time and time again in which the rapporteur of the Left spends an extremely long time saying that this shows that the red side does not like something that is private and only wants something that is public. Therefore, my illustration of this was actually just that it is not the discussion we have. This isn't about public or private. It is about the educational content and the demands we can make on the offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130237	No, this motion for a resolution, which we are discussing today, is not what we were talking about in the last case, that is, what with everything else, is about private passes, and in private passes, you cannot have economic freedom today, and that means that there is a social inequality for children coming from low-income families in relation to having the free choice in the field of children. If the Social Democrats wanted to join in rebelling against it, they would of course support the motion for a resolution. And yes, we can have a fine discussion about how we also improve the quality of the private pass. We also took that discussion, as I myself was Minister for Children's Affairs, but that is not what the proposal today is about. It is about whether everyone should have free choice in the field of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130316	Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130319	I note in the rapporteur's speech again again that it must all be about ideological differences. Here, the difference is probably that we are some who, when the public pays for some caring for children in their own homes, make high quality demands. What is the ideological aspect? I'd really like to hear that. Sometimes it is just a matter of practical policy and that we have different views about how things should work. Is it really necessary always to elevate it to ideology, even such simple questions as this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130403	Yes, we always take a quality discussion, but we could take it so appropriately if Enhedslisten would support that there should be free choice in the area of children. We could then go beyond what is high-ideological today, namely that unfortunately we have some parties here in the Danish Parliament that will not allow there to be a real free choice for all children. And in the case of private passes, this means that children who come from non-profit-making families do not have the same free choice as children from other families, and if it is not about ideology, but obviously only resistance, then it has the same consequence: the parents of children do not have the same opportunities to choose the care provision that their children need. As a thank you, we are happy to take a quality discussion. I have just not seen that we have been summoned to the negotiations because they have made that block policy and broken with decades of tradition of negotiating child policy across the Folketing. So it has also been a little difficult to participate in that part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130507	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130510	The issue here is not whether there is free choice or not free choice. There is, of course, a free choice between a number of different day-to-day offers, and I also said so in my rapporteur's speech. Otherwise, I would just like to say that, if the rapporteur thinks it is an ideological question, that it is right that when the public pays for childcare in people's private homes, there should be a high quality, so as to sign up for the ideology. I am just a little uncertain as to why it should be ideologicalised and not just about practical policy and different approaches to the way in which we make demands on welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130546	Yes, but I see that it is the Enhedslisten and also other parties who are doing so ideologically, because they have so clearly distanced themselves from the private services that are available in Denmark, both with the legislative proposal that has been made, which reduces the opportunities for setting up a private kindergarten, the draft law that was presented yesterday, which reduces the economic basis for free choice and the private way through, but also today, when it comes to private passes, it does not want to give equal access to children's families to have free choice in the field of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130621	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130649	The debate is open. The Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210130657	Thank you. This is both a thank-you to the Left for having tabled the motion for a resolution, but perhaps a special thanks to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby herself personally. All the years I've been in Parliament, this has been one of the topics for which Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby has insisted on working to make changes, and I think we should skip the flag for that. This resolution is about bullying, which, in my opinion, is an extremely important issue to deal with, and indeed one of the issues in which it moves something when we move on politically. So, going back over time, we can simply see a drastic drop in bullying over the years quite simultaneously with where both politically and in schools start to move on to the mop agenda. This means that the debate is not only important because bullying is something that disables people to experience. That is not only why it is important as a debate; it is important because we can actually do something about it. In other words, it is not just a debate for the sake of debate, with something in which we can actually help people to avoid having a childhood where bullying is part of everyday life. Furthermore, it can be said that bullying has in these years moved from being something and it was so bad enough that was going on in school and on the way home from school, until today it is also something that has penetrated the children's rooms. It is, of course, because children and young people today have digital gadgets. This means that they sit with their phones and iPads and have contact with each other over social media, and therefore you can't even be at peace with the bullying when you're at home. So it's very important that we do something about the bullying. What is being proposed here is that the review body should be made permanent and that the action plan against bullying should be updated in cooperation with organisations of interest and that school owners should be subject to liability. I would like to start by saying that there is a lot of this that we can agree with each other on. There's also some of what we can't do. But I think we can go a long way together. And just so that everyone who listens knows it, it is the case that the national complaints body against bullying is subject to what is called a sunset clause, which means that it automatically expires. And that is where we in the government wanted the sunset clause to be extended by one year. I would say that just on that point one might have considered just making it permanent in a hurry, but for me it is extremely important that we involve the parties and that we do not conclude in advance. In fact, it could also be thought that there were some wishes for a different arrangement of it, or what I know is coming up in that kind of involvement, and that is why the government has chosen to extend it by one year so that we have the opportunity to persevere in the next year. Yes, then it may be that there are some changes in content, and what I know, but it is actually in order to have to make the next year permanent. This is because we have established a very good collaboration in what is called Together about the school, and also have an interest in involving various child organisations and others other than those who are normally in Together about the school, to get the input needed so that we can make a solid solution. The attitudes there are very different, and the main thing I'm going to get input to is not whether it should be permanentized or not, but whether the content is hit right or not. I believe that this process of involvement is crucial, and we should not conclude it in advance. Then there has been criticism of the overall anti-mop regulations, and I think that is one of the things in which we should not conclude in advance. I believe that we should both discuss the criticism, but also discuss the possible changes with both parties and children's organisations, so that we achieve a very good set of rules. And when I put so much emphasis on this, it is because it is my experience that we can do a lot with legislation, and when we do it with legislation without the involvement of the parties, then it is perhaps 40, 50, 60% that actually does what is being legislated around. It is my clear view that going the way of creating involvement and ownership means that the effects of what we make decisions will ultimately be far, far greater. Then I myself have suggested that the student perspective should be much stronger in our understanding of bullying, and that is also one of the points we should be turning with the parties, as well as some of the points raised by the student organisations. The process of this is in full swing. The review of the anti-bullying provisions was discussed in Together about the school on Monday, and the other stakeholders were invited to a joint meeting in January, and then we return to the school together when we have had the broad circle of organisations inside. We established together about the school because it must be a common task for everyone with an interest and a share in the primary school to find out how best to change things and make it best. That is why I think it is important that the anti-bulb regulations should also be included there. So far, so well, and I really think that in these areas we could reach very broad common solutions among the parties of the Folketing and with the parties. Then I understand that the Left would like to impose a liability on school owners in the event of bullying. It can be said that bullying, as I said at the outset, is often so devastating that sanctions may be needed. So far, so good, but I do not think that we should focus on imposing penalties, and that is to say, I am open to discussing the sanctions mechanisms, both whether the sanction mechanisms that exist are being used well enough and whether other sanction mechanisms are needed, but the focus on punishment is not really so much my concern. I am concerned that schools are acting, and I am concerned that they must act quickly, and indeed they must do so within the current rules. In other words, I think that is what we really need to focus on. And then I would say that in the present provisions, the National Appeals Board against Bullying may issue an injunction, for example. the municipal council, and if the order is not complied with that means that if the municipalities do not do what they have to do and do not fulfil their responsibilities, then you can actually punish. Then you can simply impose daily fines on the members of the municipal council. It's just to say that when I say what I'm doing here, it may sound like I'm against punishment in this system. I'm not. I am just in favour of the punishment being put in the right place, namely where you have the ultimate responsibility for these things being in order. What is then the challenge is how often it is then used. And it may not do that often enough, and the question is whether the sabres are also being rattled in relation to whether it is often enough. So, in this way, I think it might be quite appropriate to go in and look at the sanctions that exist and see if we can tighten up any of them, not least the application of them in relation to what is the case today. It is therefore just an open door for us to take it to the negotiating table. In fact, there have been far fewer complaints about bullying than expected, and I am actually a little concerned about this, because I do not think it reflects the fact that there is no need, but I think that there is a lack of knowledge about the National Complaints Board against Bullying and about DCUM in general, because the DCUM is not just a complaint body. They also guide in handling bullying, and you need to know that they do so in order for you to be able to apply them. That is why I also believe that part of what we need to look at is how to spread knowledge of the DCUM so that schools know where to find guidance in relation to bullying situations and where pupils and parents can complain if they feel that they have not received the necessary support. At the same time, it is crucial for me that the student's experience of being bullied is taken seriously and that schools respond immediately. Today it may be delayed by the school management first having to find out whether this corresponds to the school's understanding of whether or not it is a question of bullying. The delays there are unnecessary, and it must be the case that when a child asks for help, action must be taken, and this must be done quickly. Therefore, I want the child's experience of bullying to be decisive for whether it is handled by the school, and in general it will be relevant to look at how pupils can be more involved in improving the educational environment, not least when it comes to well-being and bullying. It is also important that the handling of bullying takes place on the basis of Community-oriented bullying, which fortunately is very widespread in schools, i.e. that bullying arises in inappropriate social dynamics, and therefore the solution is also to build positive and binding communities instead. I would also like to focus on prevention, early management and on optimising the current anti-bulb regulations in the light of the dialogue with the sector. I would therefore like to say that I cannot support immediately and the government cannot immediately support the desire to impose liability on the school-owner in bullying, but can absolutely support the direction of battle that lies in it, that is, the idea that we should go in to look at the sanctions that exist. So all in all, although there may be some details on which we do not entirely agree, I believe that the direction of battle is absolutely right and that this is a good starting point for the discussions that we have started, but which we have not yet completed at all. So thank you very much for also dragging this debate into this public space and formal space in the Parliamentary Chamber to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. I look forward very much to moving forward with this agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210131629	A brief comment. Ellen Trane Nørby, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210131633	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for the recognition of the work ahead. It is a case that absorbs the Left very, very much, and it does, because bullying causes scars on the soul and sometimes also on the body of very many children and young people, and that is one of the things that subsequently weighs on the luggage. This applies not only to young people who later end up in psychiatric treatment, but also to people who, at a later stage in their lives, break down because they simply have not worked out the bullying they have been subjected to, and that is to say, the kidning of their self-esteem, which it often is, and we must have made that clear, and fortunately it is also progressing. I would like to ask the Minister about the issue of liability. Because it is true that in the original legislation there is in fact an economic penalty which can ultimately be implemented in daily penalties, but it is not aimed at the person who is subjected to the abuse. And here we have actually been inspired to suggest that the money to be paid to the state should instead be paid to the person who has been subjected to the abuse, just as we have seen with the Children's Conditions, which in matters relating to housing have ordered the municipalities to pay compensation for some of the children who have been abandoned.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210131752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210131755	I would like to say that I think we should discuss this when we start both negotiations and discussions with the parties around the school. I mean, I have not drawn any pre-conclusions which are absolutely rigid and rigid. But I would like to say that this is not the part of, for example, the American legal system that I am most impressed with, so where the possibility of obtaining a financial gain is driving which legal proceedings are being conducted, and especially because a child needs to be reacted immediately, and that is to say, if we are to engage in grueling liability cases, I am simply concerned that there is a long time to go. I think in some way that focus is crooked. That is why it may well be that it should be a by-product, and I do not wish to deny that, in other words, what I mean is that bullying can consist of a great many different things, and I do not hear the rapporteur say that this should then be the heaviest leg in the bullying we are doing. Well, I don't want to write it off completely, but it's just not the part of the American system I'm most impressed with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210131858	Here you go, Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210131902	I am certainly not in favour of an American system either. If the Minister had read what we are referring to, she would have seen that we are referring to Swedish experience in this area, and Sweden is anything but a country other than the United States. But, for example, if you do... Taking the case of Children's Conditions, which was a matter of principle, namely the case of the Slagelsegirls, it was a matter of principle because it also sent an unequivocal signal to the municipalities that action must be taken and the obligation to act must be defended. And that is why we fully agree that this is not the biggest leg, but it is probably a necessity, just as it sends out the signal that there are cases that are so serious that it is worth discussing, but I hear the Minister also taking that down positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210131944	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210131948	Absolutely. And I would say that I think we should do something about the duty to act, which is one of the things that has got my head off, because, having been sitting in the social field for many years, I know that, although one has a duty to inform, it is all too often not done and, at the same time, it is also being followed up, which means that the sanctions that lie in place are certainly not being applied often enough. And I would say with regard to the obligation to act, that it would of course be my view that if the tools were actually used, for example. in the form of saying to municipal councillors: "Well, if you do not comply with your obligation, then there is a risk that you will receive daily tickets, someone would probably crunch the shoes a little more often than is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132021	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments and we can start with the rapporteur's round. It's first, sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132036	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Left for once again putting bullying on the agenda. There is no doubt that it is both devastating for them, it hits, but of course also a very large little difficult, but very large and common task that we face here. Because if we are to put an end to the bullying, we cannot solve it by removing individuals who are either subjected to bullying or actually bullying; then we have to look at it more widely and ensure that the communities of which we are a part are actually communities that take responsibility for the bullying not to take place. In practical terms, the motion tabled by the Left is a question of permanentising the right of appeal, which includes, among other things, the right of appeal. have been used for a few years now, and I would like to be honest in saying that, with my glasses and the spectacles of the Social Democratic Party, I can understand the Left's desire to conclude that it must be permanentised already. Basically, I am also in the mind to do that myself. We also think, and I do not, of course, hear that the Left does not disagree with the fact that it may be that, after the involvement of those parties in the school field, which are also a major part of the solution, it may be that this is more than a dispute over the content of the proposal, perhaps more a question of whether we should commit each other to going down the road of turning up the bullying effort, when we have actually had the dialogue with the parties, which has been a little delayed by corona and other things, but which is nevertheless important. So we support the direction that is like in this, but it is also crucial perhaps to get that dialogue around the student perspective a little stronger with in here. And so it is true, and the Minister has also explained that liability may not be the right solution, but the signal that it should not be free of charge, or that it is not okay not to put in place and lift its responsibility in the bullying field, we are very much in agreement with the Left that we should send, and that is why we must also discuss whether the things that are actually contained in the current legislation are being used enough or are strong enough, or whether it can somehow be tightened up, even without going down a road, and I do not hear the rapporteur say that either. So there is full support for it, but also a recognition that if we are to have the parties in this area commit themselves to this and enter into it, it is probably wise that we do so first before we conclude on the permanentisation of the review body, which we also regard as an important part of the overall fight against bullying.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132339	There is a brief comment on Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132343	I think it is a pity that the Social Democratic Party does not want to make the appeal body permanent. It is a clear wish of the pupils, it is a clear wish of the parents' organisations, it is a clear wish of the children's organisations. There is an evaluation of the national review body and should we just continue it in the form it now has? No, because then we'd be ignoring all this, and that's why it has to be implemented, of course. I just don't think, as the rapporteur knows, that we get around the fact that the key parties that the rapporteur is talking about • I assume that BUPL, the Danish Teachers' Association, the Afterschool Association, the Danish Free School Association, Denmark's Private Schools, the Children's and Culture Managers' Association and KL are relatively central • were opposed to the creation when we made the agreement in 2016, and they have also sent a letter to all of us, where they still say they are opposed. That is why I fully agree that we need to involve and that we need to use evaluation, but I just think that we need to deal politically with the fact that some of the key parties were opposed and opposed, and I also hope that the Social Democratic Party recognises this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132447	Then we'll get the answer. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132450	I would therefore like to thank you for the opportunity to clarify this, even if it may be repeated. I and the Social Democrats are also of the opinion that the review body has been a good thing and that it should therefore be part of the future action against bullying and thus also become permanent. That is why it is not a question of this not being what we think, because there is only a question of not getting the wagon in front of the horse, but of having the dialogue on the possible adjustments for which the evaluation is based, that is to say on the student perspective and everything else. But the fact that you have a dialogue is not the same as saying that if someone in the school circle does not want the review body, it will not happen, because I certainly believe that we have a political responsibility to decide whether it should be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132545	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132549	Thank you. In fact, I think that was quite a different answer and it made it clear more clearly, and I was satisfied with that, because I really think that the Social Democrat rapporteur had a slightly different balance than I had actually heard from the Minister's reply. That is why I also hope that, with the legislative proposal that will then come in February, we can really work towards permanentisation and not just a postponement of the sunset clause. Because this is also about maintaining skilled staff in relation to the appeal body, and we have had that discussion before. I would actually like to ask the rapporteur a question on the action plan, in other words whether the Social Democratic Party is involved in updating the action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132623	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132626	We are in the process of discussing everything, and I am sorry if there is uncertainty about what I said in the first place. No, I think that the review body has been a good thing, and I think that the evaluation that is in place shows that it has been necessary. I am sure that this has been an important part, not that it is perfect now, but that it is an important part of the effort. That is why I really hope that if we were to do something about this motion for a resolution, we should work in committee to produce a report in which we send out some of the political signals that are important, without prejudging the dialogue we are going to have with the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132702	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132718	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we think it is incredibly important to create a school yard that allows proper education, and that is when you do not have the kind of problems that bullying poses. Good and professional education is also something that can reduce bullying, because then there will be less opportunity to spend your time on anything but receiving knowledge and learning something sensible. We have in our parliamentary group made several proposals. It is my colleague, Mr Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, who has made several different proposals to combat bullying, including digital bullying, so this is an area in which we are very concerned. That is why we are also very concerned about the figures referred to in the resolution that there is such a high level of bullying around the country. That is why we would also very much like to support the motion for a resolution to make the national review body and the other measures contained in the motion for a resolution permanent. But I also think it is important to bear in mind that there may be many other things to do as well. So this shouldn't be the only thing you do, of course, because a lot more needs to be done. Especially in the digital field, where there are so many new things, I certainly think it is necessary to soak our heads and find out what else can be done. So the Danish People's Party supports the resolution, but would also very much like to call for all parties to continue to do something about bullying in schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132905	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we move on to Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210132920	Thank you. Unfortunately, the SF's rapporteur in this area has no opportunity to be here, so I will therefore present her speech. For SF it is important that we make an extra effort against bullying in Denmark, at the Danish schools. Bullying is complex. It's not just in the schoolyard. In fact, it may take place even more after school, on Instagram, Snapchat or TikTok or on all kinds of other platforms, where children and young people spend much of their time, and then take it with them in school the next day. Bullying is complex because it often involves group dynamics and not individual individuals holding each other in or out. These are the dynamics and negative patterns that we must have a fight with and put an end to, because bullying is so devastating that it can bring great challenges far into adult life. Many schools already have a strong focus on bullying and handle many situations out there, but sometimes the student stands alone and without the right help. With this court of appeal, we give the students rights in bullying. With it, the students and parents have a place to go if they feel abandoned and find that the school does not take proper care of the bullying. In the evaluation of anti-bullying regulations and the national anti-bullying body, we can see that the number of complaints about bullying has increased from 52 to 120 in just one year. In more than half of the cases, the appeal body considered that the school or municipality in question had failed to fulfil its obligations. That's worrying. It's worrying because bullying isn't something we should be joking about. Children's experience of going to school suffers, and it can pursue them and define them for the rest of their lives. That is why it is important that we have early and rapid interventions, so that the lowest possible impact is possible. SF believes that the national complaints body against bullying should be permanent. However, we have chosen to support the Minister's request to postpone the evaluation and treatment of the review body, as we naturally want input from those who face the problems of everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210133111	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And thank you for wiping out the platform. Then we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210133123	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Left for making this proposal. Sometimes there are some motions for resolutions which are somewhat teased because they are already being resolved. But sometimes motions for resolutions also help to push something forward, so that more is done and things may happen a little faster than they would otherwise have happened. At any rate, I have the impression that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby is doing an important job and has an important voice in this debate. So thank you so much. After all, in Denmark, we have taken a decisive step in the understanding of bullying over recent years. We have gone away from seeing it as something that is inside the children or in certain children who should be blamed for some of it, in relation to some children being bullied, and some other children bullying, to look at it more as a problem that is in the community, i.e. where the community is too weak and culture is too insecure, so we must therefore work with bullying in a way where we take responsibility for there being a strong community and that it is always the adults who are responsible for that community, rather than the individual child being blamed for that. That's where this court of appeal matters, too. For some of the feedback we have seen is that the schools have not actually worked with the bullying that applies, and it has been able to help push for it to break through everywhere. I think that is so absolutely crucial that children everywhere, in all schools, in all classes can feel that here is printed and good to be. So with those words, I would just like to say that we are open to finding a model here where we can continue with the review body, as the Left suggests. At the same time, as the Minister says, I also think it makes very good sense to think this into a major debate on the whole area. Therefore, I hope that in the process of dealing with this, we can really find each other and do something that we can all see meaning in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210133337	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which means that we move on to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210133352	When we in the Danish Parliament adopted five years ago a new legislation to tackle bullying at educational institutions, it had the very clear support of the Enhedslisten. We thought it was reasonable. Although structural solutions do not always solve the problems, we thought it sensible to launch a series of structural initiatives, including the establishment of the National Appeals Board against Bullying. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby has already mentioned that there was great concern among teachers and school leaders and others. I confess that this led me to introduce a sunset clause in order to respond to the concerns of teachers during the debate. I believe that it was five years ago that Mrs Merete Riisager, the Minister for Education at the time, called on me to introduce a sunset clause. I am not going to say that it was my speech that triggered it, but it certainly ended up with us having such a sunset clause. In the meantime, the system, together with other initiatives, has been evaluated, and I have to say that when you look at the evaluation, there is no justification for not continuing the review body. It hasn't been laid down by cases. That could be one concern. The number of complaints has been relatively small, and it can be seen when you ask parents that there is general satisfaction with the arrangement among parents, and this is really important. That is why we support the continuation of the National Appeals Board against Bullying. We agree that something needs to be done about the sunset clause. As far as the second part of the resolution is concerned, we are a little more hesitant. That is what we are talking about: we must be able to raise liability to the schools. However, I would also like to say that we are also not opposed to the fact that at some point it can be brought into play, that it is a tool that we need. We are discussing it in other areas and we know it from other areas. We have a patient replacement scheme that I don't know very well. In the Enhedslisten, we strongly advocate that in the social field we establish a legal security fund to which a municipality may be required to pay if it does not comply with the law and rules. On the last point, I would like to say that the most important thing for us in this debate in the social field is not so much the compensation for the individual, but more so that it can be of a preventive nature and help ensure that financial incentives also make municipalities comply with the legislation. However, compensation for the individual is part of the social aspect too. So we are certainly not opposed to the idea. There can be challenges by putting it into practice. We also meet in the social debate the question of how to measure it; if you have not been assigned a companion, will you then have two? No, that doesn't make much sense. But there too I have mentioned that the concept of reimbursement of allowances does exist, which means that even if no damage has been done which can normally be done in the economy, compensation can actually be paid. But it's not quite simple. I recognize that. However, I do think it would be sensible to continue working on this. After all, it does not always have to be the case that resolutions will end up being rejected. Nevertheless, I would like to say that even with the clear announcement I have made here and I agree that a dialogue has now been set up and that a bill has now been put in place by the government. Jens Joel said in his concluding remarks, namely, to make a story. And if I were to write it myself, it would probably be something to point out that there are some options in this, but that we think it would be very sensible, together with the parties, to take the dialogue initiated by the Minister. But otherwise I would like to shake hands with the fact that we are prepared for something to happen in this area. And then I took the liberty of looking at how Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby's party colleagues had acted in the social field, where they vigorously rejected the creation of a legal protection fund and would not pursue any policy. However, it may be worth considering also to take a closer look at almost exactly the same problem in the social field.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210133852	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we thank you. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210133919	My and New Citizens' school policy is clear: in short, the school must return to the people. I am an educated teacher, and until the election on 5 June 2019, when I was elected here to the Danish Parliament, I worked in the Danish primary school. In addition, I have two children who both attend a primary school. I have always been opposed to school reform, inclusion used as savings exercise and national tests, and that I was elected to the Folketing has not changed my attitude. I believe that schools must be unleashed by politicians' straitjacket. Schools must be free and the money must follow each child. And with our policy, education in Denmark will continue to be paid for tax, just as it does today; we just want to make up for the fact that it is the municipalities that run the schools. Municipalities shall not have any influence on the establishment, operation or content of teaching. They only have to have the duty of supervision. Politicians interfered extremely with the school reform, which has neither raised pupils' academic performance nor well-being, as the Danish Center for Social Science, VIVE, concludes. I have never really understood the fact that politicians think they should interfere in everything. I want confidence to come back to the professionals and for retail management to disappear. The huge primary school law must be replaced by a short school law, and schools have the freedom to do the best school in exactly their area in cooperation between the manager, the teachers, the parents and the children. This is the way to create a good school, where it is also a priority to upgrade teacher training to university level with longer internship than today, and a good school where schools are based on Danish values of democracy, equality and equality. And it is healthy with respect for the teaching work, and it is healthy that parents are free to choose the school that best suits their needs, as long as it is of course anchored in Danish values, Danish languages, culture, liberalism and democracy. Because we owe it to the talented teachers, leaders and committed parents to provide them with the framework for creating the best school for the benefit of the children, and they are not there right now. They will be with New Citizens' school policy. In short, you have to be able to choose schools, and you have to be able to choose schools from. We believe that it is right to have this right of appeal too, because whatever happens, you must be able to complain if you experience your child being bullied and you do not see that the school is responding, and that is important. And I have therefore spoken to both acquaintances and to others who have approached me over the years about the fact that they have experienced that their school has not dealt with bullying, that the parents have repeatedly contacted the school and expressed concern, both to the existing teacher and to the management, and that in the most general cases they have actually experienced that there has been a shooting back: is it not your own child who is responsible for the problems? It's not supposed to be like that. So even if we say in our school policy that we can choose bad offers from and good at, we must of course also be able to complain about if the offer we really like is just not dealing with exactly this particular problem. And so there are no children going to school and subjected to bullying, because it is so devastating. So, of course, we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210134304	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210134329	Thank you, President. Thank you for the overall positive reception of our motion for a resolution. I am actually very pleased about that. Then we will always be able to determine in committee what form it should take. I hear a few comments on the report; I think it might be very good to make a decision now, in fact, that the review body should be made permanent rather than merely prolonging it for another year, but we must take that into consideration in the committee's proceedings. At any rate, I welcome the receipt of our motion for a resolution. There is no doubt that we need to do more to combat bullying and also the major consequences of bullying, both for children and young people who experience their suffering, but also for the unhealthy environments and cultures associated with bullying. That is why it has also been important to us all the way back when we in the Left Government in November 2016 made the first national anti-bullying agreement, the whole action plan earlier in that year, together with the Children's Council, Children's Conditions and Save the Children and with MaryFonden as a professional sparring partner, made that we should be united and united in fighting bullying, because the children who are subjected to bullying need some adults to take responsibility. They need some adults to intervene. They need some adults to act and not cover themselves under the fact that it is always some others who should lift the work. That is why the action plan against bullying was aimed at setting up the updated bully viewer, and as the consultation answers and evaluation also points out, children's vision can be even more involved in it. In fact, I think that the input from the Children's Council is really, really important in ensuring that children's own voice is even more involved. For one thing is what a school experiences, another is what the child experiences. This is, after all, a bit of the discussion we are having on other major social trends at the moment. Something may have been said without the sender meaning it, but if it is perceived that way, it still has a consequence. Then it bites, then it hurts, then it can have consequences for the child who feels that you are not part of a community who feels that you are being excluded, who feels that you are being bullied. One of the things we have also emphasised in our motion for a resolution is to update the action plan in particular, because a great deal has happened since 2016. It's not like the plan of action isn't good. It is simply a question of ascertaining, and also of recognising, that, for example. bullying on the digital platforms, whether it is in Snapchat, TikTok or a wide range of other social media, fills even more today, if possible, than it has ever done in the past. Although it was also full in 2016, and even if we updated the Order at that time, so that things that are going on on social media but that affect into school can also be sanctioned from a school perspective, one has to say that this development has gone smoking fast since then, and therefore it is all the more necessary to update the action plan against bullying in relation to young people's habits, digitalization, but also in relation to the latest knowledge and evidence in the bullying area, where much has also emerged since 2016. Then, of course, we have also read from the Left the evaluation of the National Complaints Board against Bullying, and we are so sure that if the Minister calls for negotiations, we could make an updated political agreement in the area of bullying, where we also take stock of some of the recommendations that lie both in the evaluation but also subsequently received in the consultation responses. I just think it is important that we also take stock of what I also asked the Social Democrat rapporteur, namely that there is also a call to all of us from exactly the same parties who were against the national review body six years ago • some rather central actors around the school who think they can handle everything locally and that we should not interfere in that at all and are still opposed to it. I just think we have to say there, just as we said back in 2016 and with legislation in 2017, that sometimes there is also a political responsibility to see that if it were so well and so right and so good that all problems were handled locally, well, that was probably not necessary. Unfortunately, both the well-being measurements as well as the Children's Terms and Save the Children's Surveys show that it is not the case that all bullying is handled locally, unfortunately, you can say. That is why I think it would be a very good signal to send out precisely that we agree politically on the permanentisation of the national review body. We have actually proposed, as the last element of the motion for a resolution, that liability should be reversed in the sense that, as is the case in the legislation in force, the municipality, the councillors as those responsible, and also the owner of a school, can be subject to liability, but, in principle, payment must be made to the state and where we would actually like to be inspired by Swedish experience by saying that compensation instead of compensation goes to the person who is the defendant. I shall not go far into a discussion with Enhedslisten's rapporteur on the social area. I myself mentioned the Slagelse case as a matter of principle, which the Children's Terms raised on the basis of a very, very massive failure, also from a municipal body, and some similar things we unfortunately see in the bullying area where, despite the obligation to act and the school, the municipality does not intervene. We have also looked at the victim fund, which is also a similar structure, and I took it down positively from everyone's side to look at it. And no, it is not about Americanising the Danish complaint system, but it is also about sending a very strong signal, as we write, that there is also an experience of justice that must be done if you have experienced that schools, municipalities, the system as a whole fail when a child needs the most that the system is ready to intervene. So thank you for your comments. Thank you for your support. I have also promised to greet the Conservative People's Party, which could not be present in the Chamber, and to say that they also support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210135002	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211210135020	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 14 December at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
