ParlaMint-DK_20210409100004	The meeting is open. Member of the Folketing Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following motions for resolutions: B 102). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed and item 2 is deleted from the agenda. Today there are the following reviews: Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Peter Skaarup (DF), Karsten Hønge (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. Β 291 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better births) B 293 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the 1969 civil service reform and equality of pay between public professions (Citizen's proposal). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 292 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an experimental scheme for open-air villages). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100125	The debate is open. Sir. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100148	Thank you for that, President. Today we have to deal with a bill to postpone the revision of the Danish logging law, if you can call it that, and I am aware that it is the tenth time that we are doing this exercise. I don't know if it's some kind of record. It is not necessarily a record one has to strive for or be proud of, but it bears witness to what kind of complex matter we are dealing with. Logging means it's a tool to solve crime. It is a tool for logging telecommunications information, which is used quite a lot by both our police and our intelligence services to ensure the safety of the Danes by being able to solve both very serious crime, terrorism, but also other types of a little more simple crime, where it is also organised and so on, because this information is quite important in terms of solving crime. For a long time now, there has been a discussion on how the various EU countries organise their logging legislation, and there have been a number of judgments, and by 6 October last year a verdict has been passed challenging the Danish law, and that is why the Minister of Justice has also played out a few weeks ago that in the forthcoming parliamentary assembly we will have to create a new logging law which will conform to the judgment that has come. As I said on 6 October, the judgment is that all EU countries must look at what it means in relation to national legislation, and the argument we have had over and over again in the postponement of the review has been that it is most natural that EU countries find common standards on how we deal with this issue of logging. That argument is still valid, and that is also why we are now proposing to postpone the review, which is simply a need for the EU countries, including Denmark, to find out how to organise national rules in the light of European rules and, above all, the judgment that fell on 6 October. The work is under way and, as you know, the Minister for Justice has said that a legislative proposal will be put forward in the next session, and that means that we are going to put forward a proposal to postpone the review for the tenth time and, hopefully, also for the last time, because we will then be able to achieve a new piece of legislation. That's how the procedure works. The reality is that the possibilities for solving serious crime and crime in general will be reduced when the possibilities for logging information become narrow. Where exactly the cut is, we will learn more when the government becomes wiser, when the office becomes wiser, and when the other EU countries also learn more about the consequences of the latest judgment. But the reality is that it will be more difficult to solve different types of crime, and the only ones who win are the criminals, and the only ones who lose out on it are all those who are exposed to crime. So that is not a particular situation, I think, but nevertheless it is the conditions of the iron industry, and that is why we are now putting forward a postponement of the review.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100533	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100536	Thanks for the speech. Yes, postponement for the tenth time emphasizes the absurdity of this. It was back in 2017, when we have the Tele2-Watson judgment, that the legislative practice we have in Denmark was seriously overruled. That is where you were told that there is a speed limit of 90 km/h, but you still chose to continue driving over 100 km/h. For years. And the judgment that came first Tuesday in October last year has merely been an extension of the practice so far, so there was nothing surprising about it. I would therefore just like to ask the rapporteur how long the rapporteur thinks Denmark can only continue not to comply with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, so that thousands, in fact hundreds of thousands, of innocent Danes, must be subjected to general and undifferentiated mass surveillance, as is the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100636	I think that if you listen to this, it might appear that Denmark is alone and is the only country in the European Union that is considering in depth what national legislation should look like in relation to the judgments that exist. It's not like that. Unfortunately, we are in exactly the same boat as the rest of the countries of the European Union who are trying to find out what the consequences of these judgments are for national legislation. The latest judgment that came was in a case concerning Belgium and France, and they are also in the same process as we are in, in order to understand the consequences. So we are running on a national track, but which is also linked to what a large number of other EU countries are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100717	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100719	Referring to the fact that others are running too fast is probably not the best argument I have heard. I still have the merit of seeing a speeding driver who can point to others crossing the speed limits and then get rid of a fine. So, of course, it is not an excuse on the part of Denmark for us to continue for years not to comply with the rules of logging, and so I just want to hear how long the Social Democracy thinks it is acceptable. How many years can Denmark continue to violate the EU Charter and continue to expose hundreds of thousands of innocent Danes to general and undifferentiated surveillance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100752	But now it's sir. Kristian Hegaard, who defines the speed limit, and it is clear that if Mr. Kristian Hegaard says that the speed limit is 90 km/h, and the rest of us drive 110 km/h, so we're going too fast after Mr. Kristian Hegaard's speed limit. But if I say that the limit is what we are running, namely 110 km/h, and that it is the same track and speed as a large number of other EU countries that are in the same process, then we do not exceed the speed limit. So it's a question of who it is that you think defines the speed limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100822	Then it is Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100825	At the last conciliation meeting, it came to the conclusion that we cannot actually require the telecommunications companies to log the information, and we certainly cannot sanction them if they stop. Does the Socialist rapporteur not think that it would be most fair to say to the telecommunications companies that they should stop? Now they are in such a rather delicate situation where there is legislation to log, but there has been a announcement from the Minister that we cannot sanction them if they stop. Wouldn't it be most fair to say to the telecommunications companies: you can stop logging from today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100902	It is, of course, most fair in this debate to recognise that it is an incredibly complex issue where there are no easy solutions, where they say that we are simply pulling the plug, because now there is a judgment or saying that you just have to stop because it cannot be sanctioned. There are no easy solutions in this way. Therefore, it is not fair to simply adjust the rules according to the judgments that come without having measured out what the full consequence is. And because there is no sanction, that does not mean that we should not abide by the laws and regulations that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100935	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409100936	- Sir... Jeppe Bruus does not see the strangeness of the fact that we have a practice that is, in principle, illegal, but we have legislation that maintains it, and in between we have some telecommunications companies that are in a legal limbo because they cannot quite choose whether they should not follow the legislation that is in Denmark or whether they should listen to what the minister says where he says: I hope they keep logging, but we cannot impose it on them? - Sir... Jeppe Bruus didn't see that it's a slightly unclear legal situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101013	I recognise that and that is also why we are postponing the review, and that is why the government has said that we now need to put forward a new legislative proposal that there is a situation in which we are in the process of clarifying what this means for national rules. That is also why we have now postponed the review for the tenth time, which I do not think is a good record if it is a record, but, of course, just evidence of how complex this is. The telecommunications companies are deeply professional and engage in a close dialogue, and of course there will be things along the way that need to be discussed with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101044	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101045	But this is probably the longest-awaited premiere of world history on a revision of this law. And I get a little bit worried when I hear sir. Jeppe Bruus' argument, because if we think in the end that we can do everything we want in the name of the fight against crime, then any legal basis disappears for the individual citizen. And that's what this is all about. Well, it's possible that sir... Jeppe Bruus or the Minister for Justice or others do not agree with everything in the Charter of European Rights or Article 2 of the Treaty, or what I know, but the idea of having a treaty is precisely that you have a legal basis, and then you have a court that tells you what is illegal and what is not illegal. How long does Mr. Jeppe Bruus the legal situation in which we find ourselves in a no-man's-land in relation to the telecommunications companies and the individual citizen must continue?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101145	Well, now we are dealing with a legislative proposal, L 195, which means that it is a law that creates a legal situation in an area. So it is not true that we are simply operating without any legal basis. Then we have a discussion on how the national rules should look in the light of the judgments that come at European level, and this is a process that all other or many other countries are engaged in in parallel, in parallel with what we are doing here in Denmark. And I think I have explained that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101216	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101218	There is a state of law that is illegal, which has become known as illegal Jeppe Bruus. It's not like it's creating a state of law. It's a completely reverse logic. It's like Erasmus Montanus, sir. Jeppe Bruus. When will the government make sure that matters are sorted out and that it does not cover itself behind other countries? The one's mistake doesn't excuse the other's, sir. Jeppe Bruus. How long will the citizens and telecommunications companies have to wait for a legal situation, as it has been brought into line with the judgments handed down?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101256	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101257	I recognise that we have a disagreement about what the state of law is, but it will no longer be right to refer to those who say that because there was a sentence left from five years ago, or because there was a judgment in the autumn, our legislation will fall away with a snap, and then we will have to stop everything immediately. There is, after all, a different assessment in a large number of similar countries in the European Union, which are looking at the consequences it will have for national legislation. But of course you can say that now the whole foundation is gone and what we are doing is illegal, but that is a claim. Then there must be evidence of that claim. And there I think that this government and the previous government have argued well for the evidence, for the review we are undertaking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101341	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101343	Thank you. However, there is certainly evidence of that claim when we have two judgments from the European Court of Justice which say that what Denmark is doing is illegal. Well, I guess it's as clear as it gets.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101357	So, the latest judgment is about France and Belgium, and I know they haven't stopped and said: okay, now that verdict has come, and now all activity stops in a split second. After all, you are in the process of looking at the consequences that this will have on national legislation. So it is not quite right to say that that judgment is about everything we do in Denmark being illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101420	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101421	So let's take the verdict of the autumn off, but we know that the Tele2 judgment is the first judgment that concludes it pretty clearly. What Denmark does is mass surveillance. Now we've put this off for the tenth time. It is quite a long time that we have had over in the Ministry of Justice to produce legislation that actually complies with the rules, which meets the standards set by the European Court of Justice and which is that we should not automatically monitor citizens. The Social Democrat rapporteur understands that there are many of us in this Chamber who are a little puzzled that it is taking so long.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101510	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101511	In fact, I do not quite understand that, because it is a complex matter. If we were all alone in this matter, one might well ask whether it is not a little strange that Denmark is all alone in the world, but we are not. We are in exactly the same situation as a large number of other EU countries. That is why this is about, on the one hand, what we are doing at national level and, on the other hand, whether there are no common standards in the European Union for how to interpret these judgments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101541	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. After a despriting, we move on to the rapporteur's report. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101605	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The Left can support the proposal to postpone the revision of the legislation once again, but is also reaching where we say that it must now happen soon, because of course Danish legislation must comply with EU rules. When that has not happened before, it is because it is relatively complicated, and we have also seen that other countries have had difficulty in finding out how to put the rules together in a way that, on the one hand, provides the police with investigative tools which have proved extremely beneficial in a number of cases where this has been the destructive evidence to various criminals and, on the other hand, ensures that there is no mass monitoring of all of us. So it's complicated matter, and that's why we understand that it's been necessary to spend time trying to get these rules in place, but our patience is also running out of time, but that's all we had to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101716	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And after a dissipation, thank you for that, we move on to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101742	Thank you, President. In line with the previous rapporteur, I must also state that the Danish People's Party is in favour of doing our utmost to combat terrorism and extremism and so on, and we know that the data that is logged in general is incredibly useful to the police and intelligence services in the fight against those who want Denmark to feel bad and bad. So even though it's kind of a weird situation to be in this way of prolonging and prolonging, we're on to vote yes in this round as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101822	There are no brief comments. And again we go for a despriting further thanks for that. Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409101841	Thank you for the floor. So here we are again to the annual postponement of the revision of these illegal logging rules. These are rules that we have known since 2016 are contrary to EU law, because they constitute a violent interference in private life, and that is why I might have been able to reuse the speech I had written for the delay in 2020, but then not, because something has actually happened. Indeed, on 6 October 2020 the European Court of Justice gave its ruling in La Quadrature, which is precisely the judgment that successive governments have been waiting for, and which the Minister has then used as a reason for postponing a change of rules last year. That judgment established and reiterated the principle of the Tele2 judgment of 2016, namely that general and undifferentiated logging is contrary to Union law, because logging constitutes a particularly serious interference with privacy and makes it possible to create a very precise profile of the persons concerned, and that mass logging can also have a negative impact on the exercise of freedom of expression and pose a risk of abuse and illegal access. However, the new judgment clarifies that the possibility of logging for the protection of national security is not contrary to Union law. But that does not change the fact that the Danish rules need to be changed, because we are not only using the logging to protect national security, but also in relation to many other types of crime. The new judgment itself also says, and it is very important for this draft law that general and undifferentiated logging cannot be maintained on a temporary basis either. The continued maintenance of the existing rules proposed by the Minister is therefore contrary to EU law and is, above all, contrary to the fundamental right to privacy. The Minister has also acknowledged in a consultation on the January judgment that it is not possible to enforce and sanction the Danish rules if the telecommunications companies choose to stop logging. But I think that the telecommunications companies are being put in a rather delicate position because they are being asked to continue. I am well aware that the Minister has put forward a draft for a new set of rules, and I will also sign for that a little bit. However, SF has many questions for the law sketch because the Minister is very much in favour of continuing the existing Danish rules, nor will the general logging be limited to national security only. And it is also clear from the sketch that there is a significant process risk, and I find that worrying. Of course, the police must have investigative tools, but there must be proportionality between the crime and the intervention, and we certainly cannot use it as a reason for mass surveillance of all citizens. However, we will be discussing the outline, and in the autumn there will also be a legislative proposal on that basis, and it is there that this proposal will have to extend the existing rules until we have that legislative proposal. But that will be a no thank you from here. It did, by the way, last time when we discussed this bill. The SF does not believe that monitoring offers freedom, and we cannot support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409102203	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409102249	Thank you for the floor, President. This feels like a bit of a déjà vu, that is, something we've tried before. Usually anniversaries and round birthdays are something to celebrate. It's not today. For not only the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, but now the tenth time the rules on logging are being changed, with a new postponement of the revision. I think you've been equally inspired by Nephew's song again and again, or maybe it's Britney Spears' Oops!... In Did It Again, we're in. On the part of the Radical Left, at least we see it as a scandal that the revision of the rules is now time and time again (and) postponed. So the legal state is complete as foreseen: Illegal logging cannot take place. The Tele2/Watson judgment of the European Court of Justice in 2017 concluded that the basic Charter of the European Union should be interpreted in such a way as to preclude national legislation which, for the purpose of combating crime, provides for a general and undifferentiated storage of all traffic data and location data. In other words, mass surveillance of innocent Danes is obviously not possible. It is the case that we must, of course, correct the practice and judgments that are handed down, and this one is from 2017. In 2017, Denmark was thus convicted as a loser because of the legislation we have adopted at least the practice and announcement we have. We should have gone down the right lane by then, but a majority had bet that the legislation would be changed in the future. This is like driving faster on the motorway, because the speed limits may change next year. Of course, you can't do that. Now the current practice of a new EU decision in October last year has been fully established as the previous times have been again established. That is why we urgently need to straighten out and follow the right lane. That is why the Radical Left cannot support the bill in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409102527	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409102550	Thank you. Mass monitoring of citizens is illegal. The Court of Justice of the European Union established this before Christmas 2016 in a judgment of principle, the so-called Tele2 judgment, and the European Court of Justice of the European Union spelled it out at the time. The Court of Justice already ruled in 2014 that mass surveillance, i.e. the kind of surveillance currently taking place in Denmark through logging, was illegal. Now there is another verdict in October 2020, which merely confirms that something is wrong in Denmark. All the way through, whatever government has been in power, these judgments have been ignored, and now we have the tenth postponement. We have a situation in which the mass surveillance to which the state exposes all citizens of Denmark is illegal, and we now again have a Minister of Justice who does not choose to draw the only logical conclusion: to abolish illegal mass surveillance. In fact, we in the Group of the European People's Party think that this is a democratic scandal. I understand that we have a Minister of Justice who believes that monitoring is the solution to a great many things, but it is by no means, even in this situation. And we think it is deeply problematic on the part of the Enhedslisten that in a democratic society we have such a massive record of who we communicate with, how we do it and how long we do it. We find it unpleasant and unacceptable that in a rule of law we should put up with being monitored without being suspected of having done anything criminal, and I should like to admit that it is a rather complex sense of joy for me and the Enhedslisten that it is precisely the European Court of Justice and the EU rules that we must obviously have to beat Denmark up in order to ensure respect for fundamental democratic principles. However, despite Enhedslisten's relationship with the European Union, it does not change the fact that the sentences are in fact correct. Instead of the illegal mass surveillance that is taking place right now, we must, of course, limit surveillance to people who are actually suspected of having committed crime. That's where I think it's fine, but it's about being a suspect. We must make targeted monitoring and we must have a system that can be set up quickly when such monitoring is initiated, and the existing rules for a judge to approve the monitoring must, of course, continue. In this way, we can have both a teleloging, a mast logging and other forms of logging as technology opportunities are expanded, but this must be done on the basis of the principles that it must be targeted and that it should not be mass monitoring of innocent citizens. In Denmark, as I said, we have mass surveillance of all citizens. It is registered via a telephone mast every time you call or send a text message or some other form of message, and the monitoring exists via the so-called logging notice. It is actually quite simple what to do, I think. It has been said many times that it is complicated, but I do not really think it is. When you get a judgment against you for the second time and you have known, as it were, that this judgment was already coming for many years, and then there is a new judgment which once again confirms that it is illegal, even though six months have passed since the judgment was delivered, it is actually quite logical what we should do. When a judgment comes, we need to correct it. But why is the solution to the fact that the government does not see how the rules should be put in place, that we continue to violate the rights of our citizens? I cannot understand how the solution to this problem can be that we continue to postpone and postpone and continue to violate all of our rights with the mass surveillance that is taking place. The small catch we should make is simply to cancel the logging notice that exists, because it is the one that causes illegal mass surveillance to be carried out. Instead, we need to work on setting up a new system. With the situation we have, where we have illegal surveillance and where a majority in the Folketing simply accepts the state of affairs without annulling the monitoring that is taking place, it is quite simply, as I said before, a democratic scandal. That is why we in the Enhedslisten cannot support this bill for this tenth time either, but it will probably come as no surprise. I believe that we need action now, and I think it is quite simple what we should do, because we should cancel the logging notice we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103034	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103036	I know that it is not the European Union that we are discussing as such, but I cannot help it. Did I hear correctly, Mrs Rosa Lund, that the Enhedslisten here hailed the European Community and the European Court of Justice for being those who guarantee citizens' rights, and should I take this as an expression of the fact that there is a movement on the way in the Enhedslisten to also recognise and pay tribute to EU law as the one who is seriously responsible for safeguarding citizens' rights when Member States fail?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103108	Sir. At any rate, Jens Rohde heard correctly that it is such a slightly mixed pleasure that this judgment comes from exactly the European Union. It is not in this way written in our EU or EU policy, but I would go so far as to say that we have noticed in several places that it is actually the European Union that guarantees rights, among other things. in the field of asylum in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103131	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And after despriting, it's sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103152	The Government proposes with this bill to postpone the revision of the logging rules until the parliamentary year 2021-22. At the same time, the Minister of Justice expects to present a sketch for the future substantive review of the Danish rules in this area. Recording and storing information on speech and Internet traffic is a key tool for the police and intelligence services to use in relation to major crimes. This applies, among other things, to: in the fight against terror and gangs. It should be stressed that it is only in exceptional cases that the information will be used. The police and intelligence services must have a warrant to have them extradited, and then the penalty for the offence must be at least six years old. We believe it is sensible to postpone the revision of the logging rules so that we keep the new rules within the framework of EU law and help ensure that the telecommunications industry in Denmark is not burdened unnecessarily. It is important that the drafting of the new logging rules and the definition of the scope of the aforementioned judgment should take place jointly with the other EU countries and the European Commission. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103315	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and after despriting it is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103328	Thank you. Unfortunately, our normal rapporteur could not be here today, so I have to say that new citizens can support the proposal. Of course, we have suffered double as many, also because it is precisely the European Union. I think it is good that it opens up the possibility that, as a national assembly in general, we do not need to follow the things that come from the European Union, and we really do think this is positive in New Citizens. Now we see how this can just be pushed year after year, and it then opens up that we can probably do that in other areas too. Why would this be special about this? So in this way we actually see this as a good day and a step to get power back from Brussels to the Danish National Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103411	Thank you. And after despriting it is because I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, the Minister for Justice, whom I would like to invite to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103429	Thank you. And thank you for supporting the bill as it stands. Let me make a few comments on some of what has been said along the way. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt acknowledged that something has happened to the new judgment, which is, at the same time, the basis for giving the answer to how it might be that the regulation has not yet happened because the rules to which we should apply have been fluent. After all, the truth is that the European Court of Justice has moved, which means that if we had corrected it early, we would have had some rules that would not be in line with EU law, at least potentially, at this stage. That is why, of course, it makes sense to wait and say: what is the content of the sentence that has unfortunately been handed down which reduces our ability to solve crimes and which makes it easier to be a criminal wherever you are in Europe and which reduces the security and security of ordinary law-abiding citizens of any country in Europe? That is what the European Court of Justice has chosen to lay down as a right. There, it is undoubtedly surprising that the European Court of Justice will not stand on the side of the citizens, but will stand on the side of the criminals. But that is the case, and we must take note of that. We will go as far as we can to ensure that we continue to catch criminals in the kingdom and that we continue to ensure the security and security of ordinary people in this country. And there is no doubt that if we did, as some of the rapporteurs have said, just saying that we are now cancelling the rules that apply, that would undoubtedly be to the benefit of the criminals. At the same time, it must also be noted that there has been some discussion about whether this is something where Denmark has been in a place where we have done something that cannot be done anymore: No, the European Court of Justice is actually saying that if it is a matter of national security, general and undifferentiated logging is possible. I hear no one in here saying that this is a violation of freedom; that it is a problem in terms of surveillance. I hear no one in here saying anything other than that it is really nice that, when it comes to national security, it is quite okay with general and undifferentiated logging. And that also leaves a big gap in the argument that general and undifferentiated logging itself should be problematic. On top of that, when it comes to serious crime, you have to target logging in person and geographically, and it is simply so far removed from reality to place yourself in a place where you say: it is such a tool that we can use. Yes, but it just takes the criminals to remember to call in before they intend to commit crime, and preferably also tell where they intend to commit it. It is clear that if there is ordinary crime, you must not log in at all, which means that there is such complete freedom of play. But when it comes to serious crime, we just have to remember to tell the criminals in the kingdom: remember to call in. For the European Court of Justice, our ability to actually solve the crime that is taking place has diminished. It is clear that this situation is not good, but nevertheless it is what is the main starting point and therefore what we need to find out how to correct it. We will go as far as we possibly can, on the part of the government, to ensure that we continue to be able to combat crime effectively in the kingdom. Now we have presented a draft bill. There is a need to discuss this widely, because I recognise that there are different views on this. But there is also the need for the rapporteurs to reach out to other countries in Europe and say: How do you deal with this, how do you understand the judgment, how do you think the state of law should be organized, and what opportunities do we have to move forward? And that's why it's quite relevant to do this delay again. But thank you for the broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103826	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103830	Thank you. As I hope the Minister has noticed, we in the Danish People's Party support the government's line here and also share the comments and wonders about the emphasis on pursuing hardened criminals that the European Court of Justice has come up with. What makes me speak is that, of course, this is not the first time that the Minister for Justice and I have an exchange on the European Court of Justice, but this is, as far as I remember, the first time that we have agreed to reject the European Court of Justice. That is why, of course, I would like to know whether this is something that we in the Danish People's Party can hope that the Minister of Justice will practise in other areas as well. As the Minister will be aware, I regard many of the judgments of the European Court of Justice as quite illegitimate because they break with the transferred power that we have now given to the European Union, among other things. in the area of welfare, foreigners, etc., and there I would just like the Minister for Justice's confirmation that we can join together in the same punches and punches against the activism of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409103937	We have crossed blades on several occasions, talked and had debates on this, and I think that some of the things that unfortunately undermine the legitimacy of the European Union are the activism of the Court of Justice. It should take it to stay away from that. But that does not mean that we, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt came to say, rejecting the Court of Justice. We are in a legal system and we need to comply with what is now in force. The law in force here is undoubtedly not created by politicians. The law in force here is undoubtedly created by judges. We will have to read and delve into the judgment and find out what the Court thinks, and then we will have to comply with it. What I'm just saying is that in the sense of understanding this sentence, we're going to put ourselves politically where we can, in order to ensure that we can continue logging.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104034	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104036	Now it is the tenth time, I understand, that the revision is postponed. This is at least an attempt to postpone the unpleasantness of having to follow the conclusions of the political conclusions reached by the European Court of Justice. Then I would like to ask: could you imagine the same thing in relation to, for example, The Zambrano judgment, the Metock judgment or some of the other judgments which are of course against Danish foreign policy? In other words, it would be nice if we were here on a common track, where we were now really challenging the European Court of Justice and its activism and attack on Danish sovereignty. Then I only hope that it concerns not only the log judgment, but also others.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104118	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104119	Let me start by correcting a misunderstanding, because it has crept in a few times during the debate or as an underlying premise: it is true that there has been a ten-fold postponement, but postponement due to the activism of the European Court of Justice has only been the last few times. So, for the first time, as far as I remember, it was such that a revision clause was incorporated into the law, so that it was said that there had been too little time for it to work and that we are therefore postponing, and there have been various reasons along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104152	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104155	After all, no one has said in this debate that we should not fight crime, because we are all very concerned about that. That is why it has to be said that the European Court of Justice has repeatedly sided with the citizens. Because it is citizens' rights, that is to say, the clear rights of citizens, that they should not be subjected to general and undifferentiated mass surveillance that is at stake here. So I would just like to know whether the Minister cannot confirm that there are several other countries in the European Union that can comply both with the legislation in force as regards logging under the EU Charter and, at the same time, can combat crime. So one does not rule out the other and fortunately for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104245	There is the misunderstanding that either you fight crime or you do not fight crime. What is at issue here is that the European Court of Justice is making our prerequisites for effectively combating crime inferior and the criminals' ability to commit crime without being prosecuted better. It is an indisputable fact that this is the consequence of the judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104308	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104310	Well, what is the importance of monitoring hundreds of thousands of innocent Danes? Let us, then, take decisive action against those who are actually criminals. That's what's interesting. That's the lead we're gonna pursue. Why insist that it is the innocent Danes that we continue to have mass surveillance and that we continue to have the illegal logging of? That's the essence of this. So there is no difference in the approach to fighting crime among the parties today either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104344	It is being portrayed as if what is happening is that the police could accidentally go in and go back in telephone conversations, in the contents of a telephone conversation I might have had six months ago, etc. That is not the case. In other words, the clear starting point is: if this information is to be accessed at all, then a court order must be issued, so that it is not a matter of logging content through a court. So the premise is simply wrong, i.e. we are all being watched here. No, there's some information gathered here that the police can use to fight criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104417	Then it's Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104419	After all, the minister makes it sound as if we can hardly go after any crime with the new logging rules, and in a consultation that I had called for, the killing of the radio host Nedim and the bombing at the Tax Authority used two examples of cases where logging has been used and where it has been a useful tool. Will the Minister not just confirm that, within the framework of what is called urgent security, it will be possible, in other words, that when a bomb blast occurs or someone is killed, we will be able to go in and secure the information itself, because the telecommunications companies are still hiding the information, at least for a little while, because they need it to be able to bill their customers with them? So is it not true that there are a great many cases that we will be able to resolve in a sensible way, because we can actually obtain the information when crime occurs, and that the Minister is therefore not quite right, that is to say it simply gives free rein to all criminals?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104529	I think that is an excellent argument, so to say: don't worry, we can do logging. I thought that was the problem. Can we make sure it's urgent? Yeah, maybe we can. The problem is that a murder is being committed and we will need to retrieve back-data to find out who has called a particular mast from a particular area, etc., so that it can potentially no longer take place. That's the problem. And if you want to carry out an argument that says that don't worry, we can log, you have actually moved in principle to where you say that undifferentiated logging is a relevant and good tool we need. And that also means saying that the European Court of Justice has then gone wrong, and that is exactly my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104614	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104616	Well, that's not correct. For Austria, it is doing this within the rules, and that does not mean monitoring all citizens, but you enter the moment something criminal happens and then you secure the information you can then get at the time. I agree that it puts a little more effort on the police, because they need to be a little quick and make sure that this information is obtained immediately when, for example, there is a problem. is killed, or when a bomb goes off, but that's fair enough, isn't it? Surely we must not mass-supervise the citizens to an extreme degree so that the police can go in and retrieve the information they need at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104652	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104654	This is getting more and more interesting. Now the point is that when Austria gathers information on all citizens, but they only do so for a short period, it is not mass surveillance. In other words, what defines whether it is mass surveillance is the period in which it must be done. But there is an agreement that undifferentiated logging is okay and a relevant tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104716	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104719	Thank you. Like the Minister, I think this is getting more and more interesting. In other words, where we want to go is the question of the difference between general logging and differentiated logging. And the minister makes it sound as if, if we do as the European Court of Justice asks us to do, we cannot solve crime. The Minister can then correct that in his reply to me. I would like to ask the Minister if the Minister, like me, is not of the opinion that if the police come and ask for a warrant from the Danish courts to monitor someone, they will get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104803	But that is not what this is about. Paragraph 1: I have said that it reduces opportunities. I haven't said at any time that we can't solve crimes. I've told you that it's slowing down the possibilities, and that's why it's helping the criminals. It's just that I'm not getting paid for something I haven't said. After all, what Mrs Rosa Lund is moving into now is the question of real-time monitoring, so to say that we know very well that something might be going on here and would like a ruling to be able to do something. But it's something other than being able to say that we're dealing with a crime that we didn't know would happen. We didn't know he was gonna kill her. We didn't know they were gonna rob the bank. We didn't know that that rape was gonna happen, because they forgot to call and say it. And that is something other than real-time surveillance. Real-time surveillance will continue, as far as I can see, but this is not the central part of the question of using logged information to combat crime. The key part of using logged information to combat crime is to be able to go back once the rape has occurred and has been reported and to say that we would actually like to see who it was of potential suspects who raped this woman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104920	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409104921	And that is exactly why the logging must be differentiated and not be undifferentiated. Because when we do what we do today, we are all always under suspicion of committing something criminal or possibly committing something criminal. And that is what, dear Minister of Justice, is our appeal, so that we cannot all go around and be suspects in a society governed by the rule of law. So that's why the logging has to be differentiated. I also said that in my speech. And that is also what the European Court of Justice is saying, and that is exactly what is being done in Austria, as Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF also mentioned. That is why we find it so difficult to understand why it should take so long for Denmark to conform to the rules when it can be done elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105006	Then we'll get answers from the Attorney General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105007	Well, the premise is wrong. Precisely because it's everybody, no suspects.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105015	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105017	Yes, yes, it is fun to hear that the same left who thinks that we should all be suspected of being sick with corona and having to wear muzzles and mass testing, now means... yes, well, let it lie, but let us look at the friendly opposition here instead. I would like to ask the Minister: has the EU contacted the government and said that this is not going to happen, you need to correct immediately, and if you do not correct, then it has consequences or sanctions, fines, or whatever else you might think of, or you will have a slip of your fingers? Has the EU contacted Denmark about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105056	That is not how EU law works. EU law works in such a way that countries themselves keep an eye on what the legal situation is and comply with it, and there are so many judgments that it must be done within a certain time limit. And that's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105108	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105109	Well, could the Minister tell us what will happen if the countries do not comply with what EU law wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105118	Then, of course, the European Union can choose to take legal action against countries that do not comply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105122	There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. As far as the next item on the agenda is concerned, paragraph 2 has been deleted, but paragraph 3 has the same subject, which is why it is only paragraph 3 that we are dealing with, and it is a motion for a resolution by Parliament on the abolition of the rules of the Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105139	The debate is open. Once the Justice Minister gets the papers straightened out, it's the Attorney General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105202	Then we saved ourselves a little bit of alcohol. I would like to start by thanking New Citizens for having tabled the motion for a resolution which we are debating today. The Publicity Act is something we are discussing at the moment. Only yesterday there was a conciliation on the status of the law, and something has actually happened since yesterday. As you know, the current Public Procurement Act is the subject of a settlement, which means that the parties to the settlement must, as a starting point, agree before any changes can be made. And the parties to the settlement are the Social Democracy, the Left and the Conservatives. As you know, I think everyone is aware of this, otherwise it is at least a good piece of information to take part in the further debate... the Left has now announced that the party wants to change the public law. As I also mentioned in yesterday's consultation, I believe that the Public Service Act provides a fair balance between considerations of openness and considerations of confidentiality. On the other hand, politics is such that it is always conducted in the time, in the place and in the context that there is. In fact, I do not hear the Left saying that the conciliation will be terminated, but if the parties behind the conciliation do not agree on the challenges of the law, it must be taken into account. So, if that is the case, I will try to identify, forward to the summer break, how we can organise a process for amending the Public Access Act. There we must then uncover the parties' concrete wishes for amending the law and what process the parties might see. I will, of course, start with the parties in the conciliation circle, in other words the Left and the Conservatives, but I also think it is fair enough to invite the other parties to a discussion on this subject. That is why I also see that we are having discussions involving all parties that may be interested in participating. Having said that, the motion for a resolution before us is about the ministerial service rule and, more specifically, about the complete abolition of that rule. First a little background: The agreement on the new Public Procurement Act in 2013 sought to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the need for transparency, which is of course important in any democratic society, and, on the other hand, the need to safeguard the confidential space necessary for a minister to be able to exercise the political direction of his ministerial area. In brief, the ministerial service rule is that the right of access does not include internal documents exchanged between the Department of the Ministry and its underlying authorities or between different ministries. This rule applies at times when it is to be expected that a minister has or will need advice and assistance from his officials. However, the right of access still applies to all information on the facts of the case contained in this information and information on external and final professional judgements of certain internal bodies. The protection of the confidentiality of political decision-making processes is not something that was invented by the current public law. Already with the previous public law, consideration of the internal and political decision-making process was something that was wanted to protect. However, the regulation of the old public law was somewhat more random and incoherent than it is today. Before the new Public Procurement Act, certain documents could be exempted from access to documents. This was the case, among other things. documents on legislation exchanged between ministries, but this did not apply to documents exchanged on notices or other policy initiatives. Documents exchanged between offices and departments within the same authority could also be exempted, but if the documents had been exchanged with other ministries, they were subject to public access to documents. Documents drawn up for ministerial meetings, even though exchanged between ministries, could also be exempted, but if the documents had been prepared, for discussion at official level, they were subject to public access to documents. With the motion for a resolution we are debating today, the authors of the motion for a resolution are setting out to completely abolish the rule of ministerial service. Basically, I think it is a bad idea to remove the protection of the confidential space that is necessary in order for ministers to be able to exercise political control over their ministerial area and, above all, in order to be able to develop policy. If we remove the rule, it will create a risk of poorer advice, poorer dialogue and poorer sparring, which in turn will risk a lower, more expensive and more incoherent organisation of our society. So the Social Democratic Party cannot vote no, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution on the basis of which I am a minister. But I am also a Social Democrat; I have actually never been anything else. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105733	It was the government's comment that we got here, I understood. There are brief comments, and that is first Mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105740	Yes, it will be exciting to see what the Socialists say in a moment when they come to the platform. Laughter Thank you for at least finding that the majority behind the darkened public law has now fallen, and the Radical Left is naturally looking forward to the discussions that will take place in this regard. It is gratifying that the Minister will already be looking into the terrain before the summer. I think the Minister for Justice said something very interesting yesterday at the conciliation meeting, namely that the Minister could see some places where the public law could be improved, and there I would just like to hear where the Minister sees the places that the Minister would like to improve in the public law in relation to the conditions that apply, where sometimes journalists are given 20 pages, and then the whole thing is simply crossed in black so that they really have not received anything. So where does the Minister of Justice see the possibility of improving the public law according to what he said at yesterday's consultation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105842	First of all, a statement, but not a surprise, that the Radical Left would like to be involved in the discussions we are going to take. That has been noted. In fact, I believe that, when we move into the field where we are going to hold discussions, it is best that we take them there and not here if we are to agree on what it is that is needed. But I can at least say that I think that the proposal to abolish the ministerial service rule, which is what we are dealing with here, would be harmful.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105913	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105915	I know, for example, that the Minister is aware of what is called the Environmental Information Act, which is another regulation of access to documents, which can be obtained in Danish rules in that area, and I would like to know whether the Minister believes that the access to documents available in that area has damaged the minister's service and whether it has done a great deal of inappropriate in relation to the legislative process and other things. Could it be a direction one went in, or has it made a whole lot of trouble that one has had that law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409105954	As I understand it, but there is, of course, a certain risk that I have misunderstood it, the rules that they follow from the Environmental Information Act are, in fact, the old rules; it is therefore the public law that was in force before the current public law. Those rules were changed because a broad field of talented people was set up to assess whether those rules were appropriate and they came up with the outline of the rules that apply today, and that would be a strange conclusion, I think, to say that then we go back to what was agreed on at least not to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110033	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110039	I sometimes meet people who ask whether it is worth making proposals again, and it can. A year ago we tabled a proposal in the New Citizens' Party to abolish it; now we are putting it forward again and there has been a move in the political picture. This underlines the fact that we need to be persistent and we can actually move something, even if we do not have the mandates to vote it through. I would like to ask the Minister something, because what we want, even when we present this motion for a resolution, is not to deprive every minister of a confidential space at all. And it is the case that ministers will still be guaranteed a confidential space when it comes to specific guidance from ministries and from agencies and all sorts of other things. So can the Minister not confirm that there are a large number of paragraphs, 20, 22, 23, 25-29 and 33, which in fact also provide such protection for ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110135	But that protection would be insufficient in order to ensure that there could be the dialogue that is necessary for a minister to be able to have with his duties. What will be the consequence of moving down this road is that you run the risk that officials who are in dialogue with a minister will adjust their dialogue to what might be left behind, so that free thought development would not be as free as it would otherwise be. I used the example of yesterday's consultation that, if you mean this in the extreme, New Citizens could open their group meetings or put forward their internal e-mails, because the damage would be nothing. I think we all know politics is not working in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110226	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110230	In fact, I remember that it was SF's group meetings that they wanted to open completely yesterday, but fair enough, now they want to open new citizens' meetings. Before adopting Section 24, the official work also worked. I don't think anyone would say that there was no confidential room before this, and that's where we say that the confidential room will still be there. And we actually have more faith in the office, apparently, than the minister has. In fact, we believe that an official work can easily operate within the new rules that a Parliament would choose to say they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110307	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110310	No, in fact, if the proposal is pursued, the authors of the motion put the official work in an incredibly delicate situation; then the official work is forced to expose various political options, and so in reality it is done to limit the ability of the official work to provide the best advice which can produce the best results without any consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110345	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110350	Thank you. Then I completely avoided asking the Minister whether he would call for negotiations, because yesterday the Social Democrats and the Left managed to block the SF's proposal on precisely that. So it is a good thing that we are here today with a result, and we can then thank New Citizens for that, in other words that we could continue the debate. During yesterday's consultation, the Minister said that Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen recommended that information on epidemics should be made more public. I would just like to ask the Minister if there is anything to prevent us going beyond that and actually building on what the Freedom of Movement Commission has said, which is precisely about doing something about the ministerial service rule and the rule of parliamentary politics plus a few other minor things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110441	I heard that New Citizens took credit for what is happening today. We now have the benefit of hearing the rapporteur's speech by the Left, but when I have moved since yesterday, it is only because one of the conciliation parties has moved, and therefore I cannot remain standing. I also recognise that a great deal of effort has been made, not least by the SF, to keep this agenda going for a long time. So once I've moved, it's kind of because political reality has moved. And politics is made in such a way that you take what you stand for and keep it up to what you stand in, and then you decide what you do, and the situation we face has moved with the Left's message. That's why I've moved. Can you imagine that you can completely remove the rules? Yeah, you can do that. Can one imagine, as I tried yesterday, saying that there should also be openness in the Folketing and not maximum secrecy? Yeah, you can do that. No one was interested in that, I could understand when it came to themselves, neither SF, Radical nor New Civil. But you can imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110543	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110545	As we also discussed yesterday, there is probably little difference between being at the head of the central administration and a large political apparatus and being the SF, which is primarily responsible for its electorate. There, however, I think there is a slight difference. However, I would like to meet the Minister in the middle, because we can simply decide to remove the rule of parliamentary politics, and then there will be the possibility of access to the things I exchange with the Minister. I think that must be a good offer then. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110617	But if you want to pursue that thinking, you cannot hide behind it by saying that we are just a parliamentary party. Then we have to say: then we would like to expose ourselves entirely to our electorate so that they can assess us in the best possible way on the basis that there may be. So I have to say that it is simply a double standard when you stand there, where you say that you have to remove the responsibility of ministers, no, I mean the rule of ministerial service, not the responsibility we can talk about that too; we may be able to talk about that more about it, but we do not want to be looked at in the cards ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110649	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. And then we start with the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409110715	Thank you for that, President. I understand from the Minister that the government does not support this resolution, and I would just like to say on behalf of the Social Democrats that we do not support the resolution either. And now I would like to say a few words about why. After all, the Minister has mentioned the latest statements from the Left today and has, in this way, also explained and argued why we are in a new situation in relation to having to have discussions on the existing public law. What we are then discussing more specifically here is the rule of ministerial service, and we have had that conversation several times in other places. We have also had it in this Chamber. I believe that this is the third or fourth time in my time as a legal rapporteur that I am standing here on the platform and helping to discuss this issue. That is, of course, because it is essential. On the one hand, there is a need to take account of openness and openness in the decision-making processes and decisions taken by the country's leadership, and on the other hand, there is respect for the fact that, of course, ideas and political opinions must also be exchanged in a space where there is a mix between a government and an official work serving the government. And that's the room we're talking about. And when we have legislation today that exempts some of that space from public access to documents and thus transparency, it is also about time changing. Today, information is much more frequently exchanged, including electronically, between a department and the corresponding agencies, and that is also why the review we saw of the Public Service Act now six or seven years ago also took account of technological developments, where there is a very significant change. I myself have had the pleasure of serving as an official first in SKAT and most recently in the Danish Treasury before being elected to the Danish Parliament. And in this way I have experienced how to get orders from a department, create background material and form politics on behalf of a civil minister at the time, Mr. Karsten Lauritzens, wants to implement a government policy and how things can get up in the department and come back again, be printed and changed along the way. Does this mean that we are compromising on professionalism or on the role of the official body and on the virtues and duties of the official body? Not at all. But this means that an official work is, of course, loyal to a government and that there can also be professional disagreements along the way. There is, of course, access to the professional, material basis on which decisions are based, but it may well be excluded from the public interest when things change along the way. And if you open it and say that you have to have full access to it and almost as quickly as possible, then that room will move elsewhere. It is not the case that it ceases to exist, because the need is there. But when it happens that it moves elsewhere, my view will be that it will thus become a greater democratic problem, because then you do not have the same writing and openness about it. That room gets opened every once in a while. After all, we have the tools here to exercise parliamentary control over the government. You can set up a commission of inquiry to open that room. We have most recently seen it with the Greens' Committee, the Committee of Experts, which has looked at the first part of the corona management, which opens that room and looks at what kind of discussions there were. This may be quite interesting, but it may also reveal some of the disagreements that have existed between the various agencies, and also expose to open debate what kind of e-mail was between a director and a head of department. How could it be understood and interpreted? And it has to be said that some of the e-mails and some of the views have led to a very significant public debate. I think that some of what has been interesting with Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen has been that an email was exchanged between the Head of Department of the Ministry of Health and a director of the board who has been quite colored in the media for a long time. For Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen gave a different interpretation and said that the interpretation, the understanding that was in the public was wrong, because in that way he read the mail very naturally, so that a Head of Department helped his head of government to deal with and respect and acknowledge the need for the operation of a government. And it can then be said that it was perhaps very good that we had Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen shed light on it. But it also serves as an example of the question: if you constantly take out the fragments, will we have a more qualified political and public understanding of the work that is going on? I don't think we do. I see time's up, so I'm gonna make it up to you. That is why it is essential to be able to have that space, but at the same time also to be able to exercise parliamentary control in which that space can sometimes be opened up. And you can do that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111236	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111241	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur praised the report produced here by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which has been extensively debated and which has come to light in view of the fact that there has been very good access to a number of documents. You have had access to more than usual, and it is, of course, just as they recommend that you can get it more, because the interesting thing is that those who have had access to the documents you cannot normally obtain after access to documents say that it would be useful for others to have access to it too. Well, then, sir. Jeppe Bruus does not agree that this is a good example of why access to public documents is important, since it can lead to such skilled and professionally prepared reports that can serve the public interest and that can create debate and transparency about what has been decided?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111346	I think I'm dealing with it a little differently. However, if the view is that it would be a good idea to completely remove the ministerial service rule, which I have also discussed with many journalists, I have said that it is fine, then journalists can have full access, and then we can be confident that journalists can assess how the interpretation should be, what is confidential and what is not confidential, etc. I would just say that then we will not have a stronger democracy and a stronger political decision-making process in a government, but a weaker one. Then there may be areas of interest and that is why we also supported the setting up of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, where, of course, there may be cases of such great and significant interest that it is essential to get things clarified, and that is where I think Grønnegård is a good example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111428	Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111433	I don't know if I understood the answer. But does this mean that the rapporteur thinks that the more important a matter is, the better it makes sense that public documents can then be accessed? Because it might as well be a direction one could take if that is what the Social Democratic Party is proposing: that the more important a matter is, the easier it is to have access to public documents. So I should just like to know whether that was the proposal and what was just behind it or whether it is because you see that you can benefit from the experience of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and that it can be disseminated elsewhere in terms of access to public access to documents and public documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111507	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111510	Now, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I say that the concrete negotiations are safe for us to leave to the Minister for Justice. However, my comment was more an example of the fact that, even with the existing public law, we have parliamentary tools which enable a committee of inquiry or a committee of experts to shed light on cases, and we do not use them in all kinds of contexts, but we do use them if there are major, important matters that we wish to see clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111533	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111537	It is true that we can set up a commission and other things, but it is terribly expensive and terribly laborious, and we could save the people's government and thus the citizens a lot of unnecessary tax dollars if you removed this paragraph 24. I would like to ask the rapporteur: are there any other clauses in the Public Act which actually protect the room that the rapporteur is talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111605	After all, the rapporteur had an exchange with the Minister for Justice on that very question, and the Minister for Justice also replied to it, namely that removing Article 24 and Article 27, which I understand is contained in the proposal, would have implications for that space in terms of being able to have a ministerial service. And when it was changed no later than six or seven years ago, it was precisely about the documents that flow between different authorities or between a department and its agencies. And that is an expression of the fact that things are evolving. The first public act dates back to 1984. There was technological development in a completely different place. That is why this legislation has followed technological developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111642	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111645	If you look at section 23, this applies to internal documents which have not been submitted to outsiders and documents developed in the context of economic and political negotiations. In other words, when there is to be practical political advice to the Minister, it will continue to be excluded. What we are talking about here is that citizens and journalists can gain insight into who has made the decisions. It is not a question of depriving anyone of the political opportunity to act or of a minister not being able to obtain guidance or advice. It's a mistake as to what section 24 really is. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: do we have concrete examples of the need to have Article 24? So far, all they say is that it is necessary, but does one have a concrete example of why it is necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111726	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111729	I do not entirely agree with that interpretation. The world isn't black and white. It is not the case that you have a document with all the factual information and another with all the political ideas. All the real foundations lie in access to documents, but things are often linked in a political process. That is what section 24 takes into account, and that is what will disappear if you remove it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111754	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111757	Perhaps I do not entirely agree that there is insight into all the actual basis. When, for example, it doesn't work. As regards the document from the University of Copenhagen, which in the minkskandalen warned a little about the medical basis, one could not actually keep the document under the ministerial service rule or some of the other paragraphs that we normally discuss. It was kept secret pursuant to Section 33, which is a general clause which allows you to exempt any document at any time if you think it is important enough to keep it secret. There are, of course, things which are real, but which cannot be understood. Is Mr. Jeppe Bruus agrees with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111856	Yes, I fully agree with that. There may also be facts that have to do with the security of the realm or something else that you cannot gain insight into.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111902	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111907	It was nice to have it confirmed, because it actually means that there are things that you cannot gain insight into. But sir... Jeppe Bruus did not agree with the questioner that it is quite essential to gain insight into such a document? I understand that Special Branch and Defense Intelligence are a completely different story. I agree there that there is a need to be able to keep it a secret. But that also means that at least there are other clauses in the Public Act that we need to look at, otherwise we simply do not achieve the aim of ensuring insight and publicity in the administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409111950	I simply do not know the document in question, so I cannot answer it in concrete terms. But more in principle, as far as the public law is concerned, it is not chiseled in stone tablets and carried down from the mountain. After all, it is a law that has been made by people in this Chamber. In the previous session, or before the last parliamentary elections, the most recent parliamentary elections, probably not the last, were also attempted to hold a debate on the public law, and it was quite a long way off. There was a result that could not be achieved because some parties emigrated from it. There was also an opportunity to look at these things, so it is not the case that these paragraphs have not been discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112028	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That's why we're grateful to Mr. Jeppe Bruus. After despriting, we move forward in the rapporteur's line. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112051	Thank you. Almost ten years ago, we were in front of what we call the V-Ret, which consists of the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. We sat in Karsten Lauritzen's office at the time and distributed cases between us. And then Mr. Karsten Lauritzen in his charming North Jutland, which I won't try to imitate: This public law, Jan, you're a lawyer, wasn't it for you to snatch it? And I'm saying, yes, it sounds exciting, and I'd like to, it's an interesting case. And then he says to me, "You might want to be prepared for a little bit of pressure." That turned out to be the understatement of the decade, because there is a law that has had the attention of the fourth state power, the press, that is the law of the public. I have stood in the balance with the other conciliation parties, not least the SF, which has really been at the forefront every time the Public Service Act was defended, and the Radical Left, which is also... No, it is not true, because it has been difficult to see anything other than shoe soles on the rapporteurs of the SF and also the Radical Left. But the Left and the Social Democrats and Conservatives have certainly defended the law. I would like to do that today, because there was a need for a change in the public law at the time. The old law was all the way back to 1987, and the tooth of the time had been eating into it. It had to be a new law. A lot had happened. Technological developments, interaction between ministries and agencies, etc. was of quite a different nature than it was when the old Public Act saw the light of day in 1987. However, time has shown that there are things in the public law that are, we should call it less appropriate. During the corona crisis, we have seen a government that has had to make decisions with the Folketing very, very quickly, and hurry is, as you know, a load, and this, compared with a public law that has kept key documents secret, has been really, really unfortunate. We have seen it in the mink case, where there were some allegations that this cluster-5 virus could spread to humans and could make that the future vaccines could not be used, quite seriously indeed. Later it turned out that it wasn't so bad anyway, and the papers that showed that it wasn't so bad anyway were in the Ministry of Health, but we couldn't get them; the public couldn't get them. A huge problem. We also saw a press conference on 11 March in which the Prime Minister claimed that the authorities had recommended that everything that was unnecessary should be shut down. It didn't turn out to be right. It turned out that this was not the recommendation of the health authorities. It was not the recommendation of the authorities that all unnecessary activity should be shut down. It was a political decision that went beyond the recommendations of the authorities. We could not get an insight into this, and this is also very problematic. It's not something I'm just saying. This is something that Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen, professor of public administration, has stated in the statement we have asked him and others to make. There are problems, especially with the ministerial service rule. So the Left has proposed, also in the light of the criticism of the law that has been raised for many years, that we now sit down together and amend the law; that we follow the recommendations of Grønnegård Christensen; that we amend the ministerial service law so that fewer documents can be exempted in the future. Not every document which could at some point, perhaps theoretically, be put on the table of a minister should be included. Only documents intended directly for ministerial service shall be used. And the actual information, the factual, professional opinions that come from officials and agencies and experts, etc., must therefore be made available to them to a much greater extent than is currently the case. That is why we on the Left today have announced, correct, not that we are abolishing the conciliation, but that we are asking that we should have negotiations in the conciliation circle in order to change the public law so that we can learn from the unfortunate examples that have been and can have a better and more appropriate public law put together, where we also recognise that there is a need for a confidential space. It is there in politics, it is there in journalism and source protection there is there in political parties. There is also no access to correspondence, etc. That's how it is in a lot of relationships here in life. But we must find the right balance and the right balance is not present today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112556	There are requests for short remarks. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112600	Thank you. I welcome the fact that the Left has moved forward because, as the rapporteur rightly says, there have been some examples here which call for a political decision to be taken on this. So I would very much like to acknowledge that. And there is no point in this proposal that there should not be a confidential space. We think that there should be too. We also believe that there are a large number of clauses in the Public Service Act which actually ensure this and still ensure that there is a concrete service. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he shares the view that there are actually paragraphs now which help to give a minister a confidential space.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112644	Well, there certainly is. There are plenty of paragraphs that ensure a confidential space • e.g. in court proceedings, the other party cannot simply request access to the correspondence with its client, even if the client is a public client. I used to make good use of that as a lawyer myself. So, of course, there are a number of other provisions in the Public Service Act, but there is no provision that is in the same way as the ministerial service rule covers this area. In other words, it is worthy of recognition that there needs to be a rule of ministerial service, and that is why it cannot be simply abolished. But the minister service rule, as it is today, is far too extensive. It includes far too many documents and it includes far too much information in those documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112725	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112728	I am pleased about that, because it also includes things which have nothing to do with ministerial service, but which relate to communication between agencies and others, where it has been absolutely central that we could see what has happened, for example. around corona to be able to see what has happened between the Danish Health Authority and SSI and others. So that is the way I agree. I heard yesterday that the Left said "and I'm not quite sure where the Left lays down that this should only apply to the epidemic area." But I could understand from the rapporteur, even this morning, that there were also problems elsewhere, so that it is a general change that we want. It's just to get it ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112801	Well, then, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen has at least been misheard, for it must apply to the epidemics that we want to follow the recommendation that comes from Grønnegård Christensen. But it must also go further, in other words a general relaxation of the rule of ministerial service. We are also in favour of extending the principle of public access to documents, and there are other things that we would like to change, such as the time that goes by when we send a request for access to documents and that we actually get it. We can see that, compared with the seven working days, it is more the exception than the rule that it is being observed. So there are several things we need to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112835	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112839	Thank you to the rapporteur and, above all, thank you for your cooperation with the Left in the field of openness in the current epidemic Commission, where we, as parties, have together concluded a manifesto of openness, and there has been a demand for and demand for openness in general in calculations and so on. Compared to that. So thank you very much for that, and especially thank you for the announcement now from the Left and I almost want to go up and hug the Left on the platform, but this must not be done in the situation we are at the moment about the fact that the majority of the current Public Service Act is now gone. Thank you very much for that announcement and for the clarification that it is not just ministerial service in relation to epidemic areas, but a general relaxation of it. That is why I would also like to ask the rapporteur: what about such a thing as the general clause, where we have seen an example of a report and a medical study from the University of Copenhagen on mink, which has been exempted from it? Is that something the Left wants to take a look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409112946	Yes, indeed. In other words, general clauses are dangerous because, by their very nature, there is a very wide scope for interpretation of what can be exempted and what cannot be exempted, and that is certainly one of the things we think there is an opportunity to discuss, and then I look forward to us being able to hug again, and it may well be to celebrate, for example, a successful revision of the Public Service Act. I do not believe that we will have all the parties involved, but it is also important that there is a broad circle behind such important legislation, and also preferably broader. However, I also agree with the Minister for Justice, who said at yesterday's conciliation that a majority is a majority, so it is in a democracy. But if we succeed in reaching a broad agreement, that would be very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113028	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113033	It is absolutely essential to have a broad agreement in this area, because at least there is something that we in the Radical Left have found to be a real shame. Of course, all the majorities are valid, but in terms of public administration insights, it would be strong if there were a broad majority that existed, almost whatever might be of changing government compositions. It's pretty important that it's not just something that changes. So I fully agree with that and sign for and acknowledge the Left's ambition to also look at other things such as the general clause and other elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113112	I guess that's nothing more to say than thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113115	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113118	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Left for paving the way. Although the Left was a little slower than the SF to realise that something had to be done about the Public Service Act, I think it is very good that we can join forces here, and now my colleague Mr. Kristian Hegaard to the general clause. However, I would like to ask another problem in the Public Procurement Act, namely the obligation to keep records. It applies only to specific cases of decision, and that is one of them. One of the reasons why, for example, we should be able to do something about it. in the mink case, not quite able to figure out what happened when an employee from the Ministry of Justice called the police, who then ends up doing wrong actioncards. There is no note, as the Minister has replied, and it is actually the same in the Instructor's Commission, where we cannot quite understand what kind of oral advice has been given. We have a lot of testimony about what it was like. But that is one of the things that makes it really, really difficult, so will the Left also help to change the obligation to note?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113223	I cannot answer 'yes' on a stand-by basis. Well, it's very tedious to have to sit and make notes of all your phone calls or of many of them, it's just very practically difficult. We could imagine if it was ourselves who had to sit and make a phone note every time we had a phone call. It's almost impossible to imagine. On the other hand, if you provide important information in a telephone conversation, it is, of course, something that needs to be noted so that you can see what has actually been agreed. However, as a lawyer, I have always advised that all oral agreements should be written, because it is better and easier afterwards to be able to document what has actually been concluded by agreements. So thanks also to the SF for the rose, and of course I very much regret that I thwarted SF's timing with the Social Democratic Party at yesterday's meeting, but the most important thing must after all be that we get some changes to the Public Service Act through.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113325	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113330	Yes, I fully agree, and everything is forgiven in relation to yesterday. It sounds as if the Left is not entirely opposed to looking at the obligation to note as well, and if we could make a tightening up there. So I shall look forward to having some discussions on that. So thank you for the effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113351	We are always happy to look at everything and discuss everything, and I hope that we will, as I heard the Minister of Justice say, start discussions with a wider circle of parties, and then we will see how far it can go. But that is where I think we should discuss all that. We ourselves have a number of proposals on where we want to change, but that is not the same thing as not being able to come up with good ideas from other parties as well. Of course, we are open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113413	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left. And will the rapporteur just get ready for the next one? Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113440	Thank you, President. It is hardly a great secret to many that the Danish People's Party, even when it introduced the last and today debated amendment to the Public Service Act, was opponents, and so we are still away, and therefore we welcome any change. We have discussed this here before, at the appropriate request, whether there was a difference between how the administrative and public law was seen, in relation to whether one belongs to a party that has a tradition of being close to power or not close to power, i.e. whether one has a history of being in government. And that seems to be partially denied at least today, by the fact that the Left now seems to be rocking, unless, of course, it is merely an expression of the fact that it is considered so unlikely that at an imminent time one will be part of a government again, but no matter what, we welcome the new developments very much. Well, maybe it's just that it's because mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has become rapporteur and is in favour of a different line in his party, and it is quite reasonable that this should be the case. We will certainly look forward to the negotiations that have now been announced, and we will step in with fresh courage in the hope that more information can be brought to public knowledge, so that we, both in the Folketing and also in the so-called Fourth State Power, can keep an eye on the executive and how things are running in the ministries. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113627	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409113646	Thank you for the floor. In fact, it is a little interesting that we started the day with a debate on monitoring, in which we at least have a government which believes that it should be maximum when it comes to citizens, but in this debate the Minister is certainly not so excited that we are monitoring the political decisions. After all, the minister has said from the platform that with surveillance freedom is increasing, but what is freedom for citizens is not freedom for the authorities, one must understand. There's a limit, and it goes by the government itself. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those who have helped to pave the way for us to now have a debate on the Public Service Act. This is mainly due to New Citizens who have made this proposal and who may have contributed to it, I do not know how to get the Left out of the bush and also to demand changes. It is certainly very good that we now have the opportunity to discuss together how we can create a better public law than the one we have today. I myself tried yesterday, with a motion for a resolution, to instruct the government to convene negotiations to renegotiate the Public Service Act. As you know, we did not succeed, but we should not cry over spilled milk, and I think it is actually a very good day because we now agree that we should make changes. I was first, I must be honest and say, a little bit afraid that the Left's proposal was merely a matter of discussing a greater understanding of epidemics, because it is a small limited corner. However, I have now understood so much of the debate that the Left wants a somewhat wider debate on the Public Service Act and more amendments. I think that's really, really good. That is a good basis for further discussion. We recognize in the SF that there may be a need for a confidential space to discuss political solutions in, but we also think that once a solution has been established, we should be able to see the opt-outs and additions that have been made. There must be an open debate and we must be able to print the various proposals. As a ruler, one must be able to tolerate being looked at in the cards, but one must also be able to measure up to the decisions that one has then made. In fact, I think it was a pretty absurd idea when the Minister, at yesterday's consultation on the Public Service Act, tried to convince us all that there should be no insight into the government's decisions, because there is not in the SF group meetings. In fact, I think that there is a pretty big difference between the two. After all, the government has a responsibility for the management and management of our country, and the SF does not have it in the same way. We are not sitting on the state apparatus, as the government does, and I think that increases the demands a little bit and, with all honour and respect for my own party, it is not because we have the power to decide what things in the country should look like, at least not alone. Nor do we have an official work of many hundreds of men and women, which we can get to figure things out for us if we want to pursue political objectives. However, as I said earlier in the debate, I would like to strike half the damage with the Minister for Justice, because we are actually willing to abolish the rule of parliamentary politics, so there is public awareness of what we are exchanging with the minister of mail and paper. So we have no objection to being accountable for this. So, yes, there must be a clear call from the SF to abolish the ministerial service rule, which is what the proposal we are debating now is about, but also the parliamentary rule and the general clause, that is to say this section 33, which gives fairly wide powers to keep things secret. We are also ready to introduce an obligation to provide documentation rather than a obligation to note, which only applies today in decision-making cases, and which is a challenge if, among other things, we do. will have insight into cases such as the mink case, the instruction case, but also the Tibet case, which now again runs for full curtains. It is not because, for example, we are not. We did not ask many questions in the Tibet case; we just did not get very full answers at the time. Now it is being rolled up by a commission, and it certainly turns out that there is something to come for. A separate point is that when it becomes difficult to follow these political processes, sometimes it ends in expensive commissions because you find it difficult to see who said or did what. We think that is a challenge. So I think I just want to thank you for the debate. I am well encouraged and look forward to further discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114144	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114150	The SF rapporteur now mentions the proposal that the SF had on yesterday and that we discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I should be right about that, sir. Mr Jørgensen also said, of course, that we were not ready to support that proposal yesterday, but were waiting for the debate today. Having said that, I would really like to question the argument that there is a very large difference between what is going on in a government or in a ministry and what is going on here in the Folketing. When we have committee meetings, for example. in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and there is a camera on it, we have one type of debate in my experience, and when the cameras are turned off we have a more free debate, in which we can actually also allow ourselves to bend towards each other. And that is because we can also try things out in a more free space, a confidential space, and we also have respect for each other, so that we do not abuse that space to each other afterwards. I think this is a very good example of how the same argument could also be used and say that there should be cameras on those committee meetings all the time. That room would move somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114254	Yes, but that is not an argument to prevent any insight into the decisions that have been taken and to verify the actual basis. There we can see, and I also mentioned this in my speech, that there are infinite possibilities of failing to pass on the actual basis, and that is what I think is the problem. I recognise that one must have a political space, but once the political decision has been taken, one must be able to see the five options presented to the Minister as solutions, and then one must have the opportunity to have a debate on it. It may well be that the Minister chooses, what can one say, a slightly less solution than the best solution, but one must still be able to stand by that goal. I think most people will understand that if the best solution, which was the one you should choose, costs many billions and you cannot afford it, then you have to choose a different level. But you have to be able to have that debate. You have to be able to see what the Minister was presented with. So I do not really think we disagree that there should be a political space. In relation to the fact that things are moving somewhere else, I would say that there must still be some writing about the things that are actually being done. I am well aware that there can be talk of things in corridors and in all sorts of other places, but that is not an argument for not introducing more publicity into the administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114412	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus. No, there are no follow-up comments from Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114421	Well, I would also just like to thank the SF rapporteur. After all, I have been able to see that the Public Service Act has never been such a matter for the SF since we started together as rapporteurs in this area many years ago. But thank you for your speech. Thank you, too, for pointing out here that the fact that, as a citizen or journalist, for example, you cannot have access to some documents does not mean that no one else can see them, such as commissions, courts, the Ombudsman of the Folketing, who can have full access to documents. And thank you also for drawing attention to the Tibet case, which was and is really, really bad and something that certainly should not be repeated. So I would not actually ask a specific question, but it is more just a recognition of SF's speech and examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114524	Thank you for that and thank you for a fine debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114525	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114527	Thank you. I would like to ask something, because now the Social Democrat rapporteur brings this up with the confidential space, and I have not heard the SF portray that there should not be, nor have I heard that New Citizens have said this here. However, can the rapporteur not confirm that there are already a large number of paragraphs in the Public Procurement Act, 20, 22, 23, 25-29 and 33 which actually protect if there is to be any concrete guidance to a minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114550	Well, I mean, there is ample opportunity to get the political advice that you need. What I am saying is that we must always be able to have an insight into the actual basis. And, unfortunately, there are also a large number of exceptions in the public law at this time, which I think we could work together to do something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114607	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114609	We fully agree with that, and that is also why we are putting forward the proposal, because there are quite specific problems. It's factual, obvious problems that are about this. Now the rapporteur also mentions the fact that a committee, for example. The Committee on Legal Affairs must be closed, but is it not also true that there is a record of what decisions have been taken so that people can see what decisions have been taken, i.e. when decisions are taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114629	Yes, that is quite correct, and it actually makes me reflect a little about the fact that there is a slight difference between the rules in a state administration and the rules in a municipality. In fact, there is much more publicity in a municipality because there are detailed descriptions of agenda items, and this is much more transparent in many ways. It comes naturally, and you can keep up with that if you are very concerned about local politics. And the rules of government which apply to municipalities do not quite apply to the state administration. So in this way I think that yes, there is certainly room for improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114703	Thank you. There will then be no further brief comments to the SF rapporteur, so the rapporteur may just prepare for the next rapporteur. Thank you for that. Kristian Hegaard of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409114738	Thank you for the floor. The speech I had actually written suddenly became completely out of date last night Normally the resurrection is something that belongs to Easter, but here a few days after Easter it still seems that openness has the prospect of a possible resurrection in the Danish Public Act. Thank you to the Left Party for that announcement. Thanks also to the Left and other parties for the joint fight for openness here in the coronatide, a manifesto of openness and openness behind calculations, because transparency is an important principle of democratic control. And it hasn't always been easy at this time. At the meetings of the Epidemics Committee we sometimes get proposals during the meeting. Let me make one thing clear: the closure law is for shops, not documents. Let us pull the cover-up curtain aside as soon as possible and change the public law. Radical Left is ready anytime, day, night, weekend. Whether the coffee is cold or hot, you just call. We're ready; let's get started! The Greens' Committee, the Freedom of expression committee, the anti-corruption unit of the European Union, the Greco Group, have all said in the last year and a half that there is a need to change the Danish public law, and they are not alone in that debate. For example, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has had access to all documents, and on this basis they have considered that it is relevant for many more people to have access to that openness. The ministerial service rule, the parliamentary politician rule, general clauses, more publicity. Now we're going to look into everything. With increased access to public access, the transparency of political decisions and confidence in the political system increase. As an open country, it can never be in our interest to have a darkening law of secrecy. We have seen examples of the action cards of the National Police, the NOST reports, the medical examination of minksmite at the University of Copenhagen; even factual documents have been difficult to obtain. We have also seen examples of access to documents given to journalists. Access to documents is perhaps so much said, because it has at least been papers only with black lines, and if not, it was because it was potentially serious cases, then one could laugh a little at it. There have also been rules in the law on time limits, namely that access to documents should be granted after seven days. One would almost think that this was an exception because the vast majority of the time has seen countless examples of these deadlines being exceeded. This clearly shows that the secrecy is interpreted expanding. Spring is well underway, we are in the middle of April, so it must be time to withdraw the blackout curtains and let the sun and openness point to the documents in the public administration. I think it was last year that the Minister of Justice in this Chamber said that with surveillance freedom is increasing. In that case, freedom must also be increased by monitoring more public documents. The Radical Left is looking forward to further progress and we also support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409115152	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then we have reached the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. No, I am sorry, it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409115236	Thank you. It is not the rapporteur who is here, but the rapporteur's substitute. Mrs Lund could not be here, and I have promised to express her views, although after the Minister's announcements and the Left's rapporteur speech I had to correct a few commas. We would like to start by expressing our great pleasure at the fact that today we are dealing with something as exciting as a sensible resolution from New Citizens, and this is even the second time, because we discussed a similar proposal in 2019 from New Citizens, but unfortunately there was no majority in favour of that. There is not a word in the proposal or in the comments from the New Citizens' Party that we disagree with in the Enhedslisten. So we can give our wholehearted support to the proposal. It has not puzzled us in the Enhedslisten that the ministerial service rule became one of the major problems of the public law passed by a worryingly broad majority in this Parliament back in 2013. In the Enhedslisten we were very critical during the legislative process and asked a sea of questions where the then Minister's reply suggested that precisely the ministerial service rule and other problematic clauses of the bill would lead to a much greater secrecy in the public administration around the political process. Since 2013, the then broad majority has started to crumble, as we are hearing today. Parties that have been in government in Denmark for a short or long time have fallen from one by one. This applies to the Radical Left, and it applies to the SF. The Conservatives have also wanted the Public Service Act to be renegotiated, and the Liberal Alliance, which in the meantime has been sitting in a government that defended the current law of secrecy, has come back on the transparency team with the rest of us, and exciting: today perhaps also the Left. Thank you for that, and welcome home. That's nice. There has been a tendency that it is the parties of power that have wanted a law of secrecy. For all of the last 100 years, either the Social Democracy or the Left have been in government in Denmark, and when one of the two parties has had a period of opposition, they have known for 100 years that they were once again in government when the majority changed. Clearly, this knowledge has not automatically increased the will for openness, and unfortunately there is no indication that the Social Democrats are ready to change their basic attitude to the Public Service Act. But what are you so afraid of? Once legislation has been adopted over and over again that affects citizens' privacy, because we have to monitor more and more or log telecommunications information or something like that, the explanation is always that if you have nothing to hide, you should not be afraid to be watched. But there is, in fact, a legitimate reason why you don't want others to keep up with you in your private life. But when the government has to have access to hide all sorts of things from the public, it is evidently entirely legitimate. The government sits on mandates from the Folketing, which is elected by the population. The government must look after the interests of the people and the people have the right to know what is going on. In a democracy there must be full transparency when it comes to what the rulers are doing. How else could democracy be trusted? We have already seen, during the corona crisis, how more people have become insecure by the rulers, because many feel that there is a great deal of secrecy about the decisions being taken. And what happens when people feel thrown out of power? Yeah, they'll stop being part of the community. Then they come out and make their own rules, drop their support for the common guidelines. If you want to have power, you also have to accept that you are going after the nails, and you have to be able to stick to that, because I hope you have nothing to hide. I am sure that, on behalf of our rapporteur, Mrs Lund, I can say that the Enhedslisten is very much looking forward to being convened for negotiations on the revision of the Public Service Act. We really look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409115648	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409115704	Thank you, President. With this resolution, new citizens are proposing to abolish the rule of ministerial service in the Public Service Act. We do not think it makes sense to remove the ministerial service rule from the Public Service Act without first discussing what should replace the rule. The ministerial service rule is just one element among several. That is why we are proposing to negotiate a change in the law on public access to documents as a whole. We are still away in the conciliation, we remain in the conciliation, but we are calling for new negotiations on a new public law. Transparency is an important part of our democracy. We want the media and citizens to have more insight into the political processes, but at the same time there must also be room for a private space where different considerations can be discussed. We believe that these considerations are best ensured by creating a new public law. The new Public Procurement Act must both provide greater transparency and allow more targeted protection of the political process. When we sat in government, we tried to change the public law and replace the law of ministerial accountability with a less restrictive provision, but we did not succeed then. There were a few parties that left the settlement. Moreover, the basis of the VLAK government also stated that we wanted a new public law, and that remains our ambition. We cannot support tampering with an element without knowing what to replace it with, but we support calling for negotiations on a new public law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409115859	Thank you, Mr Conservatives' rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409115916	Thank you. I have been sitting in here in the Danish National Assembly for about 2 years now, and if there is something that is clear to me after the two years, then it is that there is something raving wrong with the way things are going on in here. Yes, there are in general a number of areas, but now it applies equally to the public law. And there is no doubt in my mind or in the mind of the New Citizen that there we have a problem with section 24. We have proposed abolishing it here. We believe that this is the best and the right solution. But we can also see that the Social Democrats and the government have been very opposed to this, as have other parties; some have felt too bound by a settlement. But as happens sometimes in politics, it moves; then it is not static. And even though there are some parties that are dissatisfied and the government yesterday at our open consultation was a little unhappy that we were about to debate this again, it turns out that when you make things over and over again, then you can move something into Danish politics. Things aren't static. A few weeks ago, we also heard that the Danish People's Party voted in favour of a corporate tax credit, that is, fantastic news. So things can move in Danish politics, and we will not stand here and take credit for it at all in New Citizens. There have been lots of parties knocking over this. In fact, I also think that, at this stage, it is right to recognise the SF and the Radical Left also a recognition for the Enhedslisten, which was not at all with the agreement reached in 2013 but which, in relation to the way it was administered, could subsequently see that this law has simply not been administered according to the intention that was actually laid down in the political agreement that actually existed. And then the only thing responsible is to say that then we will have to act on it, we will have to make some changes. That is why we stepped out of the conciliation, what I think was sensible, and said: could these changes be made? Now we have come to where the Liberal Party of Denmark has also come to the realization that there are problems here that we need to address. There are things that are not connected with section 24 and there will still be a room for ministers to get a concrete service from their duties, which they must of course have. But, of course, as a people, we also have a right to be public with regard to: who makes the decisions, why have they been made, and what might be of interest in them? So it is a day of joy today, and we will not take credit for it in New Citizens. We can only see that there is a slip here. And I believe that once we have lifted the lid, one can say, on this box here, there is no turning back, and then we end up with really having the abolition of section 24, and it is to the delight of the honourable media who are watching, it is to the honour and joy of the Folketing, but most of all it is to the delight of the people out there, who hopefully now have better opportunity to look at the rulers in the cards, i.e. those rulers who are not even elected by the people. So we look at this very, very positively in New Citizens and we will gladly come to the negotiations that the government hopefully calls for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409120224	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409120241	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 13 April 2021. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, who had just to make sure that the Minister was here too, it is a good idea to justify the question to the Minister. But here is the reason for the question: Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409120319	Thank you very much. I walked right past the minister, so I had to see if he was here. We are quite busy at the moment, but this should not mean that we do not deal with some of the things that are also required. That is why the Danish People's Party has asked two questions today. The first one, called F 41, is generally about the lack of practitioners that we have throughout the country. And the reason is that 56 per cent. of the country's practitioners have closed down the entry of new patients, and unfortunately it is also evident in some parts of the country. By 2020 all practices in Lolland Municipality and Vallensbæk Municipality had closed to the entry of new patients. It's also something we see spreading. In the past it was much in areas that are sparsely populated, as we call it, but gradually it has also come to the capital and other places where you may not have attracted some doctors. There are approximately 130.00-140.000 who are without a permanent doctor, and we can see that recruiting is extremely problematic, and as I said, it is not just in sparsely populated areas. We have been focusing on this for many years, and also under a previous government, where a plan was made to counter it. But we must also face up to the fact that it is not enough. We in the Danish People's Party believe that more needs to be done, and we also believe that new solutions should be found. We do not want the government to come up with a plan that comes up with that challenge and without mentioning and using a duty. I look forward to the Minister's reply and to a debate with the other parties on how we can resolve this together for the benefit of all our citizens and for the benefit of the practitioners who want to work out there, where you have close contact with the individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409120540	Thank you for the explanatory statement, and then it is the Minister: here you go to the Minister for Health for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409120601	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the callers for this question debate to the Danish People's Party for raising this issue again, which is of course an important topic for all parties: lack of practitioners and what actions we have to address the challenges. I would like to begin by giving a brief assessment of the current medical coverage challenges. This is by no means a new problem. We must look each other in the eye and say that so far we have not managed to solve the problem. Some things have been done and I also have respect for changing majority voting and so on. I've done something that's had a great effect. But there is nothing that really really has solved the problem, at least not in the short term. Because we can see that there are medical coverage challenges in large parts of the country, and if you take a snapshot from here at the turn of the year, per. on 1 January 2021, 56 per cent. of the practitioners across the country have closed to the entry of new patients. So it's 56 per cent. And if you compare it to what it was like in the past, it is an increase, because in 2014 it was 40% that had closed to the entry of new patients. But there is also an improvement, because if we go back three years, until 2018, it was 69 per cent that had closed to the approach, so it was 69 per cent, and now we are 56 per cent, so the figures suggest that the changing majority they have been during that period and the effort that has been made has had an effect. But that has not solved the problem at all. And where is the problem? Well we can see that there are special challenges with medical coverage in North Jutland, the Capital Region and parts of Region Sjælland. For 2020 all practices in the municipality of Lolland, but also in the municipality of Vallensbæk, according to PLO figures, had closed to the entry of new patients. And right now and here there are medical coverage challenges across the country, and in the longer term we can then see when we look at the estimates that are made, where you count together, how many people are medically trained and how many are retired, and then make such estimates that we get an increasing number of specialists in general practice. In the long term, this will improve medical coverage. But there will still be challenges in distributing doctors to the whole of Denmark. And of course, primarily for the areas where we can see there are problems today, i.e. North Jutland, Lolland, parts of Zealand, but also parts of Copenhagen where there are problems. I would like to stress that no Danes stand or have stood without general medical care. That is one thing, but it does not say that the situation is good enough. It is, of course, the case that citizens who are unable to be associated with a practice with a PLO doctor are covered by a regional medical clinic or a private, tender-driven clinic. It's important to take along. In recent years, as I mentioned, a number of initiatives have been taken to improve medical coverage in Denmark, and if you go back to before the election and I would like to start there, namely in February 2017 all parties of the Danish Parliament signed an agreement for better medical coverage based on the recommendations of the Medical Protection Committee. So there are a number of initiatives that have been implemented against this background. There are, for example: introduced a two-tier dimensioning of the Bachelor and Master's degree programme in medicine, among other things. a. with a view to limiting the migration of medical students from West to East Denmark. The current agreement on general practice has also taken steps to strengthen medical coverage. For example: a differentiation of the basic fee has been agreed, which increases the fees of doctors in health coverage-related areas and doctors with more treatment-intensive patients. And you have to be honest and say that sometimes the two things are actually connected today. It is our clear ambition that all Danes should have access to their own general practitioner, and that is, no matter where you live in the country. I have only heard the parties of the Folketing support and agree with this, which is why we must also be honest with each other and say that there is still a need for new measures and more measures to improve medical coverage, not least here in the short and medium term. The government, together with Danske Regionser, has decided, in connection with the agreement on the region's economy for 2020, to increase the number of main education courses in general medicine with 50 additional courses in 2020 and 50 additional courses in 2021. Negotiations on a new agreement for general practice were launched at the beginning of 2020, but the parties, and this is the Practice Doctors' Organisation and the Region's Pay and Tax Board, have still not agreed on an agreement, and they announced before Christmas that the negotiations have been paused. I expect the parties to resume negotiations very soon. Because the government, among other things, has... medical coverage and better senior schemes were key priorities in the collective bargaining. Then it is also quite clear to the actors here today in the Parliament, and I think it is also for many Danes that we in the government have proposed a duty of service, in other words a new tool, as a suggestion for a further concrete solution to the problem with regard to doctors in general practice. I am well aware that this proposal has encountered a great deal of resistance around it, but I think the problem is great, that we cannot only choose the solutions which only excite all places, we have to tackle the root of the nettle and do something that is perhaps unpopular in certain circles, in order to solve a problem which is a social problem. And that is why we have put that proposal forward, and that is why we continue to think that it will be one of the important tools that should be on the table when it comes to solving this problem. But, of course, I am also listening to what the Danish Parliament is saying, and I am also looking forward to today's debate on the element I heard, Mrs Liselott Blixt mentioned in her introduction, so of course I am also listening to what the Danish Parliament's parties are saying, that is logical, but I stand by the fact that this is a proposal that we have made, and I believe that we are not in a position to put away instruments at this stage. On the contrary, we must have the instruments, the tools, on the board, because the problem is real in many parts of Denmark. After all, a duty will mean both that we get more doctors out in general practice and that we get the doctors distributed to those areas of the country where doctors are currently lacking. We have also said on the part of the government that concrete models and solutions for ensuring that all residents are guaranteed a practitioner close to their homes, regardless of where they live, will of course be discussed with, among others. The Medical Association, with the PLO and with Younger Doctors. We will call relevant parties for discussion, and we remain open and responsive to professional input and political input and proposals, which will contribute concretely to addressing the challenges in both the short and the long term. We ourselves have a number of proposals, I have mentioned some of them here from the platform today, but I also believe that with this proposal we must be able to agree across political parties that solutions must be found both in the short and in the long term. And in the light of the discussions with the parties, we will take initiatives in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121406	Thank you. One brief remark from the rapporteurs is now available, and the first to ask for it is Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121415	Thank you very much and thank you very much for your reply. The minister says it's not everything that cheers. Nor did it in 2013 when the Social Democrats actually went in and made the agreement that could not be drawn, and it did in fact mean that there were a lot of practitioners who stopped. So I hope that you have taken it with you, that you have to make sure that you take the doctor's organization with you. But the most important question I would like to ask the Minister for Health is whether the Minister for Health is working to ensure that every citizen can have a permanent family doctor as we know it. I know it can be difficult, but for the Danish People's Party the goal is to get to where we have a doctor who knows us. Then we can see how far we go, but is this something the Minister of Health wants to work for the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121509	Yes, it is, and I think it is so important part of our healthcare system in Denmark. It is a real problem that there are so many parts of Denmark where what should be a matter of course is not a matter of course. So it is a major and important objective to ensure that citizens have access to their own doctor. Then Mrs Liselott Blixt mentions the family doctor, as you know. I am also a family father, and we have family doctor, but this is not always the case when I come up with my children and have to have a vaccine or have seen something, that we just know the doctor who is then in rotation. In the medical center that we are in, there are the doctors we know, and then there are some medical centers that have some more employees. I think that's just fine, and it gives some flexibility and some opportunities to get some time and not sit in line on the phone in the morning for a while. So I think that is just fine, and I think that is part of the definition that is being mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121618	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121620	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. In many areas, of course, we are in agreement, the Left and the Socialists, also on what are the tools that need to be in the toolbox. After all, there are also tools that we do not think should be packed down there, and this also applies to the so-called duty proposal. And I would like to challenge the Minister a little, because what is this green young doctor supposed to do in general practice? In other words, as I understand the proposal, it is a question of a younger doctor having to take six months into a general practice and being such a foal of a general practitioner. What exactly is the minister planning for this green young doctor to do out there? On top of that, it may well be against the younger doctor's own will. What exactly is the intention of the person concerned to do in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121725	There is no doubt that when you listen to the PLO and perhaps especially to younger doctors, there is a great deal of resistance. This proposal has been there since the beginning, and I acknowledge that there is that resistance, and we have also written in our proposal, that we will introduce it here through a discussion with these organisations to find out if they cannot see themselves in this proposal too. I think it is quite reasonable, and I also think it is wise and sensible that that is why we have suggested saying to our doctors: right now, friends, we have a problem, a national social problem; you have got the education here, and we need you, and thank you for taking that education here, but right now and here we need you to use some of the things you have learned around. And then Mr. Martin Geertsen about how much they have learned when they have completed the clinical basic training before they get independent work, and there they have learned a lot, but I fully agree that it is as a part of going out and not being independent, but that one will then be in an existing practice. That is one of the things we want to discuss with the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121831	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121833	Thank you. I was actually going to ask another question, but since the Minister himself talks about duty as a way of solving this problem, I think it is appropriate to ask the Minister's position on the doctor's own proposal, namely that practice training should be extended by 1⁄2 years. This would create much more continuity, and it would also live up to some of what medical students themselves point to as a good solution to the same problem. As I can see that I have time for this, perhaps I could ask one more question: how does the Minister think that you might be able to promote other health professionals in medical practice? For nurses, midwives, psychologists and all sorts of others, a slightly larger medical practice could be envisaged, which could also deal with some other health problems and thus also relieve the burden of medical practice. Could it not also make sense to think that part in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409121939	Yes, it certainly could. I am also going to meet with these organisations again, and I think it is positive that there are actually quite constructive and, for me, really well-prepared and well-meaning proposals on what we can do. I accept that, but there is something I need to see in the concrete proposal to extend the practical training by 1⁄2 years. I'd like to take a look at this, but the challenge for us is, of course, whether it's enough to solve the problem. I believe that we have a problem here in the Danish Parliament if, in two years' time, when elections are to be held again, we are going to meet the Danes again and this problem is still unsolved and is still at its peak in terms of what is important to discuss, i.e. if we have still not managed to resolve it. That is why I believe that the instruments that need to be available and that the last one mentioned here can also be added to the text we need to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122041	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122044	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. This is an important issue which we all agree must be resolved; it can be heard when all parties talk about it. Now the Minister himself mentions this with duty, and the Minister said something like that, now we have given the doctors this training, and then they must also use what they have learned. I would like to hear from the Minister two things. Firstly, I would like to know whether it is not true that we are already asking doctors to come out in different places and to use what they have learned, so that in the course of their training they do not have complete self-determination over where they should be. Secondly, I would like to know whether the Minister can mention other courses because all courses have been paid by the state; my education is paid by the state, by all of us, where we ask people who have graduated to do something specific before they can choose for themselves how they will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122126	If I can mention it, you ask. I'm so nervous about bringing something here. Well, I mean at least that I have had friends who have worked in the defence and who have been distributed in different places around Denmark. They have also been trained in defence, and at least they have not had free choice on all shelves. It is simply because we have a problem and we have been asked by the people through now two successive elections, the last two parliamentary elections, where it has been a huge theme, whether we cannot solve this problem. And there I think only I have heard parties say: we want to solve that. And we will do that, but with regard to what should then be of tools on the table, it is not enough to solve it in 2030 or 2035 where we can see that there will be more completed training it is a long education we are talking about here. It also needs to be solved here on the short and middle track, and there we also need to be ready to roll up our sleeves and use the tools that don't just spread joyfully everywhere, and say quite frankly and openly: We need you now and here in Denmark; it's a short period of your life, but we need it now and here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122232	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122235	Thank you. Actually, I'd like to hold on to the same thing with compulsion. One has an education which means that students are to a large extent moved around in connection with their medical education, but not only that they have plenty of clinic time in the course of the course, because when they are finished, they must in clinical basic education, which is typically a place where they are moved around, depending on where there is space, and subsequently they must be in an intro position. Does the Minister think that's fair? If it is the case that you want another six months to be added, does the Minister not think that it can be problematic when they have started an education in which there is already a lot of movement, to add more mobility, so that it can actually be a deterrent to apply to medical training when you have to move so much? At the same time, there is also the problem that they will then become specialists six months later than they would otherwise have been because they extend training, and that also poses a problem at the other end.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122345	Thank you very much for that question. In fact, I think it describes the situation very well. For it is already the case today, and it is quite correct, as Mr. Per Larsen that part of the training implies that because there are different elements, you will be moved around the country before you are a qualified specialist. There is already a great deal of that today. It has been presented in some places in the public debate as if it were completely new and that it has an element of coercion that is quite different from what we have now and here. That is not quite true, because now and here we have a situation where there are exactly the same elements in relation to different parts of the training, namely that you have to go around different places in Denmark in connection with your thesis etc. That, then, is what we are proposing to expand somewhat more, because we need them now and here to solve a specific social problem. I have heard that doctors are not satisfied with this and therefore I look forward to discussing it with them, but I cannot, of course, advance that discussion now and here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122457	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122500	I agree entirely with the Minister. It is a re-run that keeps going over and over again, and now we have had a great day today so far, and now negotiations have been called for the revision of the Public Service Act, and that is something that is really positive. Could we not have the same good, constructive approach from the Minister? I know there must be great health reform and all that, but let us now sit together when the Minister invites us to debate the problem of medical shortages, and then we sit down and have a thorough debate on what we are getting the figures on the table, and then we will see if a political agreement can be reached so that it does not become a fight for the next parliamentary elections. I fully share the Minister's view that there is no reason to do so, because the citizens have the expectation that we will resolve it here instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122545	I did not take part in the previous debate, but thank you for the minutes of the previous debate in this Chamber. I look forward to reading about it in the media during the day. Now we have to see what the Folketing will decide today, but now we have debates in the Parliamentary Assembly, and now we have to see what a text of adoption we will end up deciding on, but I would certainly like to have the opportunity to meet and have a run with the various parties. Right now, we have this collective bargaining, and I think it would be a good idea for us politically not to go in and have discussions while it is going on. So I think the smartest thing would be for us to think about and see when it's gonna be right. However, I agree that it would benefit if this proposal would be one in which more parties could see themselves in wanting to take responsibility for a solution. And not only a solution in the long term, although it is good enough to resolve it in the long term, but also in a slightly more short and medium term.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122646	In this round, you only have one brief comment. No one else has asked for brief comments to the Minister, so we now move on to the debate and the general rules for short remarks and thank the Minister, who is just getting ready for the first person to take the floor. The rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409122731	Thank you very much. Thank you for your reply. We probably all know the doctor who remembers you from when you were a child, or the doctor who followed you when you were pregnant, and when you had the baby and came to the examinations; the doctor who knew you and knew something about your background; the doctor you had met when you were sad or when you had mental problems; or the doctor who has seen the patient who has bruised and knows what it is because it has been talked about. These are some of the things that we think are important... that you have a trust and faith in the doctor you come up with. It is clear that there is an acute problem or, as the Minister was talking about, comes up and needs vaccination, so it does not matter who is behind the syringe. It may be a nurse, and it may also be a doctor who is out for a short period of time. But when you talk about the hardships of life and about issues where you come into areas that you might find a little difficult to talk about with a whole new person, that is where it becomes difficult. That may also be one of the reasons why you don't always catch all the diseases that we can see you don't get to the doctor in time. We in the Danish People's Party are aware that it will be difficult to say that all citizens in Denmark must have the old family doctor back, but we can set it as a goal. Now I have often heard in here that when we talk about things in the field of health, we have set targets to say that this is what we are striving for. Couldn't we try to get the old family doctor back? It is one who is there more than a few months or a half or two years and who actually knows us and where it can therefore be a much better consultation, and he may also be able to take care of more patients. That is also why we have raised this question. Over the years, I have been around various clinics talking to many practitioners and have also had many good conversations with the organization to hear what it takes. And I also remember 2013, where a lot went wrong, and where a majority in the Folketing pulled a lot over the heads of the doctors who were out there. I talked to many doctors at the best age who actually closed their practice; some went to Norway to work, and some played golf. And that's what we have to do about. All the parties went in and helped lift it when we got the medical coverage report. There we got something lifted, and maybe those are the numbers you can see shining through. But from the Danish People's Party we also took it up when, before the election, we were looking at a health reform that was almost many years ago. Then we also looked at many of the things that we still think are applicable if we want more doctors. And we do not want a model of duty, because it has some challenges that do not just open up the access of new patients. There we should look at how we can get an approach of new patients who also stay there until they die that they have the same doctor as they come to. And we do not get that by imposing a duty. Some of the things that we have pointed out are that I think it was the SF's rapporteur who also talked about it: moving some of the training time into general practice, where it has been in the past, so that you can sort of get out and feel what it's like to have a general practice and, as the doctors out there say, it's wonderful that you have these patients in the vicinity and know them; you know Mrs. Hansen, Mr. Jensen, and who else is coming. These are some of the things that we believe could be beneficial. But we also believe that we should look at the provisions that exist. Some have been tested with good results. In North Jutland e.g. After all, it was done that the region made an agreement which helped to finance half a nurse, so that the elderly doctor stayed for a few more years. But that legal basis was removed many years ago. There was a legal basis in the metropolitan area, where the practice staff could also be financed in order to help the elderly practitioner. That legal basis is gone, too. And these are some of the things you can do right now. So we think there are some things you can do here in the short run to keep some of the elderly and attract some of the new ones. Then I can see that the time has passed, so I will read out a proposal for adoption, and it is on behalf of the undersigned, Martin Geertsen from the Left and Per Larsen from the Conservatives: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that there are still medical coverage challenges in large parts of the country and that a majority of practitioners have closed the access of new patients. The Folketing also recognises that an increasing number of specialists in general practice will be able to improve medical coverage in the longer term, but that action is needed here and now. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to create financial incentives for more general practitioners to recruit more staff and thus to have the opportunity to open up access to new patients so that medical coverage can already be significantly improved. • V 103).
ParlaMint-DK_20210409123325	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then the next rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409123358	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate on medical shortages in Denmark. It is for me to see one of the most important tasks in the coming years in the field of health that we ensure good medical coverage throughout Denmark. Inequality in health is about several different things. It acts among other things. There is also the fact that there is too much difference between what kind of health care you meet, depending on where you live in the country. That inequality is our job to get rid of. At the moment, we know that according to figures from the PLO this year, there will be over 150,000 Danes who do not have their own permanent doctor but who are instead associated with a tender or regional clinic. In some municipalities the entry of new patients is completely closed; in other municipalities it is very close. It is of great value to have one's own regular practitioner. It creates security and trust, and a doctor who knows you and your history also has better opportunity to discover when something is wrong. Knowledge is therefore not lost in tradition, as if every time you meet a new doctor, where knowledge is at risk of being lost. Before the elections, in 2019, we said in the Social Democratic Party that it is a bottom-up task to provide better medical coverage. It was an important part of the health issue that we also presented before the elections, and in the understanding paper that was made in connection with the presentation of the new government, it also states that in the context of a future health agreement, a determined effort must be made to ensure more practitioners throughout the country. We started the task right after the elections in 2019. In the context of the economic agreement with the regions, a total of 100 new main training courses in general medicine were set up in the period 2020-2021, so that in the years to come we will have more doctors trained in general medicine who can get out to work. This is a good start, and in the long run it will ensure more doctors, but it will not solve the big problem. This year and in the years to come, the problem will be particularly great, and that is why we also need measures, which will work in the short term. I do not think there is a simple solution or simple solution or a single handle that we can turn on, which then solves the whole problem. We have to do several things at the same time. In the Social Democratic Party we have proposed a duty of service, which you are all aware of, for newly trained doctors, so that after their basic clinical training they will have to work six months in a medical practice in an area of the country where there is a shortage of doctors. We think this is right and fair. But, of course, we are also very happy to listen to suggestions from other parties and others who have opinions on this, on how to ensure that we resolve the problem and ensure medical coverage throughout Denmark, not only in those parts of the country where people are least ill, but also in those parts of the country where people are most ill and where doctors are most needed. Unfortunately, the Coronapandemic has taken up a great deal on 2020 and also on the first half of 2021, but hopefully we will soon be so far ahead that we can jointly tackle the task of solving one of the major and important tasks of our healthcare system, namely ensuring medical coverage throughout Denmark. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I will read out a text for adoption and you will be ready and bright ears and it will come now: Proposals for adoption The Parliament recognises that there are still medical coverage challenges in large parts of the country and that a majority of practitioners have closed down the access of new patients. The Folketing also recognises that an increasing number of specialists in general practice will in the long term be able to improve medical coverage, but until that happens it is also necessary to provide medical coverage with publicly owned regional and licensing clinics, not least in the outermost regions. The Danish Parliament recognises that the government and Danske Regions have decided to increase the number of main education courses in general medicine with 50 additional courses in 2020 and 50 additional courses in 2021. The Danish Parliament believes that it is crucial that the forthcoming agreement on general practice focuses on solving the medical coverage challenges. Parliament notes that the government will call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations to resolve the problem. • V 104).
ParlaMint-DK_20210409123843	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. There is just one brief comment to the Socialist rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409123854	Thank you very much for your speech and your concern, as do the rest of us, and for your wish to convene the parties of the Folketing. We'll say yes to that. I would like to know whether the Socialists have other things in the drawer than duty. One question would be: if we send a completely newly trained green doctor to Nakskov and we get twice as many patients to that doctor, does the rapporteur think that the doctor will stay there? Or will there just keep coming a new one, and who will ensure that the training takes place? Is that one doctor down there? Is that what you want to do? Don't you want to do other things so you can attract others? So, what other tools are there in the Social Democrats' drawer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409123943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409123944	There are, after all, a great many things I said in my speech. You have to do a lot of things at once. In fact, something is also about gaining time. For example, in the Region of Zealand, in which both I and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party come from and live, we can see that the problem is very urgent, and perhaps in two years' time alone, in the Region of Zealand alone, there will be 100,000 citizens who do not have access to their own medical practitioner. So just gaining time can help us really well along the way. It is therefore a matter of various measures to ensure that some of the doctors who are there can take perhaps six months or a whole year more. Well, every year helps us to get new doctors out. The fact that in our own region, the Region of Zealand, there have been regional clinics helps to remedy this, so there is a great deal that we can do to gain time and to remedy the problem while we then need to train doctors. And it is not really enough to train enough doctors, and that is what is part of the point here. It is also important that we train doctors where they are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124053	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124055	But is it not just to give the citizens who live down in Nakskov, on Lolland, in the whole Region of Zealand a worse treatment than others? That is what we are doing by saying that there will be duty down there, rather than listening to some of the doctors who say: we can expand our clinic. But who's gonna pay? Nobody wants to. Well, then there won't be anything. There you could go in to do so, or you could say that we ensure that there is some maternity allowance for many of the female doctors. Wow, maybe they can stay longer. Or you could do something for the older doctors right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124131	Today they are receiving worse services and worse health services. They do that down at Lolland. They do so at home with me in Kalundborg and Odsherred and in Holbæk and in Slagelse. Every place where there is a shortage of doctors, you get worse service. So this is a tool among many other tools. I do not claim that a duty can stand alone or solve anything alone, but it helps to ensure more medical care. It is not the perfect or optimal solution, but it is a tool to support medical coverage in the areas of the country where there is a shortage now and here. Then we should remember that a great many graduates, and this applies to all areas, end up settling down where they take their education. So this is also about getting more people to realize that there is actually quite wonderful and beautiful, for example, on Lolland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124221	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124223	Thank you. I just have one brief question: when will the call be made for the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124233	I'm not sure I'm the right person to ask when the government calls. I represent the Social Democratic Party from this platform, so that is something to ask the government. But I'm sure the call is on the move.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124245	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124247	No, but now I only had one question for the minister, and then I thought you'd be the second best one to ask. You may be a little closer to it than I am, but I can ask the Minister when I walk past him when I have to go up and speak from the platform. Then we'll see if we can get a date on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124258	Yeah, that's a good plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124300	Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124305	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Now this is a lot about the really acute problem we're in the middle of, with a medical shortage. And the concept of urgency can then be stretched out, because it has actually been a problem for a very long time. According to the forecast that the PLO is working on, we are going to have to have some 5 000 practitioners. We have 3,300 at the moment. What do the Social Democrats think of the situation that we will need even more doctors in the future if we do not make a massive effort to train more practitioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124343	After all, this is a debate we have had before, also at the request of the Conservative People's Party, and with a desire to train more people. Of course, we must always ensure that when we do this, some money is put on the table. It costs something, it costs a lot of money, and it is money that we have to invest, because more doctors need to be trained. What is always important to have in that discussion is that the rapporteur knows very well as well as nordjyde that it is essential not only that we train enough doctors, but also that they are trained so that we ensure that they are where we need them. At the time of medical training in North Jutland, it was very, very brave and ambitious and progressive that one insisted on it, even though one met enormous resistance politically and healthily around, because it helped to provide better medical coverage in North Jutland for the benefit of all of us, as well as a new nursing education in Holbæk, helping to ensure nursing coverage in North West Zealand. So it is absolutely crucial all the way through that we focus not only on training adequately with doctors, but also on getting people to where we need them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124454	Thank you. Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124456	Thank you. We are very pleased with our medical education in Aalborg, and it came, among other things. in view of the fact that at that time there was a Conservative Minister for Health who had that ship put into the lake. So we're really happy about that. Now the rapporteur mentions the issue of medical education, but does not the Social Democrats think that this problem is so important that it should be absolutely top priority in our health care that all Danes have access to a doctor who they know and who knows their patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124533	I can say that as a non-northjyde, but as a West Zealander I am also pleased with the medical education in Aalborg, because it helps to ensure that we can solve this with medical coverage throughout the country. I do not know what is the most important thing, but ensuring proper medical coverage is at least one of the most important tasks to solve in terms of ensuring good health, in terms of getting rid of inequalities in health and in terms of ensuring security and closeness and proper welfare throughout Denmark. I believe that it is one of the key issues in our future health work, in addition to the management of corona, that we will resolve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124611	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124613	Thank you. And thank you for your speech and, above all, for the adoption text, in which at least the concept of duty has not been included, but the rapporteur takes it into account in his rapporteur's speech anyway. The problem of duty, as I see it, is that it has the character of coercion, and that is how it is perceived in medical circles. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: what motivates doctors most to look around in relation to general medical practice in the future? can choose to do so and that, on the other hand, the problem can be solved by extending the course of training in medical practice to, for example, one year, so as to create both continuity and ensure that there are also more trainees out at the same time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124710	It's very different from person to person. The young newly trained doctors who come in these years have quite different dreams, needs and desires than the generation of doctors that they replace. And in many cases it is women who are being retrained, where the generation they replaced was men, and they may have some other desires to join some health-care communities around. Many may dream of doing some clinical research alongside or being able to attend a medical clinic or have a medical practice, while at the same time being allowed to do some clinical research in the local hospital. There may be many different things that motivate. One thing that can also motivate, in terms of getting away from finding it only exciting to live in Copenhagen or just outside Copenhagen, is that you realize that you actually have some really good and fantastic opportunities to live outside the city. So getting an eye on what's around can also help motivate. In fact, I find it most exciting to make sure that now I go over time again that people see what opportunities there are and are motivated. I find it very boring to motivate with money • I think it is more exciting to look at how to motivate purely professionally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124833	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124835	Thank you. It has a little character of saying: It stings a little at first, but you'll be happy about it. You keep sticking to it: if only we do it, and if only you try, you'll be happy about it. I just do not believe that this is the way to motivate people into a lifelong work as a general practitioner. So should we not put that proposal in the garbage bin once and for all and then for posterity try to look at what can really motivate more people to want to try out common practice? Because I agree that this is a challenge that we must address.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409124916	I understand that this is not something that has aroused absolute enthusiasm among my colleagues or anywhere around the medical community, and certainly not among the doctors who are in the big cities, but I think it is a sensible and good tool. But that is not the case, and it is quite clear in the proposal made by the Social Democrats at the time that we are locked in a belief that this is the only thing that works. We're kind of open and focused on the problem. We want what it's all about to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125001	Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125004	Thank you. I just have one question. For the rapporteur is right to say that it has not aroused total enthusiasm in this Parliament and out there among doctors, so I would just like to know if there is anywhere, in other words beyond the Social Democracy itself, where this proposal has aroused enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125021	So, I would say that it arouses more enthusiasm out there, where I live and move, in the West Zealand, including among health professionals, than it does in here. I think that where the shoe is pressed in relation to the lack of a doctor, there will probably be more support for it. You can see that we're under pressure, and we can get these doctors to work longer and a little longer, but at some point they can't do it anymore; then they'll leave, and then we'll have those vacant medical positions, and then we'll be in a lot of trouble. So where you really have your hand on the hot plate, I think, or I know that you are more prepared to use some tougher tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125112	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125114	Thank you. That is certainly true, but just because you have a tough tool does not mean that it is a good idea to use it. We have also learned this in the past with the epidemic, by no means at all. That is why I am pleased to hear the rapporteur say that this is not the only tool that Social Democracy has in the drawer and that you are willing to look at other tools. I look forward to further cooperation, because this is a problem we need to resolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125137	That is quite right, and it is an addition we have to our proposal that we made at the time, that is to say, if someone makes a better proposal that can do the same or that can do more, we are also open to it. It should of course be a great inspiration to every party for any suggestion that if someone comes up with a better idea, one should not be so stubborn that one holds onto the old idea, but rather just be prepared to say: Hey, there was something better; we just take that. And you shouldn't be too ashamed or ashamed of that at all. You just have to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125207	Thank you. Now there are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125228	Thank you. As good colleagues have already said in the past hour, there are challenges in getting practitioners to the Danes close to their place of residence. The problem is so extra large in the more sparsely populated regions of Denmark. In fact, I believe that this problem will be further exacerbated by the fact that in the years to come we will probably be giving priority to much more tasks in what we call the close health service. It goes without saying that it requires the training of more general medical doctors and thus also, ultimately, general medical practitioners. The situation is serious. Good colleagues have also sketched out the figures before me. A total of approx. 130,000 Danes today without their own private practitioner, and PLO, the organization of general practitioners, estimates that it will soon rise to more than 150,000 Danes without their own private practitioner. This is not only due to demographic shifts, but also to the fact that at some point general practitioners, like all of us, are going to retire not because I myself am about to do so, but at some point we have to do so and the medical association's own statement is unfortunately clear. One in four practitioners today is 60 years or more, and by 2025 more than 900, or 28 per cent will. of the current practitioners, be 65 years of age or older. It is an important priority for us, just as it is of course for all parties of the Folketing that all Danes, wherever they live, have easy and equal access to health care, including to general practice. That priority can only be met by several practitioners. I believe that a wide range of initiatives must be taken to counteract medical shortages, both in the long term and in the short term. In the Left we have therefore also gone to negotiations on the health reform announced by the Minister on several occasions, and in which I believe this will end up being parked on a target to ensure as good and stable medical coverage as possibly possible. This is probably not an objective that surprises many people, because it was also we who proposed, when we were last in government, an additional 100 new external numbers and an increase in the number of educational positions in general medicine. And, of course, we continue to do so. Having said that, the training of more specialists in general medicine also presupposes that the training positions are actually filled and that they are carried out, as well as good geographical coverage depends on where doctors eventually choose to settle and work. I am convinced that we are creating the best possible incentive for each doctor to be educated, or to settle in the less densely populated areas of the country. As we have suggested in the past, there is probably a need for simply to take a number of things that could be looked at and that could be down in the toolbox to strengthen the physical framework around future medical practice in the form of modern medical houses and health houses, thus creating the right framework for strong professional communities locally and thus also some attractive physical framework for future patients. In our view, we should also look at the possibilities of increasing the financial incentives in relation to taking more patients into practice, and we should allow the regions to make agreements with older practitioners, for example, that they should be able to finance additional staff for the clinic, for example. in the form of nurses. Finally, there is also a huge untapped potential in promoting the use of digital consultation, i.e. the digital meeting between doctor and patient, which, for good reasons, has flourished here during the corona crisis, at least when the crisis was at its peak. Now it has fallen to a slightly lower stable level, but we very much believe that there is also the possibility of raising the digital meeting between health care and the individual patient through various measures. There are several tools for this, but these are just some of the instruments we think are needed to ensure as good and as wide a medical coverage for as many Danes as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125733	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125736	Thank you. I'll be brief. Now, of course, we have discussed duty, or at least mentioned the word a number of times, as a possible tool, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur about the position of the Left on duty as a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125751	No, I would have mentioned this here, if I thought it had been so central to the debate, and I would probably have highlighted it if I thought it was a viable road. In other words, we believe more in the fact, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that we are using different incentive methods, including economic ones, in order to attract practitioners to those areas of Denmark where the challenge of getting their own practitioner is greatest. You just have to remember: when you speak medical challenges, you have such a feeling that it only applies in the sparsely populated areas of the country, but we are also moving closer to the capital. As Mr. Stinus Lindgreen knows from her other health policy activities that there are also challenges in this part of the country. So it is a national problem in which I believe that training more doctors and so financial incentives can be some of the tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125855	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409125912	Thank you for the floor. Thanks also to the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate. This is an important issue and also a challenge that needs to be addressed, and it is therefore also true that we continue to have that conversation. There is still a shortage of doctors in Denmark, although considerable efforts have been made to compensate for the medical shortage, both regionally and centrally through the spread of medical training, the creation of more educational positions in general medicine, the medical coverage agreement in 2017 and the latest agreements with the PLO, but we are still standing away with vacant outer numbers, especially in the outermost regions and not least in the southern and western region of Zealand. But we also know how difficult it has been to get a doctor's clinic in Vollsmose in Odense; here you also had to resort to a so-called co-operation clinic with everyone's as a co-player to get a doctor's offer up. That is why we must continue to play more horses if we are to provide permanent doctors for the citizens of the whole country, while at the same time trying to avoid too many private players in this area. We have to, for example. do not have more strawberry clinics where large participations are given more opportunities to enter the health sector in Denmark. The medical offer in Denmark should be characterised by general practice, preferably in a modernised form of medical or healthcare houses with several health services and health professionals associated with them, and, if necessary, public regional or licensing clinics, where you try to work with a permanent staff of doctors who know their citizens. Finally, we should also try to relieve general practice, among other things. • the creation of a number of nursing clinics, including: can provide wound care and first aid, it could be an important supplement in the outermost regions, ensure easier access to psychological assistance for both children and adults, where today there is only a free offer for the 15-24 age group, and through more use of virtual medical practice, which can be an important addition to islanders in particular. In addition, in the context of the new PLO agreement and in the context of the future health plan, we must continue to look at how we can get even more doctors. The Medical Association has proposed a number of sensible measures: retention measures in the form of more clinic staff for older general practitioners; attraction of general medical practitioners from the hospital area to general practice if they could have better working conditions with room for maternity leave and 37-hour working week and the kind of normal, good working conditions; and support for the recruitment of more clinic staff in the form of nurses and clinic assistants, social and health assistants in general practice in the outermost areas, not least; conversion of the main training in general medicine so as to have longer practical practical practical practical training; it will be possible to avoid the Minister of Health's somewhat wild proposal for compulsory service, while at the same time increasing the interest in the area of general medicine or the establishment of several main training and introduction courses in general practice. In addition, I also think that we should look at the possibility of multiple dividing patterns, where general medicine works both in general practice and perhaps in a local hospital. I think that a great many good tactics have emerged in what has already been said from the platform today, and I also think that some good texts for adoption have been read out. In SF we can among other things. support for the adoption text which the Socialist rapporteur read out, not least as long as we do not have the concept of duty, but it is important for us in any case that there is a broad agreement in the Folketing to resolve this problem once and for all. This is an area that does not tolerate elevator policy, so I hope that we can come together to make some good solutions for medical coverage in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409130332	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409130406	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for raising an important issue. After all, we are all interested across the parties in ensuring medical coverage throughout the country, so that all citizens have easy and equal access to high-quality treatment. Unfortunately, today we have a situation of great bias across the country, where in some places it is very difficult to meet the needs of practitioners. We must do away with this in order to ensure equality in health. There is not a simple solution to that. It is very good that several main training courses have been set up in general medicine, as the Minister mentioned in his speech, which in the long term can solve part of the problem, but it goes without saying that it is a long-term strategy that does not address the challenges now and here. General practice is an essential part of our healthcare system, and in the long term we will see more and more tasks moved out to our own doctor. At the same time, we can see in demographic development that there will be an increasing need in the years to come, for more older citizens, more people with chronic diseases and more multi-sickness, everything else will make greater demands on our health care. Precisely for these groups, continuity in treatment is particularly important, so medical coverage must be ensured throughout the country. In the Radical Left, we see a wide range of possible measures that can, in combination, remedy the problem while waiting for more specialists in general medicine to be trained, because it is in our approach not to force newly trained doctors into general practice, but to make it attractive for those who want to, because it is for the benefit of both doctors and patients. The classic family doctor may no longer be a workable model for the vast majority, but the important thing is that we still ensure the same high standard of health care, and here we must embrace flexibility and new ways of organising general practice. We see, for example, how more doctors come together in one practice, so that professional sparring and community are created, or how to get others to take care of the administrative, so that the doctor can focus on the medical profession. Perhaps more can be done to ensure the necessary staff at the clinics in the most threatened areas, so that doctors do not have to worry about that part. It must be made attractive for doctors to settle in those parts of the country that are most challenged, and here you can see those parts of the country that have actually been successful in breaking the curve. For many people, it is not just about the doctor himself, because there may be a possible partner who must have a job, there may be children going to school, and here is the local action that needs to be taken. And then you can also look at whether you can keep the older practitioners just a few years longer, which will then remedy some of the problem, and at the same time have mentors for the younger doctors who want to go into general practice. There are so many gripes we can use, and in combination I am sure they can solve the challenges. Fortunately, the forecasts also point to the fact that the number of patients without access to their own doctor will peak this year, so we are on the right track even though we are not yet in the target. In conclusion, first of all, I have promised to greet Mrs Susanne Zimmer, who could not be here today, and then, on behalf of the Radical Left, Enhedslisten and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), I will make the following: Proposals for adoption The Parliament recognises that there are still medical coverage challenges in large parts of the country and that a majority of practitioners have closed the access of new patients. The Danish Parliament also recognises that an increasing number of specialists in general practice will be able to improve medical coverage in the longer term, but that other and faster measures are needed at the same time. The Danish Parliament notes that there is no support for duty obligations and that therefore this solution should not be applied. The Folketing instructs the government to convene the parties of the Folketing for negotiations to resolve the problem. • V 105). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409130800	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will now be included in the further debate. There are no brief comments, and that is why we thank Mr Beazley. Stinus Lindgreen. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409130828	I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for taking up the debate again. As the Conservative rapporteur said just now, it may be that the problem is acute, but at the same time it is also persistent, and it is certainly not a new debate or a new problem. The lack of general practitioners, who are mainly affected in outlying areas, but also in socially disadvantaged areas, is a major threat to equality in health. Being able to have a local doctor with insight into the population, in the individual family, in the individual citizen, knowing who it is that has to have an extra telephone call or an extra hand every once in a while is absolutely essential for us to overcome some of the inequalities that exist in our healthcare system, even in an extremely similar country as the Danish one, and it is both gender bias that men do not have the same health as women, but certainly also social inequality that we experience over and over again. At the same time, solving the problem of the lack of practitioners is a necessity to strengthen the close health care system where as many people as possible can feel as safe as possible. There is no one, and the debate has already reflected this, quickfixes or easy solutions to this problem, because it takes a lot of different things to do. One of the things that is not needed is duty. In the Enhedslisten we will not force young new doctors to work places they do not want to work; we would think it irresponsible to send young and inexperienced doctors to the countryside to do a job that requires specialist experience; neither are the patients served by it, nor are the younger doctors. I am afraid that this will be counterproductive to quality and continuity, and I am also afraid that this might deter someone from choosing the very thesis. Instead, we support many of the other proposals that have been presented today and earlier in the debate, among others. from the Medical Association, because as I said, there are a lot of different things to do. We think it is about choosing solutions that are based on studies on what actually motivates doctors to choose general practice and also to choose general practice outside the major cities and in the areas where we are missing and how we can solve the problem without coercion. Much of what I wanted to say has already been mentioned, fortunately, it is very good, and it is about maintaining older doctors, more opportunities for clinic staff and reduced time; we must attract general medical practitioners from hospitals, for example. with shared recruitment, as the SF rapporteur also mentioned, better financial support, a greater share of specialist training in general practice, an increase in training capacity, which has also been mentioned by several people, and then where such a general general practitioner cannot be guaranteed, we must be better able to support regional clinics. As we have been debating quite recently, and this has also been mentioned today, it is very important that we avoid having these so-called straw-man clinics which grow up around us and which do not guarantee the closeness of health that we really want, but which have been the result of some of the measures that have been taken, with among other things. The increase in the number of outside numbers trying to solve a problem with the lack of practitioners, but then creates a new problem. However, regional clinics can thus, in our optics, provide a better opportunity for flexible employment, ensure particularly good employment conditions where there is a great shortage of doctors, so simply lure with the right, really good employment conditions and individual solutions, and also ensure that new graduates do not have the administrative and employer responsibility which otherwise usually comes with being a medical practitioner. With regard to the understanding paper, we have also talked about it, because, as I said, this is no new problem, and it is said that the government will invite negotiations on a health agreement with, among other things, one of them. the following priorities: to make a targeted effort to ensure more general practitioners throughout the country. We are ready for the negotiations in the Enhedslisten, and I think the Minister is well aware of that, but that is what we have committed ourselves to jointly, in other words that we will call for those negotiations in the context of the Health Agreement. Of course, we would urge the Minister to do so again, in other words to give it a boost. The last thing I want to say is that we must remember that it is not only in general practice that there is a shortage of important and specialised staff, for example. also applies in psychiatry, where we have a major problem too. We must, and we will probably, discuss this again some other day. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking up an important debate again, thankfully. The Radical Left rapporteur has just read out a text for adoption which has been drawn up in cooperation with the Enhedslisten, and we think it is important because it also gets a line under the fact that duty is not the way forward. This is a discussion that keeps joking in this debate and takes over the debate, so I would urge other parties to also vote through that text of adoption so that we can move forward in the discussion on what else we can do out of good things. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409131405	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so after despriting we move on to Mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409131432	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for raising this question debate. After all, lack of a doctor is an incredibly large and important problem that we must resolve. That was in fact one of the reasons why I chose to run for parliament, because I think it is so important that we ensure that we have enough doctors forward-looking. Because it creates inequality in health if it's the case that you don't have your own doctor. This simply weakens medical work, and patients are at risk of diseases being overlooked, and there is a risk that too many are being referred to hospitals for no reason. That is why, in Conservatives, we have also put forward proposals to make a significant effort to train more specialists in general medicine so that people can have their own doctor. In fact, we have proposed to train a sufficient number of doctors so that we can get to the 5,000 doctors that will be needed in the future against the approx. 3,300, we have at the moment, which does not at all cover the needs. It acts among other things. that there are increasing numbers of older people and that there are increasing numbers of chronic diseases • perhaps even more than a chronic disease • and it is about us wanting to solve some more tasks in general practice rather than having to solve them in hospitals. In fact, it is also about the fact that we would like to have so many general practitioners that you have the opportunity to choose your own doctor rather than today, when you actually have to be really, really lucky if you can have a doctor and otherwise you are referred to other offers. We want citizens to have the opportunity to choose their own doctor, and I believe that doctors are best served by this. For it is important to have your own medical practitioner. It may not mean so much if it is the case that you are healthy, but if you are going to fail something gets sick, yes, then it is extremely important that you know your doctor and the doctor knows your patients. If you suffer from pain in your life, if you suffer from mental illness, if you become chronically ill, you may even have a number of chronic illnesses at the same time, yes, then it is invaluablely important that you have a doctor who you know and feel secure about. Similarly, the doctor is much easier to diagnose when it is a known patient who either calls the doctor or comes through the door, rather than an unknown patient whom the doctor sees for the first time. General practice is unique with high patient satisfaction, high quality and high patient safety. We know, of course, that a strong primary sector ensures both a lower mortality rate for a number of diseases, a longer life expectancy, less inequality and better quality of life, a more relevant use of hospitals with simply fewer admissions. And this also prevents health care costs from running out of control, because general practice is incredibly cheap to operate. It's usually about 1,500-1,600 kroner. per citizen, and what can you get for 1.500-1.600 kr. A year? You can't even get that little TV package. It is incredibly cheap and effective and to great satisfaction for patients. But it takes a certain amount of continuity to have a permanent doctor who has his permanent staff of nurse, secretary, physiotherapist and whatever else is. Why do we have a shortage of doctors? We have done so, partly because we have been trained too few doctors, partly because it has been more attractive for doctors to apply to hospitals, which are among other things. At one time there was a huge demand for specialists because of the introduction of common emergency receptions, and when the quality promise was that everyone would meet a specialist when they went to the hospital. So there are plenty of reasons why we have too few practitioners. But fortunately, as others have also mentioned, there is a little light ahead. We see, in fact, that there are available outside numbers that are being occupied by newly trained general medical practitioners, and that is very, very good. So we need to keep the chairs warm a little longer, because fortunately there are also some more. And then we have to use some of the things that the questioners have also put forward, so try to motivate some of the older doctors to stay a little longer before they retire. And in the long run, of course, we must ensure that we make it much more attractive to be a medical practitioner; it may be something about maternity, which someone has also mentioned, and it may be something about working time. There may be several different things, but for everything in the world we must avoid coercion. Nothing good ever comes out of forcing me not to know. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409131941	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why, after despriting, we can go further in the rapporteur's line. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132002	I am glad, of course, that the Conservative rapporteur did not give an example that that is what you can buy a pair of shoes for. I guess we'd have a new scandal instead. Now it is the television package that we are measuring things up against, and that is wonderful. There is also something called a Big Mac index; I like that very much. So for this request. Thanks to DF for raising it again. This is an ongoing theme that we have, and it is perfectly understandable, because it is absolutely central to the citizens out there that this works and that this works. We have an obligation to fix this. That is also why I would have liked to have asked the Minister and also the Social Democrat rapporteur when we are going to hold these negotiations. I think we all accept that there has been a corona crisis and everything else, but the world is not going to stop, and now we are one year into it. We must avoid this becoming a battlefield for the next parliamentary elections. Because that's what happened, for example. about the health reform last time, when I think that across the parties there was actually broad agreement on some of the elements that were in it, but suddenly it became a showdown around the regions or not the regions, and then everything went into a stalemate. I think that's too bad. So just a call here for us to set a date and for these negotiations to get under way. We in New Citizens have no such ideological crusade about it. In fact, I think that, although the Social Democrats have been beaten up very much for their proposals, it is worthy of a proposal and that it is actually said that this is our way of going about it. And if anyone else has any other bids that can solve this better, we'll go that way. I think that is commendable. And then we can say that we do not entirely agree with that, but perhaps we can find a solution. I think that if you can come together here on something that must be possible across political divides and where else we can argue about a lot of things every day, it should be this. So we in New Citizens are open to any proposals that can contribute to this. It may be to listen to the students and listen to the practitioners • what is it they have of desires, and what do they think they can help? If it can then merge into a political reality in here, then that is the way we should go. So we are completely open, and thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising it. I think it is important that we keep the pot in a boil about this, but also that we may be able to take it from question debates into a negotiating room and from there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132225	Thank you. No brief remarks. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132252	Thank you. It's just very short from me. Thank you for your contributions and thank you for a good debate, which I think is what this debate should be about, but it also indicates that there is a consensus that this problem needs to be resolved. I also think that I can trace a great deal of constructiveness and desire on the part of the individual rapporteur when it comes to resolving it. I can say that several people have asked about timetables and how the timetable looks, and what I can say is that in this month I will call the parties for discussions. And I have also been watching, of course, the now paused collective bargaining with the PLO, which is under way, but in this month I have planned it has not yet been announced to them, but those who follow on the screen can now see that we are soon sending them a call for discussions, where, of course, I want to hear what they have of proposals, and then we can try to count on them. After that, I will also call the parties of the Folketing, and if we agree on something, it can obviously become a central element of the health agreement, which will also be this year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132417	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132422	Thank you very much. Now, of course, we have had the debate here for some time, and the question is what the Minister can tell us about the lack of practitioners and whether the government will consider restoring some of the arrangements that have been in the past to remedy the problem, for example. grants to premises, higher benefits fees, that you can take in more patients, now that the approach is closed, subsidies to have older patients, so you can hire nurses. In fact, I have not received an answer to that, even though we have had a long debate. I know that there have been other rapporteurs who have mentioned this, but if that is something that the Minister for Health will consider exactly, I would like to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132504	I can see that this is part of the adoption text that the Danish People's Party has put forward. In relation to financial support from the public sector, I think it is quite crucial that we remember that the general practitioners are, after all, private operators. They are working on an agreement with the public sector, and that is what is currently being negotiated during these paused but thus not concluded negotiations. The agreement, that is to say the agreement, provides for a basic fee per year. patient and an allowance for the individual benefits, and some weightings have also been made depending on where you are and what type of patients you have. I do not think that outside that agreement we should give financial support to any general practitioner. I believe that this is a matter for the agreement and, as I said, it is about to be concluded, hopefully soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132600	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132604	That's exactly the logic I'm wondering about. It is said that it is private practitioners; ergo we cannot grant subsidies for premises or for them to hire someone so that they can take in more patients. But where there is a shortage of doctors, you can pay hundreds of thousands extra to get some into those areas. What's the difference? They work for the same thing: to give all citizens of Denmark the medical care they need. Every time we talk about this either with local supplements or something else, they say it's because they're private practitioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132641	Yes, and that is the setup we have in Denmark. I think it has been an historically good setup and that it solves many problems now here, but I must also say that in relation to the discussions I have to have with the parties and with the parties, I am sure that the desire for how to get the practitioners to increase their capacity by hiring more practical staff, for example, is included. Let us try to see how we can then knit it together on the basis of the requirements that this entails, so that we can have the agreement between doctors and the public sector separately and the other measures taken separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132718	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132722	I would first like to follow up on what Mrs Liselott Blixt has said. It is, of course, a paradox that the Minister says that it is a question of private practitioners and that, therefore, it cannot be seen that any kind of financial support can be provided, but it is possible to impose on them some employees that they would not otherwise have had. Well, that's kind of a paradox. What I really want to ask is this: when we were in government, we were, in fact, well ahead of us with plans and had also set in motion plans to provide financial support to set up health houses around the country, how does the Minister view the future? Some of these pools have been parked by the government. Should we not set up new health houses and modernise medical practices around the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132814	Yes, we need to start securing the local link in our health system. It is quite true that there are some funds that we are looking forward to leading to a broad conciliation on health reform this year, I hope. These are some pools that we have just deliberately not used in current financial laws and other things, but have said that we must reserve them to solve important health-related problems. So I look forward to doing that with the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132846	Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132850	Again, I think it is quite a paradox. If we all think that we have some sort of problem, where part of the solution is about modernising some of the general practice, including in terms of the material part, and that we need to strengthen the close health care by providing a better physical framework, why is it really that we are waiting? Why has the government parked this money somewhere so we don't really know where it ends up with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132920	It may be the kind of christiansborg response that I unfortunately make, and I hate answers like that, but the fact is that it was part of the health reform of the previous government. This government will also present a health reform. We have said so, and we will do so this year. That's why the jdet o hangs well together. It is such a large and important part of our health sector and health system in general that what happens with such a pool, and what can be solved in terms of local quality and presence, is as closely linked to the rest of what a health reform should be able to do, that it is probably very wise for it to be linked in terms of negotiation and time. This is something I look forward to doing in the coming months.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409132959	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133002	Thank you. I am one of those who is looking forward to this debate and will really follow up on some of what I said in my rapporteur's speech, that is to say, trying to think other staff into practice. First of all, it can take a lot of relief if you can send a nurse home to a citizen to have the blood tests, measured blood pressure, and whatever else is needed, and there are plenty of tasks that can be done by other health professionals. I know that there is also some payment and all sorts of other things. But could it not make very good sense to try to get a picture of the great diversity that is really around the country in how you have chosen to use other resources, because it is worthwhile and because it is an opportunity, so that we also get a common picture of how we can look at the possibility of putting together staff in a different way in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133106	Yes, and I noted and I listened with great interest to Mrs Kirsten Normann's rapporteur's speech and what was mentioned, precisely all the points about hiring more practical staff, and there were various examples of what they can do and how they can simply ensure that both quality and capacity are strengthened locally. I think these are wise words, which should be one of the things that we must clearly move forward with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133133	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133136	Well, it's really because it's so different. So that is also what makes it difficult to have the discussion in here at times. For the experience is different when we look at Sjælland, than they are where I come from, in the Region of Central Jutland, and I think it makes sense to try to think across. Moreover, it will also facilitate recruitment to a great many other health professions if one can see that one has different advancement opportunities in one's profession. So I really think there is a theme here that we should try to set the maximum. focus on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133210	Let's deal with it. I have to say that I was born and raised in Næstved down in South Zealand, and there you don't think Zealand is one thing, and that Jutland is another. For the challenge of medical coverage in Region Sjælland, Lolland and Falster, West Zealand and also some of South Zealand are one challenge, and you also have the challenge, but another challenge, in another part of Zealand, namely in the metropolitan area. And it shows so very well that it is different elements, i.e. different issues that are in the different corners of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133242	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption shall take place on Tuesday 13 April 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133303	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 13 April 2021. The rapporteur, Mrs Liselott Blixt, from the Danish People's Party, for a explanatory statement
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133325	Thank you very much. I know that it would have been easy if the two requests had been taken together. We would also have come home earlier today, here on a Friday afternoon. But I just mean, and the Danish People's Party believes that Region Sjælland is an important matter, in that we take the question for ourselves. We also know that it is some of the things that will give the Minister challenges when it comes to making an agreement, because it is the Region of Zealand that hangs that is where you have to have an agreement. And that is also why I think we should take this debate on board. After all, we have just had a question in which we looked at general practitioners throughout the country. But we also know that the big problem is Region Sjælland. So in the Danish People's Party we would like to see you look at a plan of action for the area, because it is the region that is most challenged. We have seen that the Nordjylland Region actually brought in a great many things in relation to the fact that they had an education in the region and thus also attracted a great many general practitioners. These are some of the lessons we need to learn from and then look at what it is we can benefit from when we look at Region Sjælland. For Region Sjælland is also the region where we have the most elderly, people with chronic illnesses, people with lifestyle diseases and many other challenges. There are many social challenges in Region Sjælland, depending on where you live, but when you come from Lolland, you know that there are many things that are involved. That is why it is important for us to have a look at the region separately, and that is what I hope will be done, both by the Minister and by the rapporteurs. So I look forward very much to hearing how the Minister sees Region Sjælland in play and the Minister comes from there himself, as we heard, so I would like to hear what concrete action will be taken for this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133530	Thank you for that, and after despriting we get the answer. Here you go, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409133554	Thank you for asking about medical shortages. Now we go a little deeper after the debate just now and focus and zoom in on medical shortages in Region Sjælland, which is clearly one of those places, not the only ones where the problem is greatest, if you look at the figures, and it is good to have a concrete starting point for the debate here. After all, we have just had a question debate on the challenges across the country, and now we zoom in at Region Sjælland. It is true in Region Sjælland, like everywhere else, that all Danes in all parts of the country, of course in all parts of Region Sjælland, must have access to a general practitioner. If we then look at the problem in Region Sjælland, we can see that for example. in Lolland Municipality, which is part of Region Sjælland, all practices in the municipality, according to PLO figures, were closed to entry in 2020. This was the case last year: all practices have closed to approach. The differences between the different regions also emerge when looking at the proportion of regional and supply clinics. It is relatively high in the Region of Zealand, and there is a clear, clear need for this too. However, it is high, and if you look at the figures, you can see that in the Region of Zealand it was almost 40,000 citizens who last year were associated with either a regional clinic or a supply clinic • 40,000 citizens. If one compares with the neighbouring region, the Capital Region, there is in fact only one regional clinic and it is located on Bornholm. So I share the questioners' ambition that more needs to be done to improve medical coverage throughout Denmark where there are problems, and that is there in Region Sjælland. This issue needs to be addressed both regionally and at national level, and I know that in the Region of Zealand, and across party politics, there is a great deal of concern about finding regional solutions to the medical coverage challenges, for example. the region itself seeks to ensure medical coverage by offering attractive positions where good education, good working environment and good research opportunities are high priority. This is one of the things we know attracts doctors and it actually attracts even more educated doctors, but in general it is of course also important for retention. So good education, good working environment and good research opportunities are high priority. In addition, the region focuses on supporting the balance between work and family life. They do, for example. established driving arrangements, coherent training programmes and responding to requests for reduced time in senior schemes. It may sound a little low-practical, but sometimes it is what makes it possible to make everyday life relate to a job in that region. And specifically in relation to general practice, the region has stated that medical coverage is a priority through special recruitment and restraint interventions. It is ensured that all citizens have access to a general medical offer, but the figures show, as I said, that it is a hard struggle • a hard struggle to secure it alone and that 40,000 are thus secured by a regional or tender clinic. In addition, there is actually cooperation between the two neighbouring regions, the Region of Zealand and the Capital Region. There is simply a whole formal cooperation on medical training under the auspices of the Eastern Higher Education Region, and Mrs Liselott Blixt has during the day been concerned to look at the experience of precisely training in Northern Jutland, and that is one of the lessons one is trying to learn from to do something that is not one-to-one, but is a version of what can fit the geography and educational opportunities of the Zealander. Cooperation allows for sparring across the two regions in terms of development, uniformity and efforts to minimise medical shortages. And the Eastern region of continuing training has indicated that for all main training courses it is sought that both regions are engaged and that a proportion of the courses are completed in the Region of Zealand. This also has an impact on retention. One can simply see that the place where one finishes one's education is also a chance that one wants to start one's career then. But we cannot just stand here and say that the region must solve it. Now I have explained that they are wearing work gloves and working hard for this, but there is also a need for national measures. As you know, the government, together with Danske Regionser, has decided to increase the number of main education courses for general medicine with 50 additional courses in 2020 and 50 additional courses in 2021, part of which of the additional main education courses in general medicine is precisely distributed to the Higher Education Region of East. I would also like to repeat, and that is not because we need to have a long debate on this, that our proposal on duty would of course also be one of the things that would have to be put into effect in the Region of Zealand. It is not because we need to start the debate I would like to take it, even now, but now I have just mentioned it, i.e. that it is a proposal that is still the government's proposal and a proposal that we believe will have an effect exactly such a place as Lolland, where you are standing and needing doctors. There it would be quite obvious to put such a proposal on the table. As I have said, in this month we will now call relevant parties for discussions, and we will be open and responsive to all professional and political input and proposals that will contribute specifically to meeting the challenges, both in the short term and in the long term, and in the light of those discussions we will take the initiative in this area. Thank you for that, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409134203	Thank you. Then there is the possibility of one brief remark from each of the rapporteurs. First, Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409134209	Thank you very much. And thank you for the Minister's reply. But I get sad when you compare what you did in the Region of North Jutland, where you established a medical education, to create some places and that training courses in the Region of Zealand, and that you say that they will probably stay down in the Region of Zealand. They don't do that. I was just about to say some pretty bad words that you can't say in the Chamber. We know that when you take an education and it's a long education then you move near it. If Region Sjælland received a very good apprenticeship, where one had to be for several years and therefore moved there, then the municipalities could make themselves delicious as settlement municipalities, just as they did in North Jutland, where they ensured that there was a possibility that the younger doctors could surf the water. Is this something the Minister wants to work for, that is, for us in the Region of Zealand to have a university, a medical education which offers the same as all other regions, or should the Region of Zealand remain the loser?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409134318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409134321	I think we are on the verge of what I am responsible for, because I do not want to be a minister who sits and judges or is responsible for what each university has or does not have of branches. It is quite true that there is a great difference between the University of Zealand, namely RUC, and the North Jutland, which is located in Aalborg. There is a huge difference, and my own view is that in many, many areas you can learn a lot from what you have done in Aalborg. However, I think that the answer will require a slightly more comprehensive analysis of opportunities and problems if we are to get to the bottom of it. So we can work on that and investigate, but I'm not gonna be able to tell you right now how these scales are going to be in relation to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409134415	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409134418	I'm gonna ask you about the same thing. Because I think that is exactly what Mrs Liselott Blixt says, and that is why the Danish People's Party has raised this issue aimed at the region of Sjælland, which I understand it is remarkable that the region in which everything else just has one of the worst health conditions in our population and some of the biggest challenges with medical coverage is the only region which cannot offer a full course of medical education. We know that training opportunities are one of the most crucial factors in ensuring that doctors can be employed locally. So it may well be on the edge of the health minister's order, I agree, but can the Minister, on behalf of the government, give an indication, if nothing else, that the government is going to work hard for that? Because that is not something the region itself can do. You can seek, and you can work for it, and you can do a lot of things, but that is not something that lies within the region's own portfolio of tasks, I should say. So will the Minister not state that this is something the government will help with so that we can get full medical training as a step on the way to getting better medical coverage in our region?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409134527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409134531	The part of what I am responsible for and will explain here is, of course, how we can ensure medical coverage throughout the country through educational efforts. When we have agreed on additional main training courses in general medicine, and this has just been done in the agreements I have made with Danske Regions, part of them are precisely distributed to the Eastern Higher Education Region, which consists of the Region of Zealand and the Capital Region of Denmark. There is a cooperation between those who now stand for it, and it is then the University of Copenhagen that has established the Master's degree programme in medicine in what is called the Region Sjælland track, and it is actually fully rolled out during this year, I know. This should ensure early anchoring of doctors in the region and thereby a basis for recruitment and retention. And so it is the case that the students can choose where they want to stay in the clinic, and they have the opportunity to gather all clinic stays in the same place, as well as to ensure that they can have a greater connection and a greater geographical spread.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409134633	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. After cleaning, we move on to the negotiations. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409134709	Thank you very much. I thought we got a little bite that the minister would like to take a look at it. I know that when we went to elections here in the last parliamentary elections, at least there were social democrats in the region who stood for the region and sat in the region who wanted to see an education in the Region of Zealand. I've been to the RUC myself. I've talked to professors, I've talked to doctors, I've talked to those who know it, so it's not something I just pull up or make up that some people sometimes think. There were many who saw that medical training could possibly be developed with a focus on general practice and psychiatry. These are some of the things that are lacking in Region Sjælland and that could be perfectly compatible with the things you have on the RUC. Then there are others who would like it to be put elsewhere. As far as we are concerned, it is not the place that is crucial. But all we know is that we have a university that actually runs a lot on some forms of teaching that can be used in the two medical tracks, and you could start with a small number, as they did the Region of North Jutland, where they started with 50 training places. Many laughed and said that they were never used, but it wasn't long before you needed 50 more. So that's one of the things we want. But it's a long-term plan. Because the problem is that we have to do something here and now. There are a lot of people who turn to me and say: I want a permanent doctor, and I can't get a permanent doctor; it's new doctors every time I come, and they can't help me. We also know that there are a great many people in the Region of Zealand, especially Lolland-Falster, who need to get to a permanent doctor and get the help they need. What do we think we can do? We have again talked to some of those who understand it and asked what it is they want. First of all, as has been said, you have this specialist training course, but also that you combine it somewhat more. I know that the Minister was talking about trying to make some combo positions in the Region of Zealand. I also think that a great many things have been done in the Region of Zealand. That is just not everything you have the authority to do, and that is where I believe that the Folketing and the Minister should go in and ensure that there is a legal basis. But, for example, if you do... I have to be careful not to mention any municipalities, but it can be far out in the countryside or with a lot of bad or a position where you are the only one in a clinic, so it would be very nice that you could also get to one of the more attractive places, so you like to combine it. It might be that you got a really good education position at Rigshospitalet, while you came down somewhere on Lolland, so it became something. These are some of the things the doctors say could be possible. At the same time, we must also look at what we are doing in relation to many of the more than 60-year-old doctors who are actually about to retire. There are actually very many of them in the Region of Zealand, and if we do not find a solution there, we have an even bigger problem than what we have today. One should already go out and make sure that they can either drive down in time or that they can get some extra staff or whatever else you can do in relation to it. Or it could be the part about securing rooms. Because there are medical clinics that say they can take in an extra doctor and it may also be a student, it may be an educational posture but they do not have the premises for it. They just don't have the square meters. There's what we want you to be able to apply for a pool that could also be used at health houses, so we'll have another clinic done, because then there might be one more. So there are also some things where it is just about the physical. So we think there are some things that could be done right now. When we look at what else we can ensure, it is that we see a lot of women coming out and becoming practitioners. But they are also going to have to have some children at some point, and there we must also be willing to look at how we can ensure that there is proper maternity leave for them and do something about it. And then there are these proposals, which I mentioned that both in the Capital Region and in the Region of North Jutland have been seen, where the minister has to go in and make his own legal basis. I would like the Minister to answer whether he will look at the provisions which have been in place in the past and which need to be there in order for the region to be able to do something. That's what we're hoping for. The time has run out, so I will make our proposal for adoption, which we are alone in. I'm sorry no one else backs up because the other is just the same kind. Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises the need to give the Region of Zealand better opportunities to take measures to reduce the problems of local medical coverage. The Folketing believes that a plan is necessary for the Region of Zealand, where there is a possibility of more flexible arrangements, such as: special medical training courses in general medicine where internships in the south and west of the Region of Zealand are paired with stays in hospital departments in Roskilde, Køge and Copenhagen. The Folketing instructs the government to establish the legal basis for regions to grant subsidies to general practices by e.g.: to finance 1⁄2 nurses for two years for doctors over 60 years of age who might otherwise retire and close their practice, or otherwise support existing general practitioners in order to improve the condition with a lack of practitioners. • V 106).
ParlaMint-DK_20210409135310	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. There are no brief comments, so we would like to thank Mrs Liselott Blixt and move on to Mr Blixt's question. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409135326	Thank you for the floor. Once again, as I said before, I would like to thank you for raising the debate on medical shortages. It is also obvious with a special focus on Region Sjælland, in that this is where the challenges are most urgent in the country. I myself am elected and raised and resident in the Region of Zealand, also in an area where medical shortages are not only figures in the statistics, but are a very concrete challenge in everyday life and a challenge that will only increase in the next few years if we do not do something drastic. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech just now, it is absolutely essential that you have access to your own permanent doctor. It is not, of course, because doctors in the region's supply clinics are poorer doctors or that as such there is something bad in it, but it means something to be associated with your own regular doctor, who knows you, and if you have children, know them, and they know what to pay particular attention to with the patients they now have. There is something absurd and frightening about the fact that that part of the country that is most in need of doctors, where you most need access to your own doctor, is also where there is the greatest medical shortage, and that is also what the debate and questions here have revolved around, and which has been mentioned by several people in relation to demography, the labour market and the challenges you are facing, the number of cronies and many other things. That is also why, as I pointed out in my previous speech, the education of doctors only solves half of the problem. It is essential that doctors also get to where the need is. And that's true, whether we're talking doctors or we're talking nurses or any care and healthcare professionals, we're talking about that is crucial. It can be said that, in relation to the issue raised specifically here, we are looking into the fact that in a few years' time we expect that, if we do not do something extraordinary, there will be 100 000 citizens in the Region of Zealand who will be without access to their own doctor, that is, every eighth citizen in the Region of Zealand. We cannot accept that at all. Therefore, we need to take drastic measures and cannot just sweep all the things and all the tools off the table that seem inconvenient. We have to do something extraordinary, and the situation in the Region of Zealand calls in particular for action from the Folketing. If we zoom in a little more and not only look at Region Sjælland, one could also say that it is not everywhere in Region Sjælland. The problem is that if you zoomed in more, and if we had had the old counties and you had looked at the old county of West Zealand and looked at the old county of Storstrøm, the situation would have been even worse. One can say that there are extraordinary challenges in attracting doctors, not only in the individual municipalities, i.e. not only in Holbæk or Slagelse or Kalundborg or Nykøbing Sjælland, but if you look at the smaller towns around, there are additional challenges. So the further away you get from the metropolitan area, and the further away you come from the towns around, it looks even worse. So we really have a duty and a need for us to be prepared to tackle this here, to tackle the root of the nettle, to ensure that there is a text for adoption I want to read out, and to come here: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that there are still medical coverage challenges in large parts of the country and that a majority of practitioners have closed the access of new patients. The Folketing also recognises that an increasing number of specialists in general practice will in the long term be able to improve medical coverage, but until that happens it is also necessary to provide medical coverage with publicly owned regional and licensing clinics, not least in the outermost regions. The Danish Parliament recognises that the government and Danske Regions have decided to increase the number of main education courses in general medicine with 50 additional courses in 2020 and 50 additional courses in 2021. The Danish Parliament believes that it is crucial that the forthcoming agreement on general practice focuses on solving the medical coverage challenges. Parliament notes that the government will call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations to resolve the problem. • V 107).
ParlaMint-DK_20210409135842	This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further debate. Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409135850	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. In the past, the Minister was not very much in favour of responding to what might have been on the outskirts of his resort, and it may also be fair enough, there are certainly some limitations there, but some limitation does not have the Socialist rapporteur, he can give his opinion on everything on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. In the previous round we revolved around the possibility of obtaining full medical training for the region, and in this context the Region of Zealand is the only region which does not have it and, at the same time, we can see that, as the rapporteur himself says, there is enough, the challenge of getting doctors is the greatest, it is obvious that we should have full medical training, not only in the goose-eyes of the candidate, but full and full medical training, for example. attached to the University Hospital of Zealand in Køge. So my question is: is this something that the Social Democratic Party of Christiansborg, from the national level, will support and make an active effort to be able to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409135943	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409135944	Now the rapporteur is asking about the position of the Social Democrats on this, and that is not something the Social Democrats have taken a position on, in relation to what is to happen, what is to be created by new education around it, because that is really what it is part of. There is a lot in this that we need to look at to ensure that there are good opportunities to live and work and live and yes, improve and train throughout Denmark, and also to ensure that you have it, what can be said, labour that is needed. And Zealand is facing a particular challenge. After all, I am very much in favour of medical education in the Region of Zealand, because I can see how much benefit it has been for the Region of North Jutland, and I am glad that you started a medical education in Aalborg some years ago, and I am glad that you started a nursing education in Holbæk because it is a huge gift. What we just need to know is that Sjælland and Aalborg and North Jutland cannot be directly compared, because we do not have an Aalborg located in the middle of Region Sjælland, so it is not that easy to transfer, but that is the dream.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140055	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140056	I am pleased that the rapporteur himself has the ambition that we should have full and full medical training with the Region of Zealand. But may I ask: what is needed before the Social Democratic Party takes the view that this is a good idea, because it takes action on the part of Christiansborg? This is not something that the region itself can decide and say: we want it to be, we decide to introduce it. You can't do that. That is something where a framework is needed from in here so that it can be done, so what will it take before the Social Democrats make the decision that they want to work actively for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140129	I see the process as very similar to the battle that was when we fought to get an engineering education for Kalundborg, another engineering education for Kalundborg, a engineering school for Kalundborg, a nursing education for Holbæk and a medical education for Aalborg; just the fight I was not so involved in, but I cheered on the sidelines, but it is really the same thing, that is, to ensure that professionalism has to be there, and it has to be sustainable in the long term in terms of recruiting, so if we...Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140208	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140210	Thank you very much. After all, we have looked into this very much in the Region of Zealand, and so did the Social Democrats. There was so much media talk about it that a lot of people actually approached and asked when it got started. So there is interest in it, perhaps also, because house prices around here in the capital have become a little high. And then they can see it perhaps even more here after corona and we hear that there are even more who would like to move down to Lejre etc., where it turns and is green, and where there is nature and you can hear the birds wings. So it could be that there was an opportunity. That's why it could just be interesting what Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff will work for; whether it is to get proper medical training for the region, whether you want an action plan for the Region of Zealand itself. It would be very nice if we, who come from the Region of Zealand, could create such a small mob that pulled the same hammer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140311	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140312	I'd love to. The crucial thing is always, I think, in relation to the success of starting up new education, that professionalism will be as high in the smaller towns as it is in the large cities, that is, that it will not be second-class education. It is also essential to believe in viability. So you say to yourself that you believe that this education will be there in 5,10, 20 years. So if these two things are in place, then I think you have a good project and a strong case. After all, what will be the challenge is that we do not have an Aalborg located in the middle of Region Sjælland. We don't have 180,000 citizens in a city in the middle of it all. So it is an incomparable situation, one might say, with North Jutland. So the question is, where is it supposed to be? In one of the hospitals and not necessarily too close to the capital if you want to have the geographical effect by getting it a little further away from the capital. So it's not like that. But these things have to be in place, and then I think you have a stronger case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140430	Thank you. Mrs. Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140430-2	I don't think it's a problem if you put it in Roskilde. I live in Count, my mother lives in Rødby Harbour. It's on the other end. It'll take a little over an hour, then you'll be there. So the distances aren't that big. It takes me just as long to drive from Greve to Christiansborg, sometimes it takes longer. So it's just to say that it's a completely different yardstick we're talking about. And you have that professionalism, and you have the teachers and the professors, if you bet on the two specialties called psychiatry and general medicine. And, of course, we could work together. So it was nothing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140508	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140510	That is certainly something and, as I said, the day we have a sustainable project with a plan that is easy to cut, that is where the Region of Zealand stands strong. That's what you've had. If we look at the successes that have been made in the Region of Zealand, with new exciting programmes, which have been a huge shortcoming for many years, and where something has really happened in the last five years, then that is what has been the success.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140549	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Jacob Jensen, left, when we get the liquor off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409140617	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party and Mrs Liselott Blixt for raising the matter here. One might ask, as Mrs Liselott Blixt herself said, why we should now take an extra round on this. Yes, it is precisely because, as has also been said, the Region of Zealand has a particular challenge and may have the greatest challenge of getting and maintaining doctors; in return, they have the worst in general health in our population. It's two unfortunate sizes at the same time. You can also see how the trend has been in relation to precisely the number of practitioners; it has also been sharply decreasing over a number of years now. It is very important for us and for most people, I think that we are precisely ensuring equality in health and that it does not depend on your postal code whether you can get a proper and real health offer, including in general practice. We would very much like to look at various options based on the idea that it should be motivating, interesting for doctors to take up positions and settle in the area. We are not in favour of coercion, as was also shown in the previous question debate. We would very much like to see educational opportunities, career opportunities. We have mentioned that the Region of Zealand is the only region that does not have a full and full medical education. We have the Master's degree programme, but not the first part. We would very much like to see a rapid and flexible procedure backed up by the national authorities too, because I have no doubt that there is a demand for the first part of medical training too, and that is why, as the Socialist rapporteur has said a little earlier, there is a basis for this. It's not that it would be a second-rate education. I also believe very much that creating professional environments is one of the things that is interesting; not least, we hear this from younger doctors. What, then, does professional environments mean? Yeah, it's one of the deals. on the way in which one organises oneself. Well, the doctors' houses and the fact that you had a medical family where the husband was a doctor and the wife maybe a nurse, are probably a thing of the past. You want to be organized in some larger units where you are more doctors connected to the same unit and associated with other staff groups like nurses and other staff, so you have colleagues to save with. Last but not least, we would also like to look at the possibilities of using incentives to some extent that would make it economically attractive to settle in some of the areas where you can see that the medical challenge is greatest. So it is about the organization of the medical houses that I think there are a lot of doctors who say that in the eyes of the goose they just want to be doctors. They will not also be employers; they will not also take the risk of buying and owning a house and what else comes with the whole setup. And the fact that you can organize yourself out of it can happen by the fact that there are investors who go and buy and manage and manage things, and the doctor then focuses on his medical profession. I think that could be a very sensible thing. And we can see that too. Now Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff just mentioned the tender clinics, and that is another way of organizing itself. Some people do not like that much, but it has some other advantages, namely that doctors can avoid having to take care of anything other than being a doctor. The region has also tried what we call close clinics, and we can also have some political views on this, but at least it is an attempt to organise things differently and in a new way. I also think it is important to look at it in relation to specialists, that is, that there is a possibility that they can also come out and get some outside numbers; it may be in radiology, it may be elsewhere where there are really great challenges in attracting enough skilled labour. As part of the question here, there is also a line on how Region Sjælland can cooperate with the capital, and I think that is very sensible. It is in some way also a labour market that is linked. One might say that we need doctors, but perhaps it is more the distribution of doctors that is the problem. It is not to point the finger at the capital at all, but there is just a challenge that there are very many doctors who, for various reasons, feel attracted to being in the metropolitan area instead of being where, you might say, everything else is equally more sick. So that is certainly something that I see great perspectives in one can cooperate around. I also think it can be said that this challenge over the next few years will not be reduced for a number of reasons, but also because of the approach that we have at least and which I think several others have, namely that we need to organise our health services in a way that allows the specialised treatments, operations and so on. specialized hospitals and more and more come out close to the citizens and, therefore, not least general practice. The fact that the tasks are actually getting bigger and more important out there also means that this problem will continue to be even more important in the future too. So in these words I would like to put forward a proposal for adoption which I would like to read out on behalf of the Left and Conservative and New Civic: Proposals for adoption The Folketing believes that new initiatives are needed to help solve the problem of medical coverage, among other things. in Region Sjælland. Parliament therefore instructs the government to convene negotiations as soon as possible with the aim of creating better incentives for doctors to seek areas where the medical shortage is greatest, among other things. through financial incentives, better educational and career opportunities and stronger professional environments. At the same time, the Danish Parliament invites the government to engage closely with Danish Regions, doctors' organisations and other relevant actors, so that a comprehensive plan can be drawn up for the area. V 108).
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141207	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141212	Thank you. I usually have a good working relationship with the Left and Conservatives, and I'm thinking, "Oh, come on, is that what you're swinging up to in a proposal for adoption" something that the Minister has already said he is doing? Oh, my God, is it because it's two regional members who are in this question? I must say that I am deeply disappointed. So the proposal for adoption says that the minister should call for negotiations. It has been said by the minister that he will do so and it is said that he is going to have a dialogue with the Medical Association and the regions. The Minister has said the same thing. I would just like to know if the rapporteur could perhaps come up with something more concrete to be done instead of something that the Minister has already nodded in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141259	In fact, I was hoping that Mrs Liselott Blixt had heard in my rapporteur's speech that we have just a few points of impact. After all, this requires us to come to the negotiating table, and it is like what we are trying to say with this proposal for adoption, namely that we want to come in and make those proposals so that we can just negotiate and thus obtain a majority in the Folketing. Because that's one of the things that's gonna happen. If, and we have also mentioned this with medical training, for example, we cannot do it alone on the part of the region. This can be done at national level. This requires that we also have a debate on equal opportunities. It is also about how to create the incentives, i.e. both economic and professional, and it also requires the framework within which you have to work. And, of course, it is also about the fact that, in terms of health and safety, and in terms of other things, there are also rules that require a national approach. That is why we would like to see us coming in, but of course there must also be the dialogue that we are also calling for there to be with the regions, about what opportunities they see. Then I know that in the text adopted by Mrs Liselott Blixt, there are also fine measures. I'm just worried about whether you go in and make a lex region of Zealand and require them to do some things you can say that we might as well do at national level. That is why I am putting forward this round of negotiations where I am quite sure that Mrs Liselott Blixt will be an active player.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141412	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141412-2	Thank you. But I am thinking, and I think the citizens are just hearing, that there are two regional politicians sitting on regional councils who have done nothing before and are talking about just talking to the minister. It's the same thing we've been doing for so many years. It needs something concrete if we are to do something in the Region of Zealand. I would have liked the rapporteur of the Left to have been a little more powerful, but unfortunately he was not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141441	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141443	Now I did not hear any question, but I am also looking forward to hearing the other regional politician speak in a moment, because we still have that benefit in this case at least. But I would say that I will be just as powerful as is needed at all. I just think that what's most important here is separating things. There is something the region can do, and that is what we are working for, and now, as you know, I am also a member of the region, and that is what we are working for there. But there is a framework, and that framework must be blown up, one might say, among other things, as we have talked about, with medical training. This is not something the region itself can do. There is an economic framework, and it is also the government that is going to negotiate it with the Danish Regions at any time. That's why I'm trying to encourage you to separate things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141521	Thank you. No further brief comments. After the despriting, it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141542	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the rapporteur for calling this debate on the question, but not so much for not merging it with the previous one, because I think that this debate is very similar to the one we have just had, and I also think that a great many of the answers are the same. Denmark is a small country, and yet we have to see time and time again that there are large regional differences in relation to population composition, demography, and in relation to where people want to work and where people want to settle down. This gives us some challenges that are different. Right now, there are great challenges in having enough capacity in the birth area of the Capital Region, and it is also about medical coverage in the Region of Zealand, preparedness in the Region of Central Jutland and medical coverage in the Region of North Jutland. But overall, I think it is important that we in the Folketing have one overall plan on how to ensure that it is attractive to be educated and reduced in relation to medical practice throughout the country. So my answer to this question debate will be the same as what I gave in the previous question debate, and it will also be the same solutions that I am going to propose. I will avoid repeating them, so I would just like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141716	There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141718	I think it must be because the rapporteur comes from North Jutland, where the problems have been solved. Then you don't care about Region Sjælland, because they can sail their own lake. It is actually a Gordian knot in relation to collective bargaining, where it is said that if we do not solve the region of Zealand, we cannot solve the rest of the country's problem. Therefore, in the Danish People's Party, it is incredibly important that we take up the whole Region of Zealand in order to solve that problem. It is the only region that does not have medical training, and it is the region that has the most unhealthy, and then the rapporteur does not think it is important that we take that debate, but we should take it as a whole. So it would be the same as saying that if the gentlemen get the right help, they will probably do so in Lolland too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141802	No, that's not how I see it at all. Perhaps I should start by saying that my father was born at Mother's, but I myself am a mid-jyde and have been a genuine Aarhusian all my life, and it is also a kind of privilege, because of course East Jutland is also one of those places where it may be easier to recruit doctors. And I very much acknowledge that there are challenges with medical coverage in certain parts of the country. It is not only in the Region of Zealand. It's somewhere else, too. I also agree that it needs to be resolved. I think that this should be resolved in an overall holistic plan, so that we ensure precisely medical coverage throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141841	Mrs. Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141843	Forgive me for placing the rapporteur in the wrong place. For the Jutes, we're all Copenhageners here, and for us, you're all North Jutlanders. But the reason we want a plan is because something was done in North Jutland that helped them. Something was done in the capital that helped them. Why not do something to help them in the Region of Zealand? Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141906	I do not think the rapporteur has heard me say that we will do nothing in relation to the Region of Zealand. What the rapporteur has heard me say is that Denmark is a small country. We have to solve the problems that exist and they are different from region to region, and these are different challenges we have, from one region to another for demographic reasons and, in fact, perhaps for many different reasons. So it is also a challenge that needs to be addressed in relation to Region Sjælland. I would like us to solve it in a comprehensive plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409141940	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We'll continue with sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409142002	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for raising another important issue. As others have said, we have just had a debate on the general challenges of medical shortages throughout the country, but it is also clear that there are areas which have far greater problems than others. Unfortunately, the Region of Zealand is particularly challenged here. This is a huge problem, as it creates an imbalance in our health services, which we need to rectify. That is why it is also important that we take this debate. I fully agree with my colleague from the Danish People's Party. In my previous speech, I have mentioned several of the measures that we in the Radical Left believe should be taken, and this also applies, of course, to the Region of Zealand, namely greater flexibility, in relation to how clinics can be organized and organised, as long as the same high level of professionalism is guaranteed; local initiatives to make it attractive for doctors and their families to settle; helping to secure clinic staff; incentives to maintain older doctors just a few more years; and, of course, in the long run, it is more newly trained specialists in general medicine. Each of these initiatives alone is not enough, but in combination they can create the necessary incentives to attract and maintain practitioners, including in the Region of Zealand. After all, at national level, we must ensure that the necessary tools are available and, above all, that the necessary number of doctors is trained. However, I believe that the practical arrangements are best taken up locally and regionally. They are the ones who know the challenges best and thus can best point to how to solve them. Finally, I have promised from Pernille Skipper from Enhedslisten and Susanne Zimmer outside the groups, who unfortunately could not be here, to read out a text of adoption on behalf of the two rapporteurs and the undersigned: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that there are still medical coverage challenges in large parts of the country, particularly in the Region of Zealand. The Danish Parliament also recognises that an increasing number of specialists in general practice will be able to improve medical coverage in the longer term, but that other and faster measures are needed at the same time. The Danish Parliament notes that there is no support for duty obligations and that therefore this solution should not be applied. The Folketing instructs the government to convene the parties of the Folketing for negotiations to resolve the problem. • V 109). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409142233	That too will be part of the further debate. There are no brief comments, and that is why we can proceed to the Conservatives after the vote. Here you go, sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409142258	Thank you for that, Mr President-in-Office, as a conservative rapporteur, I am so privileged to come from North Jutland. As several speakers have said, it is of course problematic that the problem of medical deficiency is absolutely greatest in the region where the challenges to health are also greatest. So that calls for solutions, of course. Now we have had a question, but thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for actually raising it here even though we have a little overlap because there is a very special problem with Region Sjælland, because it is the region that is most affected. So, some of the things you can throw on the table, for example, in order to attract some young doctors, are better facilities. Well, modern medical houses with good facilities are a parasite that you can use. And so I feel a little bit, since the problem is so big: you could also say something like creating such a free-region solution, a little like Liselott Blixt's idea of having some more tools in the box. In other words, recognizing that the problem is as big as it is, the Region of Zealand may give some more degrees of freedom in order to set some initiatives in motion and try something out. However, one of the very specific problems that I think needs to be taken seriously in the Region of Zealand is the medical service coverage problem that you have in the Region of Zealand. Because as I understand it, the medical guard has not been modernised for a very long time. And that means it takes more manpower to cover the doctor's shift if you have a lot of meeting places. We ourselves have had the problem in the Region of North Jutland, where I come from and also sit on the Regional Council, and it gives just a little noise when you go in and do a modernisation. But I think it makes great sense, for example, to transport patients and those who have become ill and need medical attention to a place that may be a little further away, rather than having doctors sitting in a lot of medical centres. We have in the Region of North Jutland centered it, so there is only medical care in the emergency hospitals, and this provides a lot of benefits in relation to the guard load. For it is clear that if there is a young doctor who wants to settle down as a medical practitioner, it is of great importance whether it is the case that there are a great many night shifts and a great many weekend and evening shifts, because they can be the obstacle to making family life hang together. And then we know that there is a neighbouring region where the medical guard load is virtually non-existent, and that means that there is a competitive parameter there which offers a great advantage over those young doctors who may want to be free from medical care. So I think that in the Region of Zealand you should look at that problem and pick up the glove and say that you would like to reduce the number of shifts by simply having a little less meeting places and that you would then put in some driving arrangements so that you could bring patients to the doctor's office or that the doctor could get out to those who need it. It actually works very well, and after it was put in the lake up with us, I just have to say that I have not had a single one who has approached me with negative mention of it. It is a little important, I think, that this issue is being addressed. But I did take note of the Minister's statement that he would like to call for negotiations, and we look forward to that very much. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409142723	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. After a dissipation, thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409142746	Thank you, and thank you to DF for raising this query debate, which is a little in line with the one we had earlier. I must also honestly acknowledge that my knowledge of the precise Region of Zealand is by no means anything like that of either the rapporteur of the DF or the rapporteur of the Left in this area, and that is the way it is. One of the things I would be worried about is if the intention to address a few issues in some places creates other problems elsewhere. What I'm looking for when we're doing this is that you can solve the problems in, for example. Region Sjælland, without e.g. I believe that the main objective must be to produce results for all the regions. And I acknowledge that, as it also says, there are specific and greater challenges in the Region of Zealand than there may be around the Region of Central Jutland, where I come from, and where we have a big city like Aarhus and such things to lift a lot, and where it is unfortunately attractive for many doctors to work. So I fully acknowledge that, but I look forward to having the negotiations together addressing all the problems. For then it may be that there is a different problem in West Jutland than there is in Region Sjælland, and they all have to be dealt with, and I think we agree that they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409142933	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409142933-2	I think it is a bit comical to say that if we do something good for Region Zealand, everyone goes to Region Zealand. I don't think so. It is probably what has happened for many years that doctors are in the capital and the region of Central Jutland because they have made it attractive there because they specialize in those areas. And to come and say that it's because you're making a plan before Region Zealand is so far gone that I don't even want to ask a question, but it's just a comment to say that it was screaming.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143009	Yes, it is Friday, and I understand that the rapporteur is in the Region of Zealand and perhaps just needs to get up on the big nails. But I want a good weekend anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143019	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And since I do not see the Liberal Alliance rapporteur present in the Chamber, I can give the floor to the Minister for Health. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143043	Thank you. I didn't realize it was me now, but I'll be ready in a second. Thank you for this inquiry debate, which focuses on the medical shortage in Region Sjælland. So, as the parties do, I look forward to having us delved into it, and I think that some of what we can take from this debate is that the problem is massive in the Region of Zealand. Everything has been done, everything possible, with the existing framework conditions, but there is also a need to improve the framework conditions, otherwise this will not succeed, not by itself. According to the estimates of when more doctors will be coming, it will be many years in the future. It will take a long time to get medical training, a specialist training in general medicine, so we need to improve the framework conditions. And that applies to all the places where there are problems. Here and now it is Region Sjælland that this is all about, and it is for good reason, because it is in many parts of the region that there are some challenges. Therefore, I look forward to the discussions with the parties and then with the parties to ensure medical coverage throughout Denmark and therefore also, of course, in Region Sjælland. I understand that we may have to face up to the fact that there is not such a thing that solves everything, but there is a need to get an overview, also an overview of which tools and tools can solve a type of problem in some part of Denmark and which others need to solve other types elsewhere. This alone shows clearly the complexity of the problem: there are problems both in Denmark's largest city, where people live most closely, Copenhagen, and places where house prices are at the very opposite end of the scale and where there is a long way between peoples, for example. on Lolland; there are similar problems. And of course, the same solution cannot be used in both places. I think you have to face it. So I look forward to discussing good ideas with the parties and with the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143309	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a few brief comments. First, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143314	I will both save time, cleaning and hygiene and stay down here and say thank you to everyone for the last two queries we have had. I think the Minister has responded to us on a number of points which I will of course stick to, because I think we all have an interest in ensuring that the whole of Denmark, of course, has proper medical coverage, but when we have a specific problem in a region, that is where we have to take it. It has previously been taken in North Jutland. Now it is the Region of Zealand that we need to talk about, and of course I hope we will have the opportunity to do something more about that. So, in any case, just thank the Minister, and thank the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143355	I will return that, and I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising these two questions today. It is a relevant problem and it does not go away by itself. So it requires that we are ready to use tools and think new and also do things that may not be one hundred percent what we want, and then meet with parties and with other parties and say that it must be possible, with all good powers, to solve this problem. We have some ideas from the government. I have explained them, but I am also very happy to listen to other ideas that can help to increase the pool of ideas so that we can solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143436	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143439	Now the Socialist rapporteur said to me on a question earlier that he was at least willing to fight for full medical training as part of probably more tools, we need to get a full medical education, not just a master's degree, and it could possibly be established in connection with the University Hospital in Køge. I would just like to ask whether the Minister agrees with his party colleague and rapporteur in that view. And if so, what does the Minister intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143513	I tried to answer, when I got the question in the first round here, that it is a more complex question, when one can just say whether one is in favour or against it. And if that is a position of the Left, you can also say that it is very funny that you haven't done it in the last 20 years, if it's so easy to do. I don't think it's that easy to do. But I respect the fact that there are conciliation circles which are deeply buried in how Denmark's universities are to be organized and so on, and that is something that must be taken into account in the conciliation circles, and it is under a very different minister, whom I also trust, of course, lead the conciliation circles. And the parties can then join the relevant forum.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143552	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143553	Yes, but so, the government is government and must therefore also deal with the situation we are in, and we are discussing today what we should do in the future specifically in relation to the Region of Zealand. We can also see that it is the only region that does not have full medical training. And that is why I am asking whether the government intends to take any initiatives in this direction which I understand the Socialist rapporteur is prepared to do. So that's the only reason I'm asking. I also thank you, however, for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143620	That is quite correct, and that is why, as a minister, one is quite careful, in general, to stick to one's own resort when one speaks, because one always speaks on behalf of the whole government, and that is why it is a very good rule to say that one should stick to one's resort, so that those ministers who then have some other resort areas can stick to their resort. That is why I would recommend, if you want another distribution or new education elsewhere in relation to higher education, that you take it with the minister who has it resorted to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143653	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are no further brief comments to the Minister for Health. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 13 April 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143718	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409143728	Thank you to the President for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate, which is reopening another debate we have had, namely in connection with the adoption of a legislative proposal in the summer of 2020, which introduced a new industrial relations regime. At that time, the criticism was that the scheme would transform refugees into immigrants and thus be in stark contrast to the paradigm shift, which, as you know, must ensure temporary protection for refugees. All the figures from the similar labour market association scheme, which was applicable during the period 2011-2018, did not support that criticism. In fact, there was not a single foreigner who had previously been legally resident in Denmark as a refugee who had been granted a residence permit under the said scheme. Neither is there after the new system. Since we introduced this scheme in the summer of 2020, four residence permits have been granted under this scheme, and none of the foreigners have previously had a residence permit in Denmark as a refugee. Those figures are actually very similar to the figures that I also highlighted during the reading of the draft law a year ago. At that time I said that during a 3-year period from 2016-2018 484 residence permits were withdrawn for refugees, and out of them only 3 had worked for 2 years with the same employer prior to the decision. I now think that the rapporteur for the proposers is trying to present the existing system as a relaxation of the requirements for family-run foreigners in Denmark. As I also said in connection with the examination of the draft law, it is important to stick to what is really the aim of this less supplementary occupational scheme. It is a residence scheme designed to meet the needs of business in order to maintain foreign labour. This scheme ensures that companies that have employed a foreigner continuously for two years do not lose an esteemed colleague whom the company has spent time and resources to train and train, for example. because he has been divorced in Denmark. As is the case with most of the other occupational schemes we have, it is a requirement under this scheme that you are employed on the usual terms and conditions of employment. This means, among other things, that it must be a full-time job, i.e. 37 hours a week. The scheme is therefore not a relaxation of the requirements of family reunification in Denmark. In this respect, it is important for me to make it clear that the government wants to pursue the strict immigration policy that a broad majority in the Folketing supports. The proposers note in the proposal that this scheme means that it can be ineffective to lose your residence in Denmark. In this context, it must be said that it has always been possible for a foreigner to withdraw his or her residence permit, for example. on the basis of divorce, to stay in Denmark if he or she has a job covered by one of our occupational schemes. For example, you serve. more than approx. 36,000 kr. In the case of a Member State whose currency is not the euro, the amount of the euro shall be calculated on the basis of the currency of the Member State in which the currency is denominated in the currency of the Member State in You can also stay if you, for example, are allowed to stay. is an engineer, who is a job title written on what we call the positive list. So that's perfectly normal, and there's nothing new in it. With this scheme you have to have had 2 years of permanent work on normal Danish terms and conditions of employment. If so, you are only here because of your job and you cannot maintain your residence if you lose your job. As I see this arrangement, it is not therefore a question of giving refugees a new basis for residence in Denmark or of relaxing the requirements of family reunification in Denmark. That's not what the government wants with this scheme, and that's not how it works either. What this is about for us is giving a hand in the business sector, which is now being given the opportunity to keep a good employee in whom money, time and resources have been invested. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144105	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144109	It is, of course, gratifying if so far not so many people have taken advantage of the relaxation that the government had achieved almost before its accession, I think. Isn't that from the understanding paper it comes from? However, what is in the paper here, as the Social Democratic Party went to the polls on Justice and Realism, an alien policy that brings together Denmark is not just that one does not want to relax the rules; it is that the demands for family reunification need to be increased. That is why I would like to hear from you when it is the policy of the Social Democratic Party that we are talking about here... what concrete plans the Minister has to implement that promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144156	We have, in fact, before the election, but after a fair and realistic policy on foreigners that brings together Denmark, a broad agreement has been reached in the Danish Parliament, including the Danish People's Party, where we have tightened the conditions for marriage to Denmark. And one of the wishes that we helped bring to the table by the Social Democratic Party is another of the proposals contained in a fair and realistic policy for foreigners that brings together Denmark, namely that it should not be possible to be brought together as a family into one of the residential areas on what was then called the ghetto list. These were, I think, some good negotiations where we had better rules for family reunification, which we were happy to be part of in the social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144237	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144238	In other words, what the Social Democrats' programme says here is, and now I quote: 'Therefore, strict demands must be made on, among other things. language, education, employment and a certain prior knowledge of Denmark for seventeen spouses. You have to understand that you want something more. If strict requirements are to be imposed, it is not just enough to carry on with what is going on. At least I think that's how most people read this. And that is why it would be a good start if one (1) at least dropped the relaxation that might be granted to the Radicals, no matter how many people have used it, and (2) could give some examples of where to make these strict demands. May I just ask, in fact, how many people are going with the four people, in other words, in the form of spouses, children and so on.? Can we be told that the debate can be nuanced? For now we are talking about family reunifications, and I can at least remember an example from Aarhus, where a bus driver was very fond of • I don't remember where he came from, whether it was from Somalia • that he was allowed to stay, and then there were at least six or seven children with him; it is, however, a certain burden on the economy. So how many children are included in relation to the four people mentioned by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144353	I do not think that the famous bus driver from Viborg had anything to do with this business arrangement, as far as I remember, even though it continued to be involved in the debate. But now we are so fortunate in the Social Democratic Party that part of our foreign policy programme was actually realized even before the elections. some of the things we wrote about marriage. And when, in the actual election campaign, i.e. in 2019, we published a different version of that play, the things that had already been done, of course, did not appear. However, precisely the points raised by the questioner about the reunification of spouses were, in fact, what was included in the recent tightening up of the rules on spouse reunification; I think that was in the summer of 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144437	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144438	Thank you. We had a similar debate with the Minister yesterday on the many proposals made by the Social Democrats themselves, and on several of the points yesterday the Social Democrats were going to vote 'no', that was being done: we were working on a plan for it with the 37 hours, and the disqualification of citizenship was also being investigated, etc. But this is something the Minister can, to put it very squarely, actually just propose in the Chamber tomorrow, so why not just do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144512	I have some doubts as to what the questioner thinks when he says this. Well, what's this? Removing relief for family reunification is in the title of the resolution we are debating, but we have not made any relaxation for family reunification, so what is this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144527	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144528	I think that is very clear if you go in and look at the remarks, and that is what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also asks. So if that is not what the Minister wants, what is it that the Minister wants to do in relation to what is in the context of the Social Democracy, that is, the Social Democracy election programme?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144547	What is stated in the motion for a resolution, the Social Democratic election programme, was implemented in connection with the reform of the rules of marriage prior to the elections. What is stated in the comments to this draft law is about an occupational scheme which ensures that foreigners who have been in two years of permanent employment in the same company can have a residence on the basis of that employment. We have not said that in our foreign action, but it is something that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt rightly says, which became part of the understanding paper negotiated after the elections, but before the government's accession and which we dealt with in the Folketing in the summer of 2020, and which I now tell you has worked in a way that I myself think is satisfactory. I have no objection to the fact that more people are taking advantage of this scheme. I think it is a good thing that we have business arrangements in Denmark, and I also think that the Conservatives should consider their opposition to this scheme. Since we now have a business scheme that is used for the benefit of Danish business and Danish economy, there is no reason to involve refugee policy, especially when it has nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144643	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. This is how we proceed with the rapporteur's line, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the Social Democrat Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144704	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party is proposing to abolish an occupational scheme which we adopted last year, in which foreigners who have worked continuously in Denmark for two years can remain in the country for as long as they are in work. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that we should have strict control over immigration to Denmark from the so-called MENAP countries, which is the new category that the Minister has begun to calculate. Furthermore, we believe that it is absolutely essential that foreigners return to their home countries to a greater extent when they no longer have a residence in Denmark. However, we do not see any reason for abolishing the occupational scheme in question. It is quite harmless and it is in line with the principles that apply to our other occupational schemes. You can stay in Denmark if you are in work and contribute. If you lose your job and can't find a new one, you have to go home. In addition, the stay is subject to three conditions: (1) that foreigners are employed on proper terms and conditions of employment; (2) that they work in a full-time position; and (3) that they have worked in a full-time position with the same employer for two years. In other words, we see no problem in the fact that our business community can retain and retain labour from which they have benefited and benefited. Finally, it is also worth mentioning that there are hardly any foreigners who make use of the scheme... four residence permits have been granted since June last year. None of these have had refugee status in the past. The Social Democrats do not therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144830	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144833	What the Social Democratic Party promised was to tighten the requirements in terms of language, education, employment and a certain prior knowledge of Denmark. What was then done, even before you sat down in government chairs, was to say that if a foreigner, a refugee, a family member or whatever it may have been, had worked for two years, the basis of residence, even if the basis of residence had to fall, would not fall anyway. That is a clear relaxation, and there are already examples of its use. Although perhaps not so many people have taken advantage of what was thought we are still waiting for the answer to how many people are going to follow the four amendments, would the rapporteur not agree that it is a clear relaxation in the law on foreigners that, because you have been working for two years, you may be allowed to stay regardless of whether language, education and the other requirements have been met, even if you had previously been sent home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409144932	No, I don't want to admit that. For many years we have had different types of occupational schemes. We have the positive list, which is based on education, and it could also be what kind of training a refugee has; we have the sum scheme, which is based on what income one has, and it could also be an income that a refugee has. Therefore, there is nothing wrong with someone who has come here as a refugee, who loses his residence as a refugee and therefore has to leave, but who has in the meantime received training relevant to the positive list or an income relevant to the amount scheme. In the same way, this third arrangement is what we are talking about today. If you have been in work for two years on proper terms and conditions of employment with the same employer, there is nothing wrong with changing the basis of residence and moving to that scheme. It is an occupational scheme on an equal footing with the other two, which I have just mentioned. And I do not regard business arrangements as a relaxation of foreign policy. I mean, it's two different things. Of course, you can say that this has something to do with foreign policy, but I do not regard it as a relaxation of the aspect of refugee policy, that is, of people's asylum status, because it is no longer an asylum team base.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145035	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145036	So when an asylum seeker gets legal residence by virtue of a different status but should have been deployed if that rule change had not been implemented, are these not amendments to the asylum law? That is the first question. The second question - and I have time to ask this - is: will the rapporteur confirm that if you have been legally resident under the new rule that has been forced through by the Reds, you will also be allowed to keep your family here and that it is thus also a relaxation of family reunification rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145106	The first part is right. If you no longer have asylum status in Denmark, you have to leave unless you have a different residence basis. There we have such different occupational schemes, and just as a Chinese or an American can apply for an occupational scheme, foreigners who are in Denmark can also apply for an occupational scheme if they can meet some criteria. Four residence permits have been granted since June of last year in relation to the occupational system we are talking about today. There have been four people who have been able to live up to it and none of them have had refugee status when they got this residence basis. That is why I think that the criticism of this scheme is somewhat out of proportion, since it is not the refugees who use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145148	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145151	I am just a little puzzled by how you can spend so much time promoting what you call a business scheme, which four people have used, and then you go out and say: Don't worry, only four have used it, and none of them are refugees. - Sir... Rasmus Stoklund put me in on how to find so much joy in talking your own bill down?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145214	First of all, I actually think that this is something we have spent a lot of time promoting is very fun. The way I remember it, it's actually sir. Marcus Knuth and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and several others who have spent a lot of time promoting this scheme because they have had a desire to use it in a scaremongering campaign. I actually feel very quiet about this scheme, just as I do with various other business schemes. I think it is a good thing that we have business arrangements for people who can be useful in Danish society, and I have no desire to abolish them or to involve them in a discussion about refugees, because I do not think it is very relevant, and the figures show that in this context too. The four residence permits granted here are not granted to refugees. But the promotion, I think, we can thank Mr. Marcus Knuth and others too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145254	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145255	But do we agree that it can be sought as a fugitive?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145302	Yes, of course. In other words, all people in the world can apply for a Danish business scheme. This one is so conditional on having already had a legal stay in Denmark and then being able to work 2 years under the same employer on proper terms and conditions of employment, and it is clear that there are not so many who are able to do so. And as far as refugees are concerned, since June last year no one has been able to do so at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145325	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145345	Thank you for the floor. We are in the process of such a longer séance, which extends over several days, when, at the request of the Danish People's Party, we review requests that have been made in the government's aliens' initiative • Justice and realistic • an alien policy that brings Denmark together in 2018. And to the extent that the Danish People's Party does not think they have been implemented here in the Assembly Hall, it has been helpful to be a birth aider on this series of proposals that we are now working on. This is one of them. I understand we have one right after, and we had a few yesterday. It is actually entertaining to be involved in implementing government policy, even though the government itself will not be involved in it. The voters were promised that the requirements for family reunification should be increased, and then, according to their foreign policy, one was in the situation that one would tighten the requirements for language and for education and for employment and demand some kind of prior knowledge of Denmark from the spouses who want to be brought together with their family in Denmark. So we have not had these demands tightened. Proposers wonder why the government believes, on the one hand, that we need stricter rules for spouses who want to go to Denmark, and, on the other hand, that they are included in an understanding paper which then goes in the other direction. The government is to remove the arrangement that family members who lose their residence in Denmark do not have to leave if they have had a job for at least 2 years. The residence scheme, which is based on labour relations, introduced the government with its support parties last year, and this is, of course, a direct proof that one has written one about something, and then one does something else in practice. And this is an example of being tighter in writing than you are in the real world. And so there is so much. But it is also difficult to live up to a strict and consistent foreign policy when it comes to navigating the government's basis of government. That is what we have to face up to here. If the government really believes that it wants to increase the demands in the area of family reunification, then it has to follow up with legislation to roll back this residence scheme. In fact, there is a pattern of the government not being quite as strict as they would otherwise like to say, but in order for the government to show that they are really strict and consistent in the matter of family reunification, we are voting in favour of the resolution. It is probably not the proposal that will have the greatest impact on policy in general in this area. I do not think that any of what some people are saying here today goes into the history books. However, I often feel that way when we stand here, and especially here today. But we would like to back up this whole exercise, which the Danish People's Party has started, that the government should implement its own policy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145702	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145706	I am sorry that I cannot help the rapporteur to get into the history books today. I'd like to work on that another time. But I would like to hear Mr. Mads Birde's thoughts on what this scheme can lead to. As you know, in recent years we have had a number of Syrians whose basis of residence seems to be falling away. Could it be imagined that some of them will soon take advantage of this scheme, in which case, if only someone in the family has worked for two years, you can convert your refugee status into an employment status and thus get the whole family to stay in Denmark? Is this a scenario, as Mr. Mads Birded by these rules will consider realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145753	In other words, we in the Left have always been in favour of business arrangements, and then there are arrangements that so lie between different things, and what we are afraid of is that this system can be used to work from asylum status to permanent residence. There have not been many examples of this yet, but it is only now that we are faced with the challenge of the many, many Syrians who have come to Denmark and who want to be here permanently. And I think we are going to see that this opportunity will be used, and we are very sceptical about that, and we are very zealous that we keep an eye on it not being so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145837	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left. I do not see the rapporteur from the SF in the Chamber. On the other hand, I can see Radical Left rapporteur jumping out of the chair and going against the platform thank you for that. The rapporteur of the Radicals is hereby given the floor, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409145904	Thank you very much. I think it was a very good day when this Parliament adopted the two-year rule, that is, when we introduced a new residence scheme based on labour relations. This means that refugees and family members who have been in employment in Denmark for two years but are on the way to including their original residence basis, or who could not look forward to extending their original residence basis, can now have this new residence basis based on labour relations. Because with the 2-year rule, a hole was struck in the paradigm shift. And with the paradigm shift, refugees were deprived of all motivation to integrate and to get into employment, for no matter how much effort they made to integrate, it should count as little as possible in the calculation of how much the relationship with Denmark was. This is basically also about labour, and in this respect I would like to say that I think it is an historic day when the rapporteur of the Left recently expressed his support for this motion for a resolution. For when it comes to labour, it certainly seems to me that if companies are to be able to see the scam of spending a lot of resources on training and training refugees in the Danish labour market, so that they can benefit from the labour force, then the incentive is all the greater if the company can expect that the employee they are throwing a lot of effort at can also stay in the country and not be sent back later to its country of origin. There is very common sense in that and there is absolutely no reason to roll it back in whole or in part. On the contrary, we in the Radical Left believe that we should extend the system so that education is also covered by the 2-year rule. With those words, I can say that the Radical Left does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150109	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it comes from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150114	Thank you for that, President. Not an evil word between us, because of course the Radicals will not support a proposal that will cancel a radical victory. It would be weird if they did. What I should just like to ask is whether the rapporteur can not confirm that when a person is legally resident on the workers' scheme here, his or her family will also be legally resident, so that the whole family will, so to speak, follow, so that it is not only the person, but also children, spouses and so on, who, by virtue of the family reunification rules, should have actually been sent home, but are legally resident in Denmark because of the relaxation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150154	Of course, it's part of it, and we see it as something quite natural, so that you're also here with your family. And in this case, when you have contributed and worked actively, I do not think you should be punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150212	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150213	Thank you. Then, with regard to the people mentioned by the Minister, I would really just like to know very briefly whether the rapporteur has any idea how many family members are involved there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150226	No, I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150229	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150257	Thank you to the forewoman. There's no watch on here, but I'm trying. Yeah, now come the watch. Although for many people it may be the same, whether you come here as a refugee, where you are persecuted or where your home country is at war, or whether you come in by other means, for example. because you marry a Dane or through various work visas. Whether we welcome refugees in Denmark is very different in this House, but that is not what we are discussing now, because refugees and immigrants are two different things. If we then deal with the immigration issue, the question of whether we should be able to have a family with our girlfriend in the country in which we were born, or whether we should be able to come to Denmark and help us in the areas where we lack labour, I would say that over the last many years, with the support of changing governments, the proposers have made it almost impossible for people without a European passport to come to Denmark. The fact that in the Enhedslisten we are major opponents of the xenophobic policy, which has been the common thread in the struggle for the voters over the last few decades, is of course no surprise. We believe that it should be easier to get to Denmark when you want to be a part of society. We believe that you should have the right to marry the one you love without having to move from Denmark. We believe that children with Danish citizenship should not risk their one parent suddenly being sent out of the country. But what is particularly important now that we have created a system that makes it almost impossible to enter the country is that the legislation applies equally to all those who apply to come to Denmark. You are not a burden to society when you come here to live here with your spouse, you are not a burden to society when you come here to work, and you are no more in love with a person from the United States than you are in a South American country. To go in and differentiate who should be allowed to come to the country solely on the basis of where he was born is not only totally unreasonable, but also an expression of a disgusting view of human beings. It shows that only a few people are good enough to work, only a few people are good enough to fall in love with, and how on earth, as politicians, are we to decide whether our fellow citizens may fall in love with a Chinese or a Canadian? We're not going to do that by any means. The majority have tightened the rules so much that it is almost impossible to get to Denmark in advance, and we are not going to make rules where a person in such a way meets all the unreasonable demands we make, but then cannot be allowed to do so because he is from another country. The law must be equal for everyone, including for those who were not born here, and therefore the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150547	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150549	Thank you. And, of course, I congratulate the rapporteur on getting this relaxation through even before the government had taken proper steps. What I would like to ask is whether the rapporteur will not just confirm that when a person departs from refugee status, who then falls away and is legally resident as a worker, it is not only the person himself, but the whole of his or her family, spouse and children, who are thus also going from having been sent out of the country to having legal residence in the country; in other words, it is also a relaxation of the family reunification rules for the persons associated with the main character.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150630	Well, I think that's a small relief, and it doesn't matter either. It should have been much bigger in our opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150637	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150639	I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can say anything about the cases mentioned by the Minister where the rule has been applied since it was adopted. Does the rapporteur have any idea how many children have followed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150652	No, I haven't, because I don't work every day with this. I'm a substitute for Rosa Lund today. And I would say that it is my feeling that it is very few.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150701	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Can I ask the rapporteur exactly to prepare for the next rapporteur? The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Christian Juhl Then we must clean very thoroughly. There must be a clean table). I'll keep an eye on that, it looks very promising. Thank you. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150734	Thank you, President. And I would like to thank the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten for cleaning up extra well now that I am going up here. I am glad that there was no comment like that in the United Nations, when President Bush had been on the platform, and where, was it the President of Brazil?, said when he took over the platform afterwards: here smells of sulphur. Well, I'd like to begin by apologizing to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund for not wearing a tie. Unfortunately, it speaks into the false story that Social Democracy has become more conservative than the Conservative People's Party, but at least I can see that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is not wearing ties either, and he himself has declared himself to be, but in any case this is now the fourth time we are standing here with a motion for a resolution that the Social Democrats will not be so kind as to comply with their own policies, and they will not do so again. Mads Fuglede said this isn't a historic moment. In fact, I think that this is an historic moment when social democracy repeatedly refuses to implement its own policy. Now I read up from the play-out "Righteous and Realistic": "There is a special need to make demands on the spouses. It would, of course, be right-hand to abolish the so-called 'business' system, also known as asylum facilitation, which makes it easier to stay in Denmark if you have a job, also as a refugee. Unfortunately, however, the Social Democratic Party will not. So it sounds a little hollow when we have a Social Democrat who spends a lot of time not least in these days saying that Syrian refugees are going home. But when it comes down to family reunification, you really will not vote for your own policy. I think it's very hollow. Again: Thanks to the Danish People's Party for putting forward the proposal, which we naturally support, because the government, the Social Democratic Party, should of course comply with its own policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150934	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150937	I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he agrees with me that it was not President Lula of Brazil who was in the chair at the United Nations, but that it was Mr Lula of Brazil who spoke. Hugo Chávez, president of Venezuela.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150954	That's right. Thank you for that correction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409150959	For example, there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, but fortunately there is another weed weed to ensure that the platform is completely cleaned. It's scentless. And so welcome to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409151018	Yes, you have to know your socialists and Communists. That's the way it is. It was nice, it is actually reassuring, because it is often said that we politicians are machines, but there are some wonderful linguistic errors here on a Friday afternoon which also show that even we are getting tired. I would like to start by saying that, of course, we can support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. I would like to get some figures on this, because this is now being mentioned with the four people who have applied and been allocated this and who are not refugees. I would like to dive into that, I think the figure is interesting, and I would like to know how many people would actually be able to apply for it at this stage if they wanted it. And in that statement I would like to know how many of those who have been granted refugee status or family reunification status still have that status. It is of course not relevant to seek, if there is perhaps that there are not so many who have applied for this scheme because they do not need to apply for it. That is why we would like to get it figured out and then perhaps also to know what forecasts we have on how many people are then expected to apply, also bearing in mind that there are four who have applied now. For we have only just moved into the period when people who have come here for many years from Syria are starting to go home. There are 137 who have voluntarily returned from Denmark. And if you think about what that share will hopefully be in a very short time when the government is starting to send more of these people home, then I think this figure could easily grow, and that's where the problem lies. That's where we have a concern, because what does it do to Danish society if this number grows? So I would like to know these figures when we have to deal with this work by committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409151209	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409151217	It is not certain that the rapporteur will accept short remarks on Fridays, but I am still trying to do so. Does the rapporteur not find it a little problematic if Danes are well received with families and children around the world when we come and work there, and are even offered to stay there if we want to become citizens there, instead of being sent home, and then we do the opposite when someone comes here and does us the favour of sharing in a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409151247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409151248	Yeah, if that's the case, but it's just not factually correct. If you come here and apply for and get a work permit like that, that's not a problem. What I am talking about is people who have had refugee status, and these are very different people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409151301	Isn't there a wish for another brief comment to Mr. Christian Juhl? No, good. There will then be no further brief remarks to the rapporteur of the New Civil Liberties Committee, and since I still do not see the Liberal Alliance present in the debate, I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409151323	Thank you for that, President, and thank you again to the bourgeois rapporteurs for supporting us in helping the government to honour the promises it made to its electorate prior to the elections. After all, we are on an odyssey into social democratic idea development, which was launched in 2018, even though the party's president on the front page promised that it would both fair and realistic. So far, I do not know who it has been fair to, but it has apparently not been realistic. That is why, in the Danish People's Party, we have chosen to make the proposals which the Social Democrats have so far been unable to make available to us. So one of them is about what is on page 15, paragraph 3, of the Socialist programme, namely that the demands for family reunification must be increased. Now we hear from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, that it is all about an employment scheme so that companies can get the much-needed workforce that is needed. Apparently, there is an incredibly great shortage of foreigners who can get into driving taxis and buses, and what do I know about all the highly qualified labour that the Danes themselves are unable to deal with because it is probably the kind of jobs that we have to learn the language in such a short period of time, and what do I know is able to dispute if we get here on the arrangements we have talked about here. What is at the heart, however, is who follows, because many of these families are quite child-rich. Many of the children may not be as hard-working and as law enforcement as their parents, but are traditionally causing problems in many residential areas around the country. That is why I have tried to ask those parties who have forced this relaxation of immigration policy through what it really means in the area of family reunification, and we still do not have the answer, yes, which is being shouted in the woods. Then the Minister remarkably says that there are only four people who have found their way through the needle's eye since the relaxation took place. This means, of course, that there had to be sounds, yes, perhaps a sigh of relief from blue camp and a rage from the Radicals maybe that's why they have left the Chamber, but at least that's the big question, yes, what the future looks like. We know that these 40,000 Syrians who have come to Denmark in recent years are facing, many of them, having to go home, which means that the basis for their stay is disappearing, at least as refugees. Many of them probably look through the Aliens Act with a close comb to see if there is another residence. That is why I think that the question that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen traveled, not only is essential, but perhaps the most important thing, namely what the estimates really are: how many are 1 month, 2 months, 1⁄2 years from having met the requirements in order to be able to convert his residence basis from refugee status, which may soon fall away, to be able to enter into it, sir. Rasmus Stoklund very floromvundendt calls a business arrangement, and how many follow with the two children, are they four children? We don't know. All we know is that this was the next stop at our odyssey into the social democratic breach, but we must move on, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409151712	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and so we can move forward. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that this proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409151734	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409151757	Thank you for the floor and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. I would like to start by recognising the importance of each country deciding when and how long there is a need to reintroduce temporary border controls at internal borders. This has been the position of the Social Democratic Party even before the last parliamentary elections, and nothing has changed on that point since the government took office. Indeed, we share the opinion of the proposers that each country should be able to decide for itself when border controls need to be reinstated and how long there is a need to maintain controls at the internal Schengen borders. In fact, it is also Denmark's starting point that we are reintroducing border controls at internal borders as long as there is a serious threat to public order or internal security, and that is why we have reinstated temporary border controls since 4 January 2016. It must be extended from time to time. The proposers will require the government to ensure the reform of Schengen cooperation by the end of this year, so that each country decides for itself when and how long it wishes to control its own borders. I have two comments to make on this, which means that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Firstly, the government cannot, of course, individually guarantee the reform of Schengen cooperation, which is why it would also be wrong to impose that task on the government. Secondly, it is already the individual Schengen country that, in terms of the protection of internal security, assesses and decides on its own basis whether and how long border controls must be reinstated. On the other hand, there is good reason to ask whether the existing rules are flexible enough and that brings me to the issue of the reform of the Schengen acquis. The European Commission has already announced in September last year that it will propose a reform of Schengen cooperation, which is why the Commission has also started a process in which we are all discussing the need for reform. The discussion began in November, and I expect it to be concluded at the end of the spring of this year, i.e. before the summer holiday. The Commission is then expected to present a legislative package for the reform of Schengen cooperation. The government believes that there is a need for reform of the rules and will be central to the ability of the Member States to decide for themselves when and how long temporary border controls at internal borders should be reinstated and that this possibility should be made more flexible. Therefore, in line with what the Social Democrats voted for, at the first meeting in November, in other words last year, in what is called the Schengen Forum, where we started the discussion on the reform of the rules on the Danish side, I have strongly pointed out that it is necessary for Schengen to be reformed to provide for a greater degree of flexibility when it comes to the Member States' ability to reintroduce temporary border controls at internal borders and to carry out controls on those who enter Denmark, because I believe that it is only national authorities that can assess when the protection of internal security requires the reintroduction of temporary border controls. It is therefore a Danish priority to ensure that Member States are more flexible in terms of reintroducing temporary border controls. In conclusion, I would like to say that I sense that the proposers and the government agree on the objective in a long way: clarification that it is each Schengen country that can assess whether there is a need for controls on the internal Schengen borders, and that therefore it is also essential that it is each country's own government that makes such a decision. It is clear that rules are needed in this area, but it is also clear that flexible rules are needed to ensure that the government of each country can reinstate temporary border controls at internal borders when it considers that it is needed to ensure law and order and internal security. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152132	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister, first from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152137	It was indeed a section that we in the Danish People's Party studied with zealous interest when the Social Democratic Party brought it, i.e. on border controls, not least because it was the Social Democrat who at Poul Nyrup Rasmussen led Denmark into Schengen cooperation against our recommendations and warnings back in the late 1990s. Whatever the case, a promise has been made here that it will be changed so that it is the government or parliament that will be able to control the Danish border in the future and where it is not so to come with the hat in its hand in Brussels and ask for permission. I would like to know if you could be a little more specific about what you have actually done. If it was I who sat in the government, I would say that this is such an important issue that we simply have it on the agenda for a summit, that is to say the meetings where the prime ministers meet and discuss the economic position or the green transition, etc., and so that would be the most obvious, I would say. But what are some concrete measures, in other words proposals, that have been put forward in order to live up to its promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152240	We have exercised our influence by first presenting our own position and our own policy at the Schengen Forum held in November, which is part of the political discussions leading to the Commission presenting its legislation. And we hope, as I said, that agreement has been reached before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152308	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152309	So no concrete proposals have been put forward? Okay. Well, this government has reappointed Mrs Margrethe Vestager. Is that something that has been secured by her support? Is this something on which we can count on the Socialist Members of the European Parliament to put forward proposals? I have not been able to see that the proposal has been put forward by any of the current members of the Socialist Group down there. So the government hasn't made a proposal? Yes or no? Has the Danish Commissioner been sworn in on the proposal? Yes or no? And have the Danish Social Democrats tabled the proposal? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152346	The Commissioners with whom we are discussing this are, of course, the Commissioners who have something to do with border controls. It goes without saying, and it is not Mrs Margrethe Vestager. We have put forward our proposals in the discussions that have taken place between ministers responsible for the area, which began in November and which we hope will be concluded before the summer recess, so that the European Commission can subsequently present a legislative package. And what has been the most important thing on our part is that it is the government of each country that can assess for itself whether there is a need to reintroduce border controls. There are several different models that are being presented, and what is crucial for us is where the competence to assess whether the rules for introducing border controls are being met lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152437	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152439	Thank you. I just have to say that I think this is so hypocritical. Yesterday we discussed the Social Democrats' own proposal to be able to deprive people of Danish citizenship by drug crime, and Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, that the reason why it has not been implemented is that it is against international conventions. Nevertheless, it was the proposal of the Social Democratic Party. Now we can read here that the Social Democrats will be working for a reform of Schengen work, and now the Minister is saying that the reason why they have not done so is because a country cannot do it on its own. But why on earth has this been written? I mean, you've gone to the polls on some things where you say that we didn't intend to do that. Can the Minister explain to me the logic of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152521	What our programme says is that as long as there is no control over the EU's external border and the risk of terrorist attacks, Denmark must maintain border controls, and this government has extended border controls since we arrived. Then it also says that the Social Democrats will work for a reform of Schengen cooperation. That reform is under way, we are part of the one we have put forward our ideas, and I am also very happy to present to Parliament what we have said. I would very much like to do so, and it may be in the Committee on European Affairs or the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And it also says here: so the starting point is that it is the individual countries who can decide for themselves when and how long they want to control their own borders. That is exactly what we have presented in the European discussions, and I would even say that the timeframe here is that we hope that an agreement can be made in the early summer. I will then translate it into the pre-summer holidays, so that the Commission can subsequently present legislation. They are the ones authorised to present legislation in the EU system. In fact, I think it is quite straightforward on the road, and I also believe that some of the other countries in Europe that have border controls • Sweden, Austria, Germany, France for that matter • are interested in this reform process and Schengen cooperation. So that is actually one of the things I am quite convinced of, in other words, that changes are going to take place here and it is going to draw in the direction of the nation states having greater influence, and that is only positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152644	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152645	Honestly, is the Minister in a very serious position saying that the reform of Schengen, which is currently being discussed in Brussels, is driven by the Danish Social Democratic Party? I'd be surprised to hear that. That's not how I understand it. It's about something to dress up with borrowed feathers. Will the Minister comment on that? In addition, is the reform under way right now targeted that we should have self-determination over border controls back in the national parliaments? Because that's not exactly how I understand the work being done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152716	I have not argued at any time that the current Schengen reform process is due to the fact that the Social Democrats in Denmark have proposed it. I am just saying that a Schengen reform process is under way. The first meeting was held in November, and we have presented the position that is also reflected in the Fair and Realisable. It is too early to conclude what the result will be, but when I sit and listen to the countries, perhaps especially to those who, like Denmark, have had border controls, I can well hear that there is a desire for the nation states to be able to assess for themselves when the conditions for border controls are met, and incidentally, whether they are red or blue governments, I can see that this is something that we reasonably agree on. That is why, in addition to a hope, I also have an expectation that it will somehow form part of what I hope will be the political agreement before the summer recess and, as I said before, I would very much like to discuss both with the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, if there is an interest in it. I myself believe that this is an important political process now under way at European level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152821	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152823	Thank you. Can the Minister mention a time in recent Danish history, e.g. for the last 30-35 years, when there has been no risk of terrorist attacks against Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152833	I'm afraid I'm not gonna be able to comment on that. However, the intelligence service regularly publishes such threat assessments, and if you put them next to each other, you can see how the threat level has gone up and down. I do not dare to say whether, at any time in the last 30 years, there has been an assessment that has said that there was no threat. I just don't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152852	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152853	No, but these aren't threats. That's a risk. For as the Social Democrats have suggested: as long as the EU's borders and the risk of terrorist attacks are not controlled, Denmark must maintain border controls. That is why it is extremely important to mention a time and whether the Minister can imagine that there will be a time in the future when there will be no risk of a terrorist attack in Denmark. Because if that is the case, this border control must never be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152922	What we write here in fair and realistic terms is, of course, a reference to what are the conditions for maintaining border controls, and it has actually changed in Denmark. At one point it has been said that it was for the sake of terrorist attacks, and at another time it has been said that it was for the sake of migration. So, the explanatory statement in Denmark has also changed. But that is what we are insisting here on, and we have done so. We have maintained it, written to the Commission, we intend border controls to continue, and we have also justified it by the rules contained in the Schengen acquis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152956	The next brief remark is to Mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409152957	I have only one question, and it is not as part of the controversy, but just to be wiser: is there really a mandate in the European Committee for this reform of Schengen under the auspices of the European Union? Because I wasn't aware of that myself. So it's just to get smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153015	In fact, I was wondering about it myself, because I was just about to say it before, and I suppose Parliament knows this because the Committee on European Affairs has been informed. But I was not a hundred per cent sure that I have been past the European Committee orally. But I would very much like to follow up on that. To the extent that a mandate is to be obtained, I really hope for myself that it has been caught up, otherwise I am at least in a hurry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153036	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, and so the rapporteur's line can begin, and the first rapporteur to speak is the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153059	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party proposes to ensure a reform of Schengen cooperation so that each country decides for itself when and how long it wishes to control its own borders. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that border controls at Danish border crossings are crucial in combating irregular migration, organised crime and terrorism, and we believe that Denmark should be more able to decide for itself how long and in what cases we should be able to introduce border controls. As the rules are today, there is only the possibility of introducing temporary border controls within Schengen for shorter periods of time, but only in cases where there is a serious threat to public policy or internal security in a Member State. Based on the current rules, in recent years we have introduced temporary border controls for Germany and Sweden as a consequence of the refugee crisis in 2015 and cross-border gang crime from Sweden to Denmark. As the European Commission is about to present a proposal for a reform of Schengen cooperation, I know that work is under way to ensure that Denmark is more self-determination over border controls. Other EU countries such as Germany, France and Austria, like Denmark, want more autonomy over border controls, so hopefully there are good chances of success. That is why the Social Democrats do not support the motion for a resolution, as work is already under way, which hopefully will give us more autonomy over border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153226	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Social Democratic Party, no, sorry, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153232	I've been called worse! Now, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, of course, a member of the European Committee, and the Minister was not quite sure whether the European Committee had been sworn in in relation to these major plans, which the Social Democrats had already presented in 2018, for how to change Schengen cooperation. And I know that sir... Rasmus Stoklund was not a member of the Danish Parliament in 2018, but he was in 2019 just like me. And in the two years, from 2019 onwards, with the elections and up to now, the plan that has been set out in the Socialist proposals here, has been presented to the European Committee? And sir... Rasmus Stoklund try to say a little about what it contains?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153317	I must begin by saying that I do not know whether that plan has been presented to the Committee on European Affairs, but I believe that, according to what the Minister, who was on the floor just before me, said about his examining the extent to which a mandate has been informed and obtained. What is at the bottom of this is that the government wants this reform process to lead to individual governments in Europe in EU cooperation and in Schengen cooperation themselves assessing whether or not border controls should be introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153349	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153351	I do not know whether or not in this Parliament we should say that we should not be in the European Parliament, but it has a certain significance for the government's real will to implement what has been said. So you are just waiting for the Commission to come up with a proposal? As a rule, a mandate is obtained in the Committee on European Affairs after a proposal has been made, and then you can vote on it and then negotiate on it. Or has the Danish Government taken the lead? That's what we'd like to do, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, for that was promised to your constituents. And if you are just sitting here waiting for a Commission proposal to come forward, but by the way, you have not taken the Danish Commissioner's oath on it, then it will be a little vague.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153440	First of all, it is not necessarily the case that because a Commissioner is Danish, it is relevant. It is of course relevant to a Commissioner if it is a Commissioner who has something to do with border cooperation. After all, the government has never concealed the importance of reforming Schengen so that the respective countries themselves have greater control over when they want to introduce border controls. And that is also the message that the government has brought into these negotiations and which I think the Minister has explained very well just now. And I don't think there's much to add there. What amazes me a little is why you try to draw a picture that it should be something that the Social Democracy in Denmark, even before you took over the government, should have been a driving force in that way. In other words, the crucial thing must be that we have a cat here that catches mice, so that we want to reform this Schengen cooperation. That is probably what is important to all of us in this context, and that is why I think it might also be a little • and, of course, I should be careful to say so as one of the slightly more ridiculous motions for resolutions, just like those tabled by Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt himself referred to his other motions for resolutions as yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153546	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153547	Thank you. I would like to know a little more whether the Social Democrats are in favour of a permanent border control, or whether you only want a temporary one in a limited area until you do not think that it is needed anymore, and whether the ideal situation would actually be that there was no border control whatsoever in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153608	After all, we are interested in maintaining Schengen cooperation, because it is of great benefit to Denmark. It gives us access to information about people entering the Schengen group. This is a great advantage for the police and prosecutors and for the immigration authorities and the work involved in identifying people, conducting legal proceedings, etc. There will be a lot of consequences from starting to go alone in this context, in other words to start to introduce a permanent border control, which would run counter to Schengen cooperation, because this could ultimately lead to the withdrawal of cooperation, and then we would miss out on some of the information that I have just pointed out here, and that would be detrimental to Denmark. We have a desire to gain greater control over when we can introduce border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153657	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153658	I understand that, because when you read the playout here, the condition is that there should be a risk of a terrorist attack, and when I examine my memory, I cannot think of a time when there has been no risk of terrorist attacks against Denmark. Can the rapporteur think of a time in recent Danish history when there has been no risk of terrorist attacks against Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153715	The terrorist threat, when you read PET's threat assessments, at least for a number of years, perhaps especially after both 9/11 and the Muhammad crisis, has moved towards a major Islamic threat to Denmark. It is not always something that requires people to come from abroad. It could be people who are already here. I cannot say that on a stand-by basis whether there have been years over the last 30 years when there have been no terrorist threats to Denmark, but I agree with the rapporteur that this is a real challenge. That is also why I think it is good that we are in Schengen cooperation, so that we have access to some of the information collected by the various Member States.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153759	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Mads Birded. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409153825	Thank you for the floor. In the Left we share the surprise of the authors of the motion that the government has not yet put forward all the policies on which it has been elected. Of course, there is still time, but we look forward to more happening. As part of this exercise, the Danish Government is proposing that we should work towards a reform of Schengen cooperation, and I can then understand that the work the government thinks it has started. The aim is for individual countries to decide for themselves when, where and how long they wish to control their own borders. That is clear speech, but since the entry into government offices, we have not seen any result of this, and we look forward, of course, to having more in that account. The Left itself has proposed a reform of Schengen cooperation. Freedom of movement is the cornerstone of EU cooperation and is of great importance for the Danish economy and the many Danes who move across the border daily when conditions at home are at it. Since the refugee crisis in 2015, it has also been clear that border controls have come to remain. We must shield Denmark from the pressure for refugees and cross-border crime that has increased to a great extent. That is why the Left wants an intelligent border control, using modern technology to make life easier for commuters, tourists and traders, but obviously more difficult for criminals. In other words, we need to strike a better balance between the rights of free movement on the one hand and security on the other. We have therefore been looking forward for several years to hearing the government present its proposal to reform Schengen cooperation, and we are still waiting for that. We sincerely look forward to working on this, because it has been heartblood for us that this task is being carried out. It could be argued, as I think is part of the exercise here today, that this is just as much about saying one thing and doing another, but now we are touching something that is very important for the Left, namely how to look after our country in the best way possible, and thus invest in new technology, which will ensure that we can do it here and engage in cooperation which means that we are taking care of national interests in the best way possible, but also the cooperation we are part of. We look forward to further work on this particular issue and, in particular, to hearing more about what is happening in the Committee on European Affairs and so on. in this area, and hear news from the negotiations in that forum. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154114	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I can see that, sir. Mr Morten Messerschmidt has asked for the floor for a brief comment (Morten Messerschmidt Did I ask for the floor? I don't remember). Okay, he's gonna drop out. Then there is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Beyer de Ryke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154130	Thank you. Now I assume that Mr. Mads Birded are still a member of the Left. The Left has been in a government... a government that was supported by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt or at least his party so I would like to ask: what happened during that period or during the periods from 2000 onwards with the Schengen Agreement? We have discussed these things very, very many times, and I think we sometimes shoot at each other and forget that we have something behind us. I mean, if you look over your shoulder, you have to take responsibility over time for your own actions when you have had a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154208	It is true that in 2019 we presented the view that we wanted Schengen to be reformed and that we had to invest 50 million. kr. We wanted to find another way of lifting this, and it was also a job we wanted to do in the EU context. And that is why it is gratifying for us that we are now, I understand from the Minister, doing something that sounds to me as a continuation of the work we started at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154254	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154256	Well, now we've been talking Schengen cooperation for a lot of years, not just in 2018, 2019 and 2020. In fact, we have been discussing this for as long as there have been discussions about refugees and how they have access to the area. We've even had a pretty big discussion here... was it in 2017 or 2018? Does the rapporteur not think that it is a little slow for the bourgeois to work in this context, if one is so interested that it should all happen as quickly as we are now being told that it should happen today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154328	I don't know if this has anything to do with haste. After all, it is always important to have control over who comes in and out of a country that is up to date. Now the questioner himself asked when we had done something last, and I replied to that as best I could. The last time we carried out that task was back in 2019, and it's something we've looked at before. And that's why we're just glad that it's still something you focus on. We don't think this has anything to do with working fast or slow; we're just glad it's a job that's being lifted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154405	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And since I do not see the SF's rapporteur present in the Chamber, the next rapporteur is the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mr. Kristian Hegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154551	I'm just going right through border controls here on the way up. It may take some time sometimes, but fortunately it succeeded. The Danish People's Party is proposing here that we should oppose the EU's free movement. It is a well-known position on the part of the Danish People's Party and it is an equally well-known view that the Radical Left is in favour of the free movement of the European Union. Schengen cooperation is cooperation between a number of European countries with the aim of creating a common area without internal borders. So, with the proposals of the Danish People's Party, we will actually withdraw from this cooperation. In the latest inventory and it is even before corona it is stated that 2.3 million man-hours have been spent on border controls, and that goes from other tasks that the police could otherwise have done. For example, it takes 5 hours on average to investigate a burglary. Thus more than 400,000 more burglar cases could have been investigated if different priorities had been given to them. It is fair enough that the proposers of the Danish People's Party want more people to look at red beet passports and fewer people to solve real crime. There we see that the police themselves will have better opportunities to prioritise their own resources in order to combat crime effectively. Managing borders must be wise, intelligent and effective. That is why we need technological solutions such as the scanning of wanted plates, etc. However, when we do not have internal borders in Schengen, it is important to maintain external borders within the framework of the European Union. This is an important principle of free movement, and therefore it is important to strengthen Frontex and other efforts within the framework of the European Union, and it strongly supports the Radical Left. On the other hand, we cannot support the motion for a resolution here, which seeks to circumvent Schengen cooperation. It will be detrimental to businesses and it will downgrade the police's resources for burglary and other crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154816	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154819	Thank you. I believe that both the views of the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left on border controls are well known. All I have to ask the rapporteur to confirm is that the proposal before us today has been formally tabled by the Danish People's Party, but of course the Social Democrats' proposal. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154837-2	I know what we are discussing today is the proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154843	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154843-2	The rapporteur has not realized that what we are discussing today is a proposal that one by one reproduces what the Social Democracy put forward as its proposal in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154856	When I read the resolution and look at who put it forward, I can see that they are all members of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154904	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154906	Thank you. The rapporteur says that border controls are not worth it. I believe it was in 2019 that border controls actually stopped a terrorist entering Denmark. If the terrorist had gained free access to Denmark and had succeeded in his terrorist attack, could potentially 20.30 or perhaps 50 Danes have been killed, then it is not a okay price to pay now one is talking about 2.3 million man-hours to potentially save Danish lives by stopping a terrorist?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409154941-2	What really had been effective, and I am sorry that the Danish People's Party is not so concerned about this, is the international cooperation that is taking place in the European Union and Interpol in order to combat cross-border crime. That is what is essential in the fight against terrorism and other things, because unfortunately we see that complex and international crime is growing. It was not very wise for us to vote against it because there was a vote on the reservation of the law at the time. It would have been wise to do this differently so that we could have been fully involved in Interpol and, together with several countries, more effectively combating international crime, including the risk of terrorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155030	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155030-2	It's gonna be a long outside talk. We're still out of business. If there had been any countries still missing in this, who had been aware that there was a terrorist on their way to Denmark, they would of course have brought it to Denmark's attention, but they did not. It was the Danish border control that caught this terrorist. And when Radicals then put forward a premise that we should not have border controls because it takes too many hours that could have been spent on breaking and entering, I would say: yes, yes, but it also meant that a terrorist was caught. And then I just ask, according to the Radicals, isn't it worth spending all those man lessons catching a terrorist? There's just one difference. This was one terrorist who was captured, but next time it might be 500 who managed to catch.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155113	Denmark consists of over 7,000 km of coastline, and unfortunately I think that if someone really wants to get into Denmark and hurt Denmark, there is a very long coastline to do so. So if you think that having a border boom in a particular place is the only thing that is needed to prevent people from coming to Denmark, then it is a bottom-up approach to it, because our border, when you look at our shores, extends as far as it does. What we just have to realise is that an effective tool to combat this is the new methods of investigation under Interpol, which Denmark has unfortunately decided not to accede to, and that annoys me, because that makes it easier to get to Denmark as an international criminal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155155	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, rapporteur for the Radicals. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's getting a little loud on Friday. The conservative corner has magnetic power on some others. The rapporteur continues here, and that is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Christian Juhl, who is hereby given the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155226	Thank you. I am very sorry not to be able to join the bourgeois Friday bar, but I would like to entertain them a little along the way with our views, and I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for giving us an opportunity to tell us what we think about this subject. Now that we are discussing this proposal, we can divide it into what is the purpose of the proposal and what is the consequences of it. The aim of the proposal does not seem to be more self-determination, but rather a more symbolic intention to show the electorate that a strict policy on foreigners is being pursued. It's just in case somebody forgot. Having a permanent border control at the Danish-German border solely to try to intercept potential asylum seekers is both a waste of police and economics and is also a major nuisance for anyone who otherwise has to cross the border. The Unity List does not support the current temporary border controls, which take the form of samples of current cross-border traffic. It's mostly symbol politics. Although the right wants to keep refugees out of Denmark, the current Danish passport control does not prevent a single person from seeking asylum. A person seeking asylum cannot be refused at the border but is entitled under the refugee convention to asylum treatment in Denmark. Apart from that, it is definitely not an objective that Enhedslisten shares with the proposers. Denmark, like the rest of the EU countries, must take their proportion of the refugees who come here, and we cannot just wipe it off on Greece and Italy, as we have been doing for so many years now. When you come to the consequences of the proposal, the proposal immediately means that we take back the power to decide on border controls so that it comes back to the Folketing instead of being in Brussels. Schengen is not something we are forced to be part of. We have a legal reservation, but it is still an agreement that involves many countries, and therefore Denmark cannot simply make ultimate demands in terms of our participation in the cooperation. Either we have to withdraw or we have to try, in dialogue with the other parties to the agreement, to make a new agreement. That there is a great deal wrong with the shape of the Schengen Agreement is something that we fully agree with in the Enhedslisten, and I think the proposer is also fully aware of that. We have at least discussed it in several contexts outside the Chamber and therefore it would be a very good idea if a thorough review of the agreement were carried out. The way in which the government should view itself in such a reform of Schengen is, of course, something that we must agree on in the context of a new European political agreement, and we would very much like to be involved in that, but requiring the government to ensure a reform of the Schengen Agreement by the end of the year is totally unrealistic. Even sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who has had his long-standing experience in Brussels, should know that this is not working Schengen, the European Union or organisations of that caliber. It is therefore a waste of time that Parliament is discussing this right now and that such a proposal is being made. In addition to the fact that it is always easy to discuss the European Union and Schengen and that sort of thing with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, we must have a realistic opportunity to move forward. We cannot support the proposal. I would like to say that I would recommend Morten Messerschmidt to read the understanding paper where we have just inserted that this should be done: precisely that the Schengen Agreement should be cleaned up and tightened up, and I think that was a good small step when we established the understanding paper, which is, of course, a steering tool for the government. It is actually an opportunity to say: you have to do something about this. I can hear that there is general support for us to have looked at the Schengen Agreement, which is why I have the expectation that something will come of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155643	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155647	It is just to make an admission to Mr. Christian Juhl. I would like to admit that it was perhaps too much to ask for the government to have fulfilled its election promise by the end of this year. Perhaps it should have just been said that it should have been obliged to put forward a proposal to implement its electoral promise. I'll give you that. But if we had put it that way, sir. Christian Juhl could not support it? I remember, then, in every battle that I have fought with the Enhedslisten, not in terms of content, but in terms of strengthening national democracy, in other words towards the EU system. And this is precisely about taking power from the European Union, which one has to ask today if one can have border controls and then move it over to the Danish authorities. I do not quite understand why the Enhedslisten cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155742	Isn't that right, sir? Morten Messerschmidt is well aware that we regularly discuss with the government how far we have come with the understanding paper or the agreement we have to support the government. And, of course, we're discussing these things. And when the government is doing something and the Minister says that yes, we are discussing it too, and we have raised these and those issues, I would say that then there is progress in things. I am taught by history back in 1972 that things take time when it is the European Union that we need to change, unless we can get the Danish people to change things fundamentally. But that is not the question here. That's why I'm going to say yes, but okay, it looks like it's going the right way, and it looks like the government wants to comply with the understanding paper's rules on these things. So let us see when there is a proposal on the table, and I hope that the debate will continue in the right committees so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155839	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155840	I always have the understanding paper right here in my drawer in my red briefcase, which is why I can always look up in it. I'd like to know if Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl could be a little more specific, i.e. where we find the proposal in the understanding paper that the Social Democratic Party presented here on page 16 of their Legal and Realist proposals from 2018. It is not something that immediately lays hold of me, nor did I hear the Minister mention it, so perhaps Mr. Christian Juhl can be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409155914	Yes, I can be very easily. It is quite true that it is sometimes the Socialists, as a government, who are a little forgetful, and then you have to remember what we have agreed. I brought it, too, but it's not in a red briefcase, but in a pink briefcase, because it's not red. Among other things, it says: In the understanding paper: Denmark is part of Schengen cooperation. It is a cooperation that a new government supports and continues to want to be a part of. A revision of the Schengen acquis is needed. This needs to be clarified in the context of a new European political agreement. That is where it says, and that is what we could get in at that time, and that is where it says what we want. We were pleased to clarify that the government did not just want to be in the Schengen Agreement, but that a review is actually needed. So that is where it is, and I also hope that it is in the version that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has, so we can have a common basis for discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160010	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Christian Juhl Then, in the spirit of Hugo Chavez, I will clean for the Conservatives). And I can confirm that it doesn't smell like sulfur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160041	Thank you for that, Mr President, and thank you for that. Christian Juhl, who is always welcome over in the conservative corner. I am a great supporter of the yin and the yang theory, so there must be both a little light in the dark and a little dark in the light. Social democracy will work for the reform of Schengen cooperation. This is fundamental to ensuring the safety of the Danes. The police rejected almost 3,000 people on the Danish-German border in 2016. This is probably one of my favourite proposals from the Legal and realistic policy of foreigners bringing together Denmark, because there is nothing more fundamental and more essential to a nation than self-determination over its own borders. But then what happened? Absolutely nothing. Now we can hear the Minister say that it was not possible to change it on its own. Yet it was voted on. And then it is said that the promise has been fulfilled, because there is an entirely independent path of reform under way by Schengen in Brussels, which the Social Democrats recognise that they themselves have not been involved in the start. If this isn't electoral deception, I don't know what electoral deception is. I just want to say that I find it appalling that a government party can go to the polls on something so fundamental and then simply say: well, it could not be done anyway. Now I shall look forward to seeing where the work on Schengen is actually going. After all, the proposal on which the Social Democratic Party voted was about more self-determination over Danish border controls, so I will look forward to seeing whether the work in which the Social Democratic Party is actually taking part right now leads to more self-determination or to more centralisation in Brussels. This is usually what you can put the clock on when it comes to Brussels, namely that you want more centralisation and not less. But we can then have an answer to that by the Minister in the coming months. I look forward to it. The Conservative People's Party certainly supports this proposal. We think it only natural that the government should actually honour the promises made by the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160245	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160249	Thank you. I would like to hear about Conservatives' attitude to introducing permanent border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160256	We think that as long as the external borders of the European Union are not under control, we need border controls. And what the Social Democrats are saying here about increased self-determination, about when we are going to introduce it, we also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160309	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160311	Hey, I asked about Conservatives' attitude to introducing a permanent border control, not about the government's attitude, but Conservatives' attitude towards it. Is that something you want?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160321	Well, as I say, as long as the external borders of the European Union are not under control, we believe that there should be border controls. If, hypothetically, the EU's external borders were to be managed by a hundred per cent and there were not, let us say, many cases of people being rejected because they are wandering across Europe, then we would not think there was a need for border controls. But as long as it is needed, we are in favour of it being there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160342	Thanks to the Conservative rapporteur there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur and thanks for getting ready for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. It's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160407	A country which does not control its own borders is not a country, says a quote from dear Ronald Reagan, and that is certainly the attitude of the New Citizen. We believe that there should be border controls in Denmark. We do not just believe that it should be temporary. We absolutely believe it should be permanent. Of course, we need to know who's coming across our borders. Then I cannot help thinking that this is now another area where social democracy may be trying to work against what the European Union is doing. Earlier today, we have had another proposal that ignores the European Union. If that is the new approach, I would welcome it. In the past, there was an EU judgment in which we had actually gone for five years without implementing it. And that, of course, makes this term "temporary" have a whole new meaning, because what is temporary border control? I have tried to get it closer with the government today and have said: now that you think there is a risk of terror, has there ever been a time in recent Danish history, and I would like to get an answer to that when we have to deal with this and if there has, when and during what period, when there has been no risk, not a specific threat, because that is something else, but a risk of terrorist attacks against Denmark? For that is what the Social Democrats' paper says about how politics should be. It is therefore interesting to say that the Social Democrats believe that border controls should be maintained until there is no risk of terrorist attacks against Denmark anymore. If that is the case and if it is indeed the policy of social democracy and government, we very much welcome it in New Citizens, because then it would de facto mean that we will have permanent border controls. Because I cannot imagine that there has been a time when there has been no risk of terrorist attacks against Denmark, nor imagine that in the future there will be a time when there is no risk of terrorist attacks against Denmark at all. So, of course, we need boundaries. At the risk of destroying the good Friday atmosphere, I cannot help but look down on our good conservative friends and Left Friends. I hope that when power changes, we can agree that we should have this border control. Then it may well be that they say: Well, what about our asylum system? Yes, then I think it should be supported by New Citizens that we are creating this new asylum system so that you cannot apply for asylum when you get to the border, because that is exactly what the problem is. So if you support New Citizens and say that no, you cannot apply for asylum when you get to the border, then there is no problem with having a border control where you also stop people there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160646	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. We have thus come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409160710	Thank you, President. Thus we reached the next stop on the journey out in the Social Democratic yet realized idea catalogue, and it has been an exciting journey this Friday afternoon, when it has to be said that it is a little unclear what it really is that has been done to realise the very sympathetic desire, as shown in the programme here from 2018 with the well-known party chairman on the front page, Justice and Realism. What were the promises made to the voters? It was promised to work for a reform of Schengen cooperation. So the starting point is that it is the individual countries who can decide for themselves when and how long they want to control their own borders. When will the proposal come? The minister was not quite sure if he had been past the European Committee, but it may be that he has become wiser and now remembers it, and then we can take another round of rounds I have plenty of time. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur was kind enough to refer to the understanding paper, and it is true that there is something about Schengen. It says that Denmark is part of Schengen cooperation. It is a cooperation that a new government supports and continues to want to be a part of. A revision of the Schengen acquis is needed. This needs to be clarified in the context of a new European political agreement. Has there been a new European political agreement? For it must be understood that the system, which is at least an understanding among the red parties behind the paper of understanding, is that it is in the European political agreement that we must, as well as being committed to implementing the reform of Schengen cooperation, which the Social Democracy promised to its electorate in 2018. But there has been no new European political agreement. There are no birds on the roof! Yes, it's not even birds on the roof... the birds have flown from the roof too! There's nothing! This is, to quote the Conservative rapporteur, an electoral deception which is really out of the ordinary. What has been done, then, in order to position itself in Brussels, in Denmark and in the rest of the European Union, to ensure support for the reform that has been promised to your constituents? We know very well how the legislative process is going on in Brussels: the Commission plays a central role, and if that is really the case, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund, that it is only interesting to hear what Mrs Margrethe Vestager thinks when it comes to competition and digital relations, we will at least be spared hearing quite a lot from that point of view, both in the media and in public, because I have not experienced a Commissioner sticking to his own area alone on the contrary. And I would say that when we had the Prime Minister in consultation immediately after she had reappointed Margrethe Vestager, I specifically asked if Mrs Margrethe Vestager had taken an oath on Danish priorities, and the Prime Minister confirmed that. I have it on a video on my computer, so sir... Rasmus Stoklund can see it himself. But I understand from the Minister for Integration that it is not something that has been chosen to take Mrs Margrethe Vestager's oath on, and therefore one must understand that it is not a Danish priority. Social democracy is the party with the largest number of Members in the European Parliament. Is there one of them who has tabled a motion for a resolution fulfilling the Socialist wish? Not that I know of. It is not very difficult, however, that I myself have done so many times in my ten years in the European Parliament and I cannot remember once having been supported by a member of the Social Democratic Party. Has anything been done in the Council of Ministers? The Minister cannot really remember whether he has been given a mandate to do so in the Committee on European Affairs here in the Danish Parliament, and it must therefore be said that it is relatively doubtful how concrete that proposal has actually been put forward in the Council of Ministers, but the doubts must of course benefit the government. I believe that the letters that the Minister is talking about have been sent to the Commission, first of all the letters asking for permission to extend border controls, and these are indeed the letters that the Minister would like to avoid in the future, so that it is Denmark that decides for itself. So not only have we put forward promises and ideas to our Socialist constituents, which are difficult to realize, but we have not even done what we had to do in order to achieve them. To quote Associate Professor Pocket from the missed spring: I wish you would, though. But, unfortunately, this journey out into the social democratic foreign policy breach does not stop here. It is a very long odyssey that we are moving into and we must move on, Madam President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161214	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm sorry about the alarm. There should have been a replacement at the time. 4:00 p.m. Morten Messerschmidt So it wasn't because of me?). No, it was the President's alarm that called because of another meeting, which I have, of course, postponed, at a time when the debate is running smoothly here. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161231	In order to help the President, I shall be very brief. I would like to ask the rapporteur how hypothetically, how does the rapporteur think that the social democracy and government would react if the EU suddenly said no to all those letters that are now being sent down there, where you would like to be allowed to have border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161249	Then I think that we would do exactly as we did this summer, when we were asked to pay an extra bill of 4.5 billion. kr. Then it was said to the Danes: we should be glad that it is not even bigger. And, by the way, the money was sent to Brussels. In other words, this government excels in producing things in a certain way, but in reality do everything that Brussels says, obediently and virtuously, as all governments have unfortunately done since 1973.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161315	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161315-2	I fully agree, and the threat may even be greater, because we are facing a terrorist threat and a terrorist risk. As a matter of principle, if the government chooses to follow the European Union, it can mean that Denmark becomes more insecure and more insecure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161331	Well, there is no doubt that the whole line and the whole impact that the European Union has had on Denmark, at least for the last 20 years, have led to an increase in the threat of terrorism and an influx of criminals, from Eastern European petty rapes at work to really serious threats to the safety of Danes. That is also why I and my party want Denmark to leave the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161352	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161357	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt for today's feature. I am glad that we agreed in the past that in six months we cannot do much in an EU system as it is working today. However, it was good that we agreed on this. I'd like to hear something. For 10 years, sir. Morten Messerschmidt was in the EU, he was absent from the Folketing, and for good reason he could not make proposals. But when did Mr. Morten Messerschmidt tried to influence the government he kept his ass up, I was just about to say, but that's something else in this Chamber that kept alive with various left-wing prime ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161444	Well, we have been doing this since 2001, when there have been bourgeois governments. What is the difference is that the Left Governments we have supported have never pretended to want anything else to their electorate. And therefore it was an open fight; for the Left is a very pro-EU party, while the Danish People's Party is a very anti-EU party. What is new here is that social democracy is a very pro-EU party, but would rather not tell their electorate. And that is the situation we are working on. Now, if I may just clarify to Mr. Simpson... Christian Juhl, I would say that we are not talking about six months. Well, sir. Christian Juhl was kind enough to remind me that this promise was already inscribed in the understanding paper, which I can see is dated 25 June 2019. If this proposal is adopted, we are talking about an expiry date called 1 January 2022. So for now, it is two and a half years when the government has neglected the possibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161538	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161540	After all, everything is relative, including the position of the Left on both the European Union and other things. But I would just like to say that even a year and a half is a long time in the European Union, and if we want to have results and not just mark our policy I can fall into that too sometimes, I would like to admit that we should try to make a plan for how to change it, instead of just saying that it was a miserable government. After all, we have the government we have, and we must try to work with it as long as it is government and if we have another government, we must try to work with it. What I mean is that it is always easiest to be in opposition; I remember that. And that's why a little reflection and reflection may be good and then say: let's try to make a plan instead of just scolding them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161630	I remember being in opposition all my life, and it has not always been quite easy. But having said that, I would like to say that I would very much like to extend my hand to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl and change this resolution so that we do not oblige the government to honour its election promise by the end of this year, but simply require the government to present the concrete proposal before the end of this year. And if that's what it takes to get the Enhedslisten to vote in favour, then I don't think that makes any of my blue friends vote against it and then we have a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161659	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur since no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210409161714	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 13 April 2021 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I would also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
