ParlaMint-DK_20210223183322	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223183324	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223183345	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223183402	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 32 of a minority (RV), joined by a minority (S, SF and EL), which together constitutes a majority? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223183420	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill as a whole? Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223183440	Thank you for that, President. Then we'll be standing with Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen's blessing at last by the cord of adoption of this new epidemic law. It has rightly been very controversial, because both this and previous epidemic laws are filled with possible interventions and restrictions which may be necessary in an epidemic crisis such as the one we hope to be on our way out of. So, of course, an epidemic law needs to be discussed in depth, and the discussion must finally continue. In the Left, we are fully behind the adoption of this new epidemic law. I think it is important to establish that this is an epidemic law. This isn't a corona law. It is a law that must also be able to take account of something that may in fact develop into a lot, much worse than what we see now, believe it or not. There are biological weapons and all sorts of other things we can't imagine right now. It is not because I cannot hear those who believe that we should not have an epidemic law in Denmark at all, but that the Left is not there. We think it is part of being a responsible party to ensure that Denmark has a modern epidemic law to deal with epidemics. Nor is it because I cannot hear those who believe that we should simply postpone the adoption of this bill, but the Left is not there either. The alternative to that is either that we didn't want any epidemic law in Denmark at all, since the emergency law of March, which we are running after now, expires here per year. 1 March, or that at an earlier stage we could have decided just to extend the existing epidemic law. And I would just like to say that this is no alternative to the Left at all. Why not? In the Left, we have for a very long time had the self-contained ambition to have the government tampered with and re-establish the rule of the people in Denmark in dealing with epidemic crises in general and this crisis in particular. That is why we also decided, together with a majority in the Parliamentary Committee on Health, to instruct the government as long ago as June last year to present a proposal for a new epidemic law based on transparency, legal certainty and popular rule. The government then decided in September to present a proposal for a new epidemic law, which was quite large on what the majority of the Danish Parliament had adopted. The government presented a proposal for a new epidemic law, which went against the intentions of the majority of the people. At the same time, in the Left, we ourselves presented our own proposal for the framework of a new epidemic law, in which the backbone was precisely more legal certainty, transparency and the rule of the people. We wanted, among other things, to see what we could do. setting up a new epidemic committee in the Folketing, where the government in office must always find support for interventions and restrictions, in other words, as opposed to now, when the government is just going away without really asking anyone. We also wanted an epidemic commission to be set up to make professional recommendations to the government in connection with an epidemic situation. It is also in contrast to now that no one really can find the head and tail of what is politics and what is health professionalism. Following further pressure on the government from both sides of the Folketing, a political agreement was reached shortly before Christmas, in which it was precisely the backbone, that is, more parliamentary control and more transparency with the professional attitudes than has been the case in this crisis. Furthermore, it has happened over the last few months that even more paragraphs have been encased with parliamentary control, the attitude of the Epidemia Commission and automatic judicial control. Take e.g. the proposal on the Board of Appeal for restrictions on visits. It is a proposal which guarantees the right of elderly people in nursing homes and residents of care institutions to have effective and impartial redress if and if restrictions are imposed on their own homes, which are therefore not agreed with, and thus basically even more control of the government in office at all times. Now it is not because I cannot hear those who believe that what is now here is still not good enough, but some of those who believe that this is not good enough have largely pointed to zero alternatives. They have set up virtually zero alternatives to what a majority of parties have now agreed. In the Left, we pointed out before summer break 2020 that Denmark needs a new epidemic law because the government should have less power. After the summer recess, we in the Left launched a whole exercise which had as its focal point that the government should have less power. In the negotiations on a new epidemic law up to Christmas, we had as a negotiating proposal that the government should have less power. In connection with the legislative process here after Christmas, the Left has had the starting point and worked for the government to have some less power. Has the Left and, for that matter, the other parties who are behind this agreement on a new epidemic law succeeded in reducing both this and future governments' ability to act completely independently during an epidemic crisis? Yes, it has succeeded in doing so. And yes, there could easily have been better time for legal proceedings if the government had done what the Folketing asked the government to do back in June. And the delay in the process which the government has been behind has also been taken away by the Left and a number of other parties on the blue side by proposing that a revision clause be inserted directly into the law so that this new law is formally re-examined in this Chamber in the autumn so that any experience with the law can be gathered. That was the majority for yesterday. There isn't today. This does not change the fact that the Left wants to take responsibility for Denmark having a new epidemic law, which is far, far better than the one we come from, because there is much, much more popular government, more legal certainty and more transparency in this law than in the existing epidemic law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184212	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184217	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Martin Geertsen for an otherwise excellent speech. In many areas we have also been running pairs of races in relation to this in the treatment of the epidemic law, and I would like to sign for that speech. I could not help but take the floor, Mr President. Martin Geertsen could not help but sack a stick in relation to the revision clause that we discussed yesterday. And I'd just like to ask, sir. Martin Geertsen to confirm that it has been written into the report to the law that this very assessment of the law will have to be made, including in October. And if there should be a majority in the Folketing who wants a revision based either on the review of the law by the government or if other matters should speak for it, then of course we can just do a revision of the law in October.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184309	Perhaps the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Peder Hvelplund noticed how around I formulated myself in relation to it. Listen, yesterday we had a sensible talk about these things. Both, sir. Peder Hvelplund's party and others supported that amendment. I have just noted this in my rapporteur's speech here before. In fact, I could have been even more snide in my way of handling it than I have actually been, I think, if you are to be completely honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184344	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184346	I have no doubt about that at all. I think I can confirm that, sir. Martin Geertsen could do it. The only question is how reasonable that would have been. That's why I'd just like to ask Mr. Martin Geertsen to recognise that the excellent initiative taken yesterday by the Left has actually succeeded in ensuring that we get that review of the law. Whether this leads to a review, i.e. whether it can bear it, we will have to see then. But at least there's the possibility. And if a majority so wishes, that will also happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184416	Well, of course we in the Left are very happy to be able to help, support, promise and bear. Nevertheless, we think that it would have been a good idea if we had had a more binding commitment in the form of the amendment that we tabled, namely a binding commitment whereby the Minister for Health was obliged to come down here with the law we are now adopting and re-examine it. I can be a little nervous that the remark in the report may be a bit too procedural. Anyway, it's better than nothing, of course. I would have preferred the amendment that we have tabled and which we have also voted in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184450	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184454	I'd like to thank you for your speech. I think there were some important things in it that need to be highlighted. A civilised country must have an epidemic law, otherwise civilisation will not survive, it will be threatening to civilisation not to be able to control epidemics and that is why, of course, we are also very happy to have an epidemic law now, which is precisely not a corona law, but an epidemic law, which will hopefully reach a long way in the future. But I'm also very interested in history. In 1979 we were given a very strict epidemic law, which had a section 6 and a section 8 with forced vaccination and forced treatment etc. It was under the SV government, and the then Minister for the Interior was Knud Enggaard. Most recently, that law was revised in 2007, while my sideman down here in the rear row was Minister of Health. Therefore, I am a little interested to hear how the Left has got such a very, very different attitude to tough epidemic laws in relatively few years after having accepted the 1979 Act from 1979 to 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184613	Well, I think that the sideman's story understanding is at least as good as my story and probably better than mine, right? Henrik Dahl also just to ask the sideman. But I think it is important here to distinguish what to say if I am going to say in Danish what the provisions of the legislation can do from what is involved in how the individual paragraphs of the legislation are actually activated. Listen, this isn't a bouquet of freedom such an epidemic law, is it? Well, it's just not. After all, it is full of all kinds of and impossible restrictions that can be called down on the population. What I think has been the task for me has been to try to get it as well as possible; that is to say, by parliamentary control, by recommendations from the Epidemic Commission, by automatic judicial review, by sunset clause and by what I know. This seems to me to have been the task so that the current government cannot simply apply these paragraphs without really asking anyone. That seems to me to have been the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184728	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184731	I think that the rapporteur is a little out of the question, and I would also like to consider talking to my fellow man at a later stage on this exciting subject. But there has to be something in the Left's thinking about epidemics, from making this very tough law without very much democratic control. It is in the Health Authority and in some epidemic commissions and looking forward to today. Is it simply because you never expected to use the 1979 law and then you just voted for it, or what is the real reason why you suddenly found out that it was a terrible law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184810	I think I will have to repeat my reply from before to Mr. Henrik Dahl. We have not in any way deviated from the message that Denmark needs an epidemic law, where there can also be some crass tools that can be used. But what I have learned myself during this epidemic has been that when it really goes out there and it has to be dealt with epidemically, there is good reason why there are also some people who like to hold hands with the government in office at all times. That is what I have used my strength to try to hedge in, namely that the government in office cannot do that at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184850	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184854	Thank you. Since the rapporteur is kind enough to mention me in his speech, I think I would just sign up for the cooperation that I have had with the rapporteur in the past year. Because even though we actually end up on each of our sides, we've been working closely together on these things. Sometimes we have been in agreement, sometimes we have not, but we have worked well together on it. I would just like to make it clear where the difference lies, because now it was somewhat insinuated that New Citizens do not think there should be an epidemic law, as we think there should be. Where we got off was when we thought that this negotiating situation was being pursued just before Christmas, when an agreement was reached that we did not think was good enough. From that point on, the negotiations have virtually stalled. So I would like to ask whether the rapporteur also believes that the agreement reached before Christmas was not sufficient, since we can now see that there have been 80 amendments since.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223184956	I was actually hoping that I had made my speech so subtle that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen didn't find it to be an attack on Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, but apparently it wasn't subtle enough, so I'll have to do better some other time. I fully agree that this process has been completely on the moon, but I simply do not want to take responsibility for that. Listen: Together with other good forces in the Danish Parliament's Health Committee before the summer holidays, we agreed that the government should present a new proposal for an epidemic law, a new epidemic law based on popular government, transparency, legal certainty, and the government comes up with something that is in exactly the opposite direction. It's like one consideration. And then it's gone into battle trying to slow down that process. I simply do not want to take responsibility for this. The government must take responsibility for this because the government did not do what the Folketing asked the government to do. That's the way it is. My ambition has then been to say that, on the other hand, as soon as possible, we must get rid of the epidemic law that we now have, because, in my opinion, it is not sufficient in terms of transparency, is not sufficient in terms of legal certainty and is not sufficient in terms of popular rule. So there's really been a process delay from over here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185113	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185114	Thank you. Well, I agree. I remember the summer, because it was, in fact, a new bourgeois proposal which, like it, accelerated everything, which received the support of the Left and the Radical Left, and which actually got the government out of the sand, and where we then got started with this process; so I remember that clearly. Now I like democracy and popular rule, which we can hear working outside today. Now I saw in the media earlier today that the Danish People's Party is making a proposal on §42 and that there is a referendum on this matter. What is the Left's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185146	In other words, we have put forward a proposal for a review clause in the new epidemic law, which in general was that we should have the law reviewed again here in October, and we did so because we thought it was the right tool, and then we do not think that all sorts of other tools are the right tools. I have not had it in the Confederal Group of the European United Left, but my best bet is that the answer is that we will probably not be able to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185212	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more short remarks, of course, there is one who has plunged into very last minute. But it's okay. Sir. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185224	Thank you for your kindness, President. It is just to make it clear that the proposal we intend to make is not an activation of Article 42 of the Constitution, because that would then mean that the epidemic law would be postponed and that we then had no epidemic law in Denmark. It doesn't work by its very nature. Better a bad than no one, so to speak, in case the problem arises. No, what we are proposing is simply to hold a general indicative referendum. We do not know whether the drum-enthusiastic types outside here are representative of the population or not, and that is why it was very appropriate to hold such a referendum on 15 September so that the whole debate could run over the summer and that we could start the parliamentary year in October to see whether something had to be changed or whether everything had been completely taken down from Mount Sinai on stone boards. Can this perhaps appease the Left a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185328	I said in my rapporteur's speech before that the Left wants there to be an epidemic law in this country. I mean, I think everything else would be irresponsible, because the current government must have some tools to deal with an epidemic with at all times. Then, in this situation over the past year, we have had the problem that the government has not really wanted to play with anyone but itself. I think that has been a huge problem. I think we should deal with that by introducing a new epidemic law. But I think that is a parliamentary task. I think it is a task for the parties of the Folketing. And there may well be things that can be changed in the epidemic law that we have now, and that is also why we are proposing a review clause. But I think it is a political task to take political responsibility for Denmark having an epidemic law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185421	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185423	I do not disagree with that at all, but it cannot have escaped anyone's attention that this bill has called for a very great deal of concern at the Danish Health Service, at a wide range of experts and at many citizens. That is why it would perhaps be very obvious for us to reach out and say: yes, we would like to have this debate in a broad sense. After all, this is a completely traditional debate, which I would actually think a Leftman should welcome, because it is the discussion between security and freedom, on each side, and where the dividing line should go exactly. Why not involve the people in that debate and then let us take it at the bottom over the summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185504	I actually addressed it in my speech before. So, I think it is extremely important to have a very fundamental debate about an epidemic law, and it is particularly important because we have now experienced an epidemic law on our own body; it has all Danes. So I welcome that debate, and it is here, regardless of whether Mr. Morten Messerschmidt or I want it. But I think it is fair that it is Parliament's parties that take responsibility for the fact that we have an epidemic law in this country. And then there may be things that need to be changed, and the Left, together with other good forces, has put forward a proposal on how to deal with it, namely that you look at the law again in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185542	Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments and if the rapporteur would just kindly clean up the platform as the next rapporteur. Yes, there are many activities and a lot of noise from the Palace Square, and Members must signal to me if it is difficult to hear each other, but take into account that there is that noise, so you may have to speak a little more loudly and clearly. I believe that we can all hear what is happening in this Chamber. The next rapporteur who has asked to speak is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blix. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223185620	In the Danish People's Party we also want an epidemic law. It sounds like we don't want an epidemic law, but we have to vote according to our convictions, and we have to vote for something that we think can make a difference and that doesn't break with a lot of rights. Today has been a classic example of how not to get through with a bill. Well, it's been the weirdest way to run a bill. Even when we were going to have the first reading, we received the consultation answers shortly before, and there were an incredible number of consultation responses. And after the first reading there were no less than 58 amendments that we received shortly before we had to take a position on them for the second reading. After the second reading, 23 more amendments were tabled, plus a great many stories, in which many of the parties that actually signed up to the agreement were extremely sceptical about some of the things that journalists found. And so here, just before the third reading, there were suddenly extra amendments: we are up to what I can count for 84 amendments in a draft law and there has been too little time to understand what it was about and too little time to ask about them. We have tabled four amendments ourselves. Many of the other proposals that lie are of course from the Minister and from other parties, but we have done it on the part of the Danish People's Party that those who we believe improve the law have voted in favour. So when the rapporteur of the Left says that those who do not want an epidemic law or cannot vote for this epidemic law have nothing else to offer, it is not true, because, as I said, we have tabled four amendments and if we could get them through, we could vote in favour. Because we do not think there is enough parliamentary control. The rapporteur of the Left can see this for himself when he proposes an amendment on a revision: first there was a majority, that was there yesterday, and suddenly today, at the last minute, there were parties that joined the Minister and then the amendment went away. That is exactly what will happen in an epidemic committee, where the government in office with a small minority can at any time impose legislation. At the same time, we do not want it to be outside parliamentary control that people can be subjected to forced treatment and hospitalization. So these are the things that make the Danish People's Party unable to support this epidemic law. We would have liked there to have been a review, which is why we were glad that yesterday we could see that there was a majority in favour of the Left wish. But it didn't work out that way, and we can only say that you should have been smarter before Christmas and said something, because if this epidemic law went on for one or two more months, it probably didn't make much difference. I don't think anyone's gonna see the big difference in one month from what's happening in the country. Because this law isn't just a corona law. It is a law that must be applied forward-looking. And we do not know which minister of health will be sitting in ten years, 20 years, nor what majority will be able to vote through this. So that is why we cannot vote in favour, and I would just like to say that it has been a frustrating day when a great many things have appeared and that we have had to interrupt negotiations and go to emergency meetings etc. And that certainly gives us reason to vote against this epidemic law. It's supposed to be the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223190021	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked to speak, is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223190058	Thank you. Before the summer of last year, I helped to bring together a majority in order to boost work on a new future-proof epidemic law. One goal for me was to ensure time for a thorough process with a very comprehensive law. I'm sure we can discuss whether or not we succeeded. There has certainly been a lot of bumps on the road, so we must note that today too. But here we are at last. The law we are about to adopt here must be able to live with is enforced, not only by the current Minister for Health, but by whomever it may be that sits on that post during a future epidemic. And it's not a corona law. It must also be able to deal with outbreaks of other still unknown diseases that may be more contagious or more lethal than the disease that we are all struggling with at the moment. Because there is no discussion that we should have an epidemic law. We're in the middle of an epidemic and facing a third wave of corona. It would be headless not having the tools to handle it. The alternative to not adopting an epidemic law today is, of course, that we are on Monday without an epidemic law and thus do not have the tools and tools we need to deal with the epidemic we are in the middle of. Like everyone else, I have heard the concerns that have been raised about the law and that we can hear quite clearly right now. Luckily, and it's important to stress that • is far, by far most of them based on misconceptions about the content of the law. I am also looking forward to seeing that we are out of the epidemic and no longer need to have this law applied. It's gonna be great, and fortunately that time is coming, but it's not yet, unfortunately. However, the law we are adopting is a significant improvement on the current epidemic law, and it is important to emphasise, not least with regard to the citizens present in the Palace Square. We have ensured legal certainty far, far better for the citizens of the country: there is automatic judicial review by coercive measures, there is much more transparency about professional attitudes and there is parliamentary control and therefore also parliamentary responsibility. From next week, management and hence also responsibility for handling will lie not only with the government but in the Folketing. We take care to be involved and thus also to take responsibility, and that is a good thing. I look forward to that process. Like several of my fellow Members, I have tabled a large number of questions and amendments to the law. Many of them have been voted through with very broad support, including from the government, because there has been a broad interest in ensuring a good law, a future-proof law that can actually be used, also for still unknown diseases. There are also things we haven't got through with. We would like the much-mentioned section 28 to be taken out of the law, not because we do not see the intention of asking people to be tested if they have been exposed to infection, but because we do not see how to enforce it in practice. For us there is no reason to have a paragraph that we cannot actually use for anything and which is merely symbolic policy. All in all, however, I can stand by the law that we will be voting on in a moment. Is it perfect? Surely not, and that is why it is also important that we have adopted a revision clause that we should pick up on the experience we have gained. Fortunately, we are in an epidemic with a disease we know. We're in a completely different place than we were a year ago. It's a good time to find out if it actually works. If the committee works, does the commission work, do the individual paragraphs work as we expect? If they do not, it will have to be followed up, and then we will have to carry out a review in the autumn, if necessary. It is not an end in itself that we will have this debate again in the autumn, but if necessary, I am happy to stand here and I am sure that there will be a majority of the parties to ensure that we will be here again if there is a need to revise the law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223190505	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next person who has asked for the floor here at the third reading is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223190529	Thank you for that, President. Never again on March 11th! That was the task we were faced with when we were about to make a new epidemic law. We should never again be faced with a huge crisis. When we took up our epidemic law and dusted it off and looked at it, we could see that it was out of date and that it did not meet the challenges we were facing, and that is why we were faced with the situation that we had to adopt a new emergency law in a very short time, which gave very far-reaching powers to a minister and which contained very little parliamentary control. We will never have to face that situation again. There are also many other lessons to be learned from this, for example. in terms of how we ensure that we have sufficient public production of vaccines, of protective equipment, and that we have a sufficiently high standard of hygiene to avoid the spread of infection in our institutions for the elderly, on our social services, on our day-care institutions and on our day-to-day services. But the basic thing in relation to the epidemic law is that we should never again be in that situation. That was the task we were faced with. Now we've had an emergency law. At the same time, we have been working to ensure a balance between public health considerations and fundamental freedoms, citizens' freedoms, because this is the balance that must be found in an epidemic law that must be able to deal with and bring us through a crisis, because we also know from experience that crises always hit socially wrong. That is why we must ensure that there is the real balance between protecting our weak and vulnerable citizens, but also that we can also take account of our public health. That is also what has been the point of reference for us through the examination of L 134, the draft epidemic law that we are dealing with here today. I would also like, in spite of all the difficulties and sometimes the unsightly course that has taken place, to acknowledge the cooperation that has taken place. Because although there have been disagreements, I think we have actually managed to get through this process fairly, even if in many ways one might have wanted the final course here to have looked different than it did. However, when I look at the overall result, I think that we have actually achieved a reasonable result here. When I think of it, it is because we have helped to ensure the balance between the health assessment and the political decision, so that it becomes clear when we speak health professionalism, when we speak capacity and when we speak politically, because there has to be a clear recommendation for health care. But it must also be possible to go further politically, that is to say to have a precautionary principle and to say that here we want to go further than what the health authorities recommend, just as, of course, we must also be able to say that we are neglecting the advice we receive from the health authorities because we do not think they are valid. It must, of course, be a political decision, because some must be accountable for that decision. I also think that with this draft we have secured parliamentary control. Where we have seen with the emergency law that a great deal of power was placed with the government, with the Minister, in other words that there had been a distortion of the relationship between the legislature and the executive, I think that this proposal has actually ensured that this does not happen to a reasonable extent. We have also been assured that there is a four-week limitation on the powers given, that is to say that we will not see an authorisation being given which can only continue as long as the epidemic law is activated, but that it must be constantly reviewed. We have been assured that there will be automatic judicial review of all coercive measures, and not just those relating to detention, but that every time citizens are subjected to coercive measures there will be automatic judicial review of them. I think that is quite essential results we have achieved in relation to this bill. However, it is clear that there are challenges to the adoption of such a law that goes so far in its content and that must be able to be activated when we face a crisis. That is also why it has been absolutely crucial for us to ensure that every five years we have the law taken up and reviewed, in terms of whether it is up to date with the social structure we have and the disease picture we face. It is vital that we do not again have an epidemic law which turns out to be out of date with regard to the situation we are in. I am also very pleased that we have now ensured that we will have a review of the law in October to see if a review needs to be made. Because there is no doubt that the process which has taken place here in particular, at the end of which a host of amendments have been tabled, has been quite under pressure and has been an accelerated process. But there is a need for us to look at it because there may be something we have overlooked; there may be inappropriateness to what we have adopted. And, of course, we must ensure that we commit ourselves to having it reviewed and looked through and have the opportunity to carry out a review if necessary. I would also like to say that if we do not vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Left, it is because we are not going to say that we need to carry out a review now, because that would mean that we should start work now. However, there should be no doubt that if it turns out that there are shortcomings either in the way in which the epidemic law is implemented or in relation to information we get through the press, then we will also ensure that we have that review by October. And, of course, we will keep an eye on how the epidemic law is being implemented. For it is absolutely essential that we ensure that there is a constant balance between citizens' freedoms and public health considerations. I think that with L 134 we have achieved a reasonable result, and that is why it is also with serenity that we can vote in favour of the legislative proposal here in a moment when we are going to vote on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191133	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191138	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. In fact, I have always had respect for Enhedslisten despite our differences, because I have always seen Enhedslisten as a party that also fights for legal certainty. And I could also hear that this was something that the rapporteur here emphasised when he said automatic judicial review and struck out with his arms. That is also true for some, but there is not automatic justice for everyone if you look at the epidemic law. This is especially true of our elders. There is, of course, no automatic judicial review if restrictions are imposed on, for example: a nursing home. At any rate, that is one of the priorities of the Left, in other words, that there should also be the possibility of our elderly having a genuinely independent right of appeal if restrictions are imposed on their own homes in a nursing home. This is among other things. That is why we have tabled an amendment together with other parties here in the Parliamentary Chamber about an appeal board for visitor restrictions, which precisely ensures that there is no judicial remedy ~ an impartial appeal procedure. Why could the Enhedslisten not vote for it, so that our elders also have security?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191258	But I also have a great deal of sympathy for the amendment tabled by the Left. When I have been concerned about this, it is because we have already ensured that the decisions of the Board of Patient Safety must be reviewed every three, every 10, every 20 and every 30 days. There will be an assessment of it. And it's a balance. In other words, precisely the question of visiting restrictions in nursing homes is a very good example of how we need to strike a balance with the legal certainty of the citizen and with regard to public health. Because when restrictions are imposed, for some it will be an intervention, but for others it will also be an intervention if there is insufficient control of how the infection can enter a nursing home. Of course, it is the citizen's own home, but the citizen will be sharing staff with the neighbour, and there may be a neighbour who is concerned that there is sufficient control that there will be no infection at the care centre. That is why I think that balance is actually assured, precisely by the fact that the Patient Safety Agency must re-evaluate its decisions at those intervals, and that it is still surrounded by the precise question of both proportionality and minimum action.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191404	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191406	Thank you. It is true that the board must re-evaluate with a daily interval, but that does not give the citizen the legal certainty that there is in that one can complain to an independent body. And if I am to be quite honest, I simply cannot think of anywhere in this country where, if you impose strict restrictions on citizens or interfere with the personal freedom that you do when you make restrictions on your own home in a nursing home, you are interfering with personal freedom, so that it does not also result from a right of appeal. I simply cannot hear the good argument as to why older people should be much worse off than all other citizens in this society, and I think the Enhedslisten has yet to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191456	There is also a right of appeal, because if you think that the restrictions that are being implemented are being implemented in too far-reaching a way, then there is an opportunity to complain to the Ankestyrelsen about that decision. In addition, however, the dilemma lies precisely with the fact that you have to protect the individual citizen who would like to have visits, but also the individual elderly, who can live next door as a neighbour and who may be in an extremely vulnerable situation and who may have that concern. Therefore, it will ultimately be up to a health professional assessment where the cut must be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191527	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191530	Thank you. What makes me speak is that the rapporteur said that in all forms of coercion there will be automatic judicial review. Now it may be my memory that plays me a trick, but I do not think that is the case in relation to § 28. So there I do not think there is automatic judicial review, and that is also coercive, because there is forced isolation in it. So can the rapporteur not confirm that it is correct that there is no judicial review in Article 28?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191601	Well, there's a court case at Section 28, because if you get a warrant about e.g. Having to let you test because you have participated in a major event, it still leaves the authority to prove it. It is they who bear the burden of proof. So you'll always have the opportunity to say: I don't think that's right. And then it is the authority that has to prove that you have just been present and that you do not want to be tested. Then there is the possibility of judicial review. It is not an automatic judicial procedure, but it would also be quite far-reaching if we were to say: the moment you say that everyone who has attended a concert must have an automatic judicial procedure. Of course, it should be the case that the individual citizen has the opportunity to have that legal certainty in relation to the fact that it is the authority that has the burden of proof. You can't just come and impose a sanction on someone without it being legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191648	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191649	No, and that is precisely the problem with section 28, i.e. that it is virtually impossible to administer once it has been adopted. Because if you shut down a football game and everyone says you have to go home in forced isolation, do these people have the right to have their case tested automatically? Fines may be imposed on them if they do not go home and forcibly isolate themselves. Where is their legal certainty? Because they have to raise a case and pay for a case themselves. And that is why we and the Radical Left have raised the problem around Paragraph 28, because there is no automatic judicial review. On the other hand, you get a fine if you don't comply with those rules just because you've been at the same event.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191726	Now it's not like it's just something you do. In other words, it is still covered by both the principle of minimum intervention and the principle of proportionality. But it is clear that if there is an event, you may risk a fine if you have participated in it and refuse to be tested. Then you can get a fine, but if you do not think it is right that it is in accordance with the law that you have been fined, then you can refuse to pay it and thus take it to court. It is no different than it is in all sorts of other cases. It will of course be the case that it is the authority which bears the burden of proof and which must be able to prove that it is in accordance with the truth when they say that you have been to an arrangement and that you have refused to be tested. I would like to admit that it may be difficult to enforce it, but the question is whether it is not possible to say that it is sometimes necessary to give a clear injunction to ensure that the spread of infection is restricted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191814	Then there are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor here at the third reading, is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223191838	Thank you for that, President. After all, we must have an epidemic law, and the emergency law, which all the parties of the Danish Parliament adopted a year ago, expires on Monday, and we are some of us who are really, really happy that I personally have been very pleased. After all, we will have legislation quite different from that which we have had to live with over the past year. We will have legislation with a whole series of improvements, so that I can actually wonder why there is such a racket out there. Because I think we have come a very long way in getting in the right direction. After all, we are getting power from the government, and it will simply be the majority of the Folketing that will decide. Because we have to recognise that in the past year the government has been extremely greasy when it comes to involving the Folketing. To put it more directly, the government has not managed the powers that the Folketing gave the government, well enough. Sometimes Parliament has been so badly involved that there has been what I would call a real democratic deficit. When restrictions and injunctions have been introduced, the Folketing has only been informed very shortly before some of the famous press meetings and without any involvement, negotiation or discussion, but has only been informed of what should be going on. The worst example was, of course, when the Prime Minister and government ministers thought that a whole mink industry could be killed without any legal basis, that is to say totally illegal. Fortunately, this is being dealt with in the judge-led commission, which is trying to find out how things could go so wrong. But now there is a limit to willfulness. Now we get democracy back in the decision-making process; yes, as I said, we get power back to the Folketing. We will have an Epidemic Commission which will have to present the decision-making bases and calculations quite openly, so that we politicians can base ourselves on the openness and transparency of the decision-making process, as we know in the other ordinary legislative work. Then everyone can see what is medical advice and what is politics. With the new law, we also have legal certainty for the public, since all orders directed against individuals must be automatically brought before the courts, as well as by the authorities. It certainly gives me confidence that no one will be subjected to unnecessary measures. It has been a long process and we have also come a long way, but the fear that there is something that we have missed does so that we have demanded that the law be visited again in the autumn. And I was not able to read this morning in the Ekstrabladet, because what was a majority in favour has become somewhat watered down, so that we do not have to revise in the same way as there was a majority in favour of yesterday, but make an assessment. And I will then take the parties at the floor who have indicated here today that if it is needed, we will simply take and review it. And I look forward to that if it is needed, but let us hope that it does not. I would like to make three points before we vote in favour of the law. After all, as I said, legal certainty will be significantly strengthened in the future. A thorough work is also being undertaken to establish rules and principles for compensation and compensation. And then, as I said, we get power back to the Folketing. And that's why we Conservatives vote for the law, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223192254	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223192259	Thank you. I would just like to sign for the speech, and I would just like to say that the rapporteur can be quite sure that if we are of the opinion that there is a need for a revision of the law, we will also demand that we have it by October, because that is absolutely crucial. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is not of the opinion that the fact that we are just assessing whether there is a need for a review could in fact be very wise, because the rapporteur himself says that it is not certain that it is necessary. And that is why it is perhaps very reasonable that we should first ascertain whether a revision is necessary before we decide whether that is what we should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223192329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223192329-2	Yes, I can only give Mr. Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Peder Hvelplund is right, that is, there is no need to revise anything if there is no need for it. But the fact that it had been recorded would have been an advantage to me as a starting point. In the law we have lived with over the past year, there was a sunset clause, and it expires, and I think everything else is just an advantage, because it has made us simply need to create new legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223192404	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223192405	But that is precisely what it means: that we have now committed the government to having this discussion in October about whether there will be a need for a review. As I said, I can guarantee that we will be ready to do so if the need arises. Then I would just like to say that the question of the sunset clause and, incidentally, a review of the emergency law after three months was also one of the things that Enhedslisten brought forward in the negotiations when we discussed the emergency law. There was then no majority for it then, but I am really glad that there has now been more focus on it, that we need a review and that every five years we have to look at the law again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223192440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223192441	Yes, and with those words I would say that I am confident that if there is a need, we can gather together to say that we will bite to the bone too, to put it plainly, because then we will also make an adjustment to what we may think was inappropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223192457	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Could the rapporteur please prepare for the next rapporteur, who is on the verge of leaping and who is the rapporteur for the new citizens, Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223192520	Now there is a big surprise, because New Citizens do not vote for the epidemic law. We don't. But I'd like to start by praising the noisy people on the street, because it's been many months they've been standing out there. Although it may have been a burden for us to listen to it in here, it is also a sign that democracy is alive and that it is loud. I also think it deserves recognition that the people who are at least standing out there have done so peacefully without riots and without problems, and I think that this should actually be recognised, at least from me. New citizens believe there should be an epidemic law. We can face situations that can be very, very bad, so of course we need an epidemic law. When we cannot vote for it here, it is because we do not believe that the proportions in it are right, because it gives too wide powers in relation to what we are in now, namely corona. Therefore, other situations may well arise where it is okay that there are wide powers in an epidemic law. But we are in a situation where, in March, we gave the government a great deal of power, and in my optics they have not managed that well enough. They have sidetracked the Folketing, and I also believe that it is important for the resistance of the people to what we are adopting now. Because I believe that if the government had had a more inclusive approach to dealing with this, not only with the rest of the Folketing, but also with regard to the population, there might have been more support for what we are unfortunately adopting now. We could not be involved because it contains too many areas of coercion, too many areas of collectivist punishment of conjecture, where healthy people can be sent home in forced isolation on the assumption that they are ill. Could you imagine a disease where it will be necessary? Yeah, maybe, if it's very, very bad. But it must never be a tool that can be used for example. to deal with a corona virus that we are facing, and that is what is happening. At the same time, in my optics, a jelly jar has been set up, and you have to look at that afterwards, but you have known for a whole year that a new epidemic law was to be created, but you have not thought about the business community in it. I think that is disrespectful. So in a number of areas we cannot be part of New Citizens. We also think it goes too far with the demands that you can make on companies and people to inform about other people's behaviour and where they have gone. That also applies to the corona. We must be allowed to go to a restaurant and have our anonymity without a company being forced to register who we are and who we have been with. That's going too far. There are also improvements in relation to the temporary law, and I think that is also appropriate to recognise. A committee has been set up. We would have liked more decisions to have been made in the Folketing, but the committee is an improvement, and I think that should also be recognised. Forced vaccines have been taken out compared to the first that the government brought in, and that is also positive. So, even if we end up being unable to vote in favour, we would like to acknowledge that in relation to the temporary law there should not be so much improvement. But, as I said, we are not going to vote in favour of this. The proportions are not there, and basically the problem lies in the fact that the committee is also political and, after all, when we have to press the button, I do not share the concept of proportionality with the left. I just do not, and that is why the way it is going to be is wrong, namely in a committee, because it will be a political assessment of what is proportional, which will be the case, and I think that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193019	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193024	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech, which gave rise to a number of questions. I don't think I can reach them all, unfortunately. But there is one thing I would like to hear from the rapporteur, because I understand from the rapporteur that it is an improvement on the current epidemic law, but if a majority voted against today, what is the alternative? What is the rapporteur's idea of happening on Monday when the current epidemic law comes to an end because of the sunset clause and we are in the middle of an epidemic? Is this a responsible approach to politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193058	Basically, I do not like the idea of taking the Danish Parliament and the people as a hostage to vote something through right up to the deadline, because you have hesitated with it. That responsibility lies primarily with the government, that is, that we are here five minutes in closing time. Secondly, it is the responsibility of those parties which have reached a bad agreement before Christmas and have thus given the government carte blanche to sit back over the Christmas holidays and in January. One could have said no to that agreement; one could have said that it was not good enough. There have been 84 amendments since. One could have admitted and acknowledged that that agreement was not good enough, and then one could have sat down and moved on. But we said no to that agreement in December, because we did not think it was good enough, and that is why we cannot vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193145	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193146	As the rapporteur is well aware, part of the agreement was precisely that we should take into account consultation answers and table amendments when we were aware of any criticisms, as all the parties responsible have done to a large extent. That is why we have a significantly improved epidemic law today. One of the things mentioned by the rapporteur is that some crazy coercion could be done on the basis of corona and that the government could intercept people, and I know what, but that is not true. On the contrary, it will not be up to the government. It will be up to the majority for the interventions that are coming. That is why we have made an epidemic committee where there must be a majority. If there is a majority against, and if there is a majority against in the Folketing, we can reverse it at any time. I do not understand at all the criticism made by the rapporteur from the platform. It's completely misguided. It's a new epidemic law we're discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193235	But if we did not think that the concern we had about the democratic annexation of the committee was a problem, I do not understand the opposition to making a minority protection in it, for which we have had a proposal; then I do not understand why this request for minority protection has been rejected. Why is it that you fear it so much that you don't want it with? In my optics it is because there is something to be done in that area, because we are going to have a majority, a socialist majority, which has no proportion whatsoever in this. The government has not had the right proportions at all about decommissioning and about the things that have been done. Now they get a committee where they can get left-wing support to go even further if they want to. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193319	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193322	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that, in my opinion, there were a number of flaws in the rapporteur's speech in relation to what this epidemic law could be used for. However, what I would like to ask the rapporteur is that I simply do not understand what the rapporteur means by saying that this means that a majority of the House has a different view of proportionality from that of the rapporteur. So, what is it in a democratic process that the rapporteur considers to be aggressive when it comes to parliamentary control? Because it is true that, when there is parliamentary control, it means that it is politicians who are being held responsible for the decisions that are being taken and we must ensure that they do so on the basis of as professionally based a basis as possible. But what does the rapporteur think there is a problem with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193411	First of all, I would like to say that I understand that Enhedslisten looks at this differently than we do. In other words, we are a bourgeois party and we are concerned about the fundamental rights of citizens and about the concepts of freedom. Enhedslisten has a different view of coercion, a different view of state governance than we have. So I understand that we look at this differently and that Enhedslisten sees this as positive legislation, while I do not see it as positive legislation. This committee is a closed committee, and that means that it restricts citizens' ability to look at politicians in the cards. This limits the opportunities for the media to look at politicians in the cards. If instead we took it down here in the Chamber for a public debate, I think there would be more support for the actions we would be taking. So that is the concern I have about it and the reason why I would rather have had it down here in the Parliamentary Chamber than in a closed committee room.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193502	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193504	Now I have to say that the rapporteur should simply have his mouth washed with soap. Because when the rapporteur stands and says that we on the left are obsessed with coercion, I would say that we have fought through some of the guarantees of legal certainty, among others. our good allies in the Left in relation to ensuring automatic judicial review, in relation to ensuring that fundamental freedoms are defended. So when you talk about this legislation as an expression of some obscene compulsion that characterizes a majority in the Folketing, that is simply not right. And it is simply not fair to take that debate down to that level either. I don't think that's fair, and I think that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen should be dealing with what is the political substance of this: what is the problem with democratic control in relation to epidemic legislation? What is it that makes it a problem that it is a majority in parliament that it is a political majority that can define whether or not to go further than what the health authorities recommend?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193606	I just thought I was trying to relate to it. I specifically mentioned what I thought was the problem with the committee. Secondly, I explained why this is a problem with the concept of proportionality. Because Enhedslisten and I don't see the same thing. It is clear that what is actually coercive does not see Enhedslisten as coercive. What's extreme doesn't see Enhedslisten as extreme. And that applies to so many things that we are debating in here. When we talk about the world's highest tax burden that we have in Denmark, Enhedslisten doesn't find it extreme. The reality is that it's extreme. And the reality is that, in many of the things that Enhedslisten does not regard as coercive, there are
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193638	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193642	Thank you. I just have to follow up on that, that is to say on my good colleague back here, because that is a very special definition, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathiesen has what democracy really means. So I'm just gonna ask sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, whether the citizens have put together an undemocratic parliament because they happened to choose to have a red majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193705	No, I don't think so. They just put together a wrong one, I think. And I understand perfectly well that if we go from a communist to a socialist, there is probably not much difference in how we look at the obsessive concepts. Well, I just have a different concept understanding than that of socialists and communists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193721	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193723	Then I would just like to turn to my colleagues on the other side of the House and say: how good it is that we can very often, fortunately, make broad agreements on health in particular. And we have a good tradition of making broad agreements on health because we know that that is what is going on. So thank you to a large part of the Folketing for helping to adopt this epidemic law under the conditions under which it has happened. And I really regret the rapporteur's view of democracy in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193753	It's funny that before I joined the Folketing, I had that feeling that this is the only place where saying no can't also mean taking responsibility. As far as all other aspects of life are concerned, we teach our children and all sorts of others that it is okay to say no and that saying no to something may actually also be taking responsibility. But in here there is some dogma that if there are parties that do not want what the majority decides on, they are irresponsible; then they will not take responsibility. It may also be to take responsibility to say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193827	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And please prepare the rapporteur for the next rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups, who has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223193853	Thank you. After all, L 134 is far better than the law we now have, and it might also have become almost good if we had had some more time to get it through so that we did not get into this haste in the end. It is quite clear that we need an epidemic law, but after great and long reflections, we in the Free Greens have come to the conclusion that we unfortunately have to vote against it. We have made five proposals along the way in order to increase legal certainty and have included four of them, and we are, of course, pleased about that. And we have also supported a great deal of the amendments and are really rather sorry that the amendments tabled by the Left, in relation to the fact that the law was to be revised in October, did not come through, because then we had just arranged for it to be looked at again. In general, however, we believe that there is still too much power to use coercion as a tool. There is a lack of access to justice... the right to appeal is not strong enough. And legal certainty is simply too weak. There is too much coercion and too little confidence in the population and too little focus on the information that needs to be given to the population so that they can make the right choices and act sensibly and responsibly, as we have seen far along the way in this epidemic. There is too little confidence in the employees and the decentralised authorities. However, it is good that a review is still being carried out, and we would like to take part in that work. But we shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194032	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Lars Løkke Rasmussen outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194038	Thank you. It was really just for understanding. When the rapporteur praised this amendment, which until yesterday was apparently also a majority in favour of an enforced revision in the autumn, as I myself think would be wise, we should understand that, if there had been a majority in favour of that amendment, we would be prepared to support the draft law here today, given that the legislation that everything else is just being adopted here today is, after all, better than the emergency law that exists, or how could that be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194107	It should not have been understood that way, but it would have been a good thing, just as we have voted for the good amendments which have done better, but it is still not good enough, and it would not have been, but it would have been a sure step for us to do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194124	Another comment? No. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur and will the rapporteur prepare for the next speaker? It's sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who wishes to speak as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194145	Thank you, President. We do not have a tradition in Denmark of holding referendums unless, under the Constitution, we have to do so, and yet, if you remember, there are a few examples where we have actually done so because the situation has called for it. In 1993 there were more than five sixths of the majority in favour of the Maastricht Treaty. Nevertheless, a referendum was chosen. In 1986 there was a parliamentary situation in which, although the Treaty on paper did not transfer new powers to the European Union, it was not decided in Article 20 to hold a referendum. The epidemic law, which is most likely to be voted through here shortly, may not be comparable on the surface with an EU treaty, and yet: if you listen to the expertise out in reality, there are at least some voices that go in the direction of perhaps comparing the seriousness of the epidemic law we have before us today. As a professor of law at the University of Copenhagen and researcher of the disaster Kristian Lauta says, this is an individual piece of legislation that may be the most extensive. He also says that the consequence of the law here is that we will have an increased risk of the law being abused in the future and that we will potentially have lower legal certainty for the individual citizen. That concern has to be taken seriously, and that is why, in this case, there is reason to review whether it would not be sensible to ask the people not because we in the Danish People's Party dispute that the Folketing is of course in its good, legitimate right to drive through with the even quite comfortable majority that seems to be in favour of this law, but simply to ensure that people also have a feeling of having been consulted. When we see that even the Danish Health Authority makes reservations about the bill that the government has put forward and has negotiated, even in some quite vital areas - yes, you directly evade the law - then there is reason to make sure that the law we are adopting today also has the support of the people, whether in terms of data protection, judicial proceedings, whether it is a ban on visits to our nursing home, or whether it is a requirement of isolation, which can be imposed on party guests, football fans, or what I know. Whatever the case, we have an interest, even after this law has been passed, in the fact that those on the Palace Square, those around the country who are concerned in the public gallery and elsewhere, are also being consulted, and we can do that precisely by holding a referendum. That is why the Danish People's Party's proposal does not, as we talked about earlier, according to section 42 of the Constitution, for it would do so precisely if there were to be a third of the Things that would have to sign that this law would then be postponed. We do not want that. We think this is a bad law, but of course we need an epidemic law in this country. On the other hand, we are going to make an independent proposal on whether or not it would be wise, perhaps in the middle of September, to set a day when the Danes were going to vote, so that in good time the next seven months we can have all parts of this law put to an end. Unfortunately, we have to say that to some extent the government has at least tried to keep things hidden from the Danish Parliament, for example the Danish Health Authority's consultation contribution, which only a very short time ago came to Parliament's attention after it had been lying and gathering dust in the Ministry for four months. It is not reassuring either for confidence in democracy or for confidence in the law that a majority of the members of the Folketing are likely to vote through. We therefore need another instrument to ensure trust between us as Danes, as democrats, but also between the Folketing and the people, and that is precisely where the referendum instrument is fantastic. So, although we have no tradition of using it, other than when we are forced to do so, we believe that it is the situation here that is calling for it, and that is why I would like to say, and that is why I took the floor as a privateist, that we in the Danish People's Party will therefore table such a motion for a resolution in the expectation that it can be dealt with before the day of the Constitution and, hopefully, that at least a majority in the time that may go from now until the first reading can see the reason why we have a referendum and, hopefully, a revision, now that the red majority has rejected the excellent amendment that has been voted on, on an enforced revision. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194653	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194659	Thank you. That is just an enlightening comment, because I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Morten Messerschmide in that trust is important • trust from the public, trust from the Folketing of course. That is why it is also important to inform Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, of course, did not in the follow-up group for covid-19 that the objections from the Danish Health Service have been known to us since sometime in the autumn. It is true that the details, e-mails etc. have been sent over here only last week, but for those of us who have attended the meetings, there was nothing new about it. It is just to inform you that there is nothing in the objections and comments that have been made by the Danish Health Service which have been hidden from us who have been sitting and negotiating it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194738	No, but I do not think it would be an exaggeration to say that it was new to quite a large proportion of the population, and with these very violent interventions being put in place, it is just extremely important that the people in the broad sense feel that they have been consulted, that nothing has been put under the carpet, etc. etc. And for example... Kent Kristensen, associate professor of health law at the University of Southern Denmark, says, and I quote: "I miss the fact that the Danish Health Authority will have more influence. After all, it may be possible for ministers to try to put together a committee in which views that challenge them are less represented. When these are the sort of quotes we have in the social debate today, they call it conspiracy theories, and it calls for a belief that not everything has come to light. And we cannot live with that when it is a law that is so intrusive, and that is why a referendum and the debate that will take precedence over it will be a very good instrument to ensure that everything is brought forward in the light.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194828	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194829	I fully agree with Mr. Morten Messerschmide in that openness and transparency are crucial, and we have fought for this since March last year. Everything needs to be said, and I also think it is very good that it has come out so that people can see what the Danish Health Authority had of comments, both positive and negative, to the bill we have now considered. My point was simply to point out that it is not something that has been hidden from the rapporteurs who have sat and dealt with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194851-2	I fully understand that. The point of the proposal for a referendum is not so much that the 179 honourable Members should feel safe, but that the entire Danish population should be able to feel safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194902	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmide. Then there are no more brief comments. Another privateist signed up for the list of speakers. Since a great many Members are present in the Chamber now and there is also some noise in the Palace Square, I would ask you to keep the conversations out in the back room. The next person who has asked for the floor is Mr Seligman. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223194927	Thank you. Denmark must, of course, have an epidemic law. And it is quite obvious that the epidemic law that Denmark had when corona hit us was not up to date. Of course I have a share of responsibility for this, just as the rest of Parliament does. If you have to find some sort of excuse, it is surely the case that the legislation last revised in 2007 was there and that everyone had their head elsewhere and thought: we will probably not really need it. But we did get that, and the law that applied did not apply, and therefore urgent legislation was put in place. My vote also counts behind urgent legislation, although I did not appear in the Chamber that day, but I was a member of a party that voted in favour. Life is too short for regret. Should you regret one thing anyway, it should perhaps be the emergency law, for it gave the government legio powers, as it has now had a year to show how it manages and it has not been a pretty sight. It has been extremely self-willing, and one has to take this with oneself in some way when one has to decide here today what it is for permanent legislation that Denmark must have in the field of epidemics. For at least now we know how the current government intends to manage it. I have only a short speaking time as a privateist, so to be brief, I would like to refer to the debate a great deal along the way, and that is not because I am inclined to draw others before me on the speech made by the rapporteur for the new citizens. There is a question of proportionality to extreme caution; there is a question of the role to be played by the authorities; and in the legislative proposal which is about to be adopted, it seems to me to be unbalanced. I am probably not the only one who thinks so, and that is why there have also been parties which have pressed for a review to be carried out in the autumn in a situation in which this draft law, which will be adopted shortly, is clearly better than the urgent legislation in force. I simply do not understand why there can be no majority for it, but there can be no majority for it. The only way in which one can say de facto that one considers this to be a wrong balance is therefore not to support the draft law, and I do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195211	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. There isn't, but I can now see that Mr. Martin Geertsen wants the floor for a second round. Welcome to sir. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195233	I do not think there is any reason to hide the fact that over the last few hours we have been discussing a piece of legislation which is of a very, very important nature and which, when it comes to implementing it, may have a very intrusive character vis-à-vis the Danish population. We are some parties which have been pushing for a year now to change the emergency law under which we are living; who have wanted to have more democratic control; who have wanted us to know the difference between politics and health attitudes; who have worked hard on this piece of legislation. We then have a government which has tried in every way possible to delay that process. We have a government which, in the best of my terms, has the primary responsibility for the fact that this law has in the end had a perfectly tumultarian course, at a time when attempts have been made to delay the process time after time. We have had a government, and many speakers have mentioned that which has acted completely headstrongly over the past year without asking anyone for advice on anything. Now we come to the day when a majority in the Folketing will adopt a new epidemic law, which we have thus used massively with forces across also normal political divisions, and then not a single representative of the governing party has spoken. I think it is simply indecent that not one representative of the governing party has been up here on the platform defending what has been done over the past year and has no opinion whatsoever on what other parties have spent a whole year on. The government has no opinion on this at the third reading of probably one of the most important pieces of legislation that we are going to adopt in this session. I think it's lax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195527	I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the hall. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it comes from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195532	I would just like to know whether the rapporteur of the Left is aware that we had a first reading in which there was ample opportunity both to hear the Socialist rapporteur tell us why it was that this epidemic law was a good idea, and indeed a social democratic minister, that is to say, two social democrats at first reading, for which we had plenty of time and where there was a possibility of questions, and there was a subsequent committee reading. There's been so much time, sir. Martin Geertsen has had the opportunity and opportunity to both listen to social democrats and discuss politics and epidemic law with social democrats. I actually think we've been discussing this one year now, so the outrage that is being presented from the platform seems a little taken on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195623	The fact that the Socialist rapporteur has the nerve to stand and ask me questions when the Socialist rapporteur has not been up here on the platform seems to me to be a matter of confession.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195638	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195642	The Left rapporteur did not answer the question. So, I assume that the rapporteur of the Left has seen myself, the Social Democrat rapporteur, stand on the platform and discuss this particular law with Mr. Martin Geertsen. Why is it that sir... Martin Geertsen hasn't noticed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195705	If sir... Rasmus Horn Langhoff has not discovered that the whole process of this piece of legislation over the last few months has had a completely tumultarian course, I simply do not know what kind of world it is, Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff has been in. That is why I think it is a nerve that not a single representative of the government parties has the b...
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195747	There is a brief comment on Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195751	Thank you. I would actually just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to confirm that, in view of all the amendments tabled by the Left and the negotiations that have taken place, the legislative proposal we were discussing at first reading is by no means similar to the one we were discussing at first reading. In view of that, would it not also be natural for the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur to take the floor, and in this way also to indicate what is behind the Socialists and the Government, in any case, either to agree or to disagree with the concessions that we others have made in the course of this debate? Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left on this matter whether the rapporteur of the Left can give one good reason why the Minister is not taking the floor today in connection with this very important legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195848	Yes to all the first, and no to the last.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195853	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195854	I very much agree with the rapporteur of the Left, and I am sure that this is quite striking in these times when I understand that certain Conservative Members, in the light of the debate earlier today, have gained more personalities, but I think that this is because we in the Left have one liberal view, even when it is important that we now have the improved version of the Code of Epidemics, which is not in line, but is better than what was from the beginning, thanks to the work that has been done. That is why I would like to conclude by asking whether the Minister is sorry, the rapporteur could imagine other governments where a minister did not go to the platform during the examination of such an important legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195936	I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur, since it is the rapporteur who is standing on the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223195940	I had hoped to give the floor to the Minister, but I cannot. I shall not be able to say whether you can find precedents, but please try to hear that we have a piece of legislation that has called for a great deal of discussion, both in here, in the public and especially out at Christiansborg Palace Square, and it seems to me quite unnatural that the government or, if nothing else, a representative of the governing party does not just stand in front of that discussion. I think you owe it to me to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200017	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200021	Thank you for that, President. Now, of course, I have to be careful because I have not been involved in the negotiations and am not in that committee, but I have listened to what has been going on. And, as Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby says, there have been major changes to this bill since it was first dealt with. But how does the rapporteur feel about the government party behind this proposal not taking the floor at the third reading after amendments have been made to the proposal? Could one not get the impression that it is because the governing party would prefer not to answer critical questions about this bill, so that they would rather not have a debate where we could ask them questions about the epidemic law? Then it is better just to say: no, we do not speak, because then it goes through quite freely. That is the impression you can get, and that is the impression that people can get. I don't know if sir. Martin Geertsen agrees with me on the impression I have received here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200115	Well, I very much agree with that. And it has to be said that this is going to be a game of interpretation, because no one from the governing parties has wanted to speak. Well, then you have to try to stand up here and like translate what you could imagine could be the explanation, right? Some of it could be that, in addition to what I have mentioned, we have actually delayed the process. After all, we also tabled a bill in September which was contrary to the intentions of a majority in the Danish Parliament and what they wanted. That may be the reason why we do not want to speak now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200152	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200155	But that is the impression that remains. I do not believe that the debate we have now and the questions we have put to the rapporteur up there move that one of the Social Democrats will go up and take the floor. I simply do not believe that. So we just have to accept that perhaps there is something that the Social Democratic Party would prefer not to debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200220	Yeah. And I would just like to say on behalf of my own party that we have at least tried to take responsibility for many of the changes that have been made in various ways, in the best and poor way possible. Lars Boje Mathiesen was both when we made our own proposal back in September when we made a political agreement and when we tabled amendments here. We have not been alone in this; there have been many good forces across the political centre, which have tried to improve the original draft law with which the government played out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200253	The next brief remark is to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200258	Thank you. I should like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether the rapporteur believes that the Minister for Health is simply afraid to answer questions and that is why the Minister does not take the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200309	I'm not gonna be able to say that. Now it's again interpretations, but I just think it's a shame that the Minister for Health doesn't say anything. This is a very complicated piece of legislation and, I believe, one of the most important legislation we have in this assembly of parliaments, I would almost judge it to be. And there perhaps I just think it would have been fair to hear the Minister for Health, although I agree with Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff said that the debate was also held at first reading. But listen to me: a lot has happened in the meantime, and that is why I thought it was quite natural that the Minister for Health, on the floor of the Parliament, made himself available to answer questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200349	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200351	It is also very unusual for us to sit with a minister who is staring down at the table rather than looking up and taking part in the debate when we have such a strong and violent debate as we have exactly about this bill, and who is also recording people outside this Chamber. But my question to the Left rapporteur is this: the Left rapporteur is now in the second round, so the Left rapporteur believes that somehow we could motivate the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff to take the floor so that we can have the debate with the Social Democratic Party when the Minister does not want to go up on the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200431	I'm not gonna be able to tell you. I think we are where we have to say that we need a representative of one of the governing parties up here in order to answer several questions from the political opposition. I think it would be the most reasonable thing for a government representative to come up and answer any questions that might be addressed to the government. I think that would be most reasonable. I have tried to interpret why the governing parties will not answer questions. I think it's lax. I've explained that to you and that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200509	Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200515	When I joined Parliament some time ago, it was at least more than 14 days ago that I learned something from one of my good teachers back then. It was: Christian, don't ask our own people anything, it seems ridiculous. I've been trying to live by that because it seems a little stupid when you do it to be confirmed. I would like to appeal to us to take this seriously, because this is a very serious law we are dealing with. It is a good thing that you are playing with each other, the Left and the Social Democrats, but it is a law that we must adopt now, and it is a law that we have discussed. It has been chaotic and I am not satisfied with the Socialists, but I certainly think we should try to get together to get this work done properly and decently. There are people sitting at home and saying, "What the hell is this circus?" I'm sorry to the chairman for swearing. However, I would like to appeal to it, and the rapporteur has also tried to do so, and he has said that he cannot answer that question. But we can't sit around and do things like that. That's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200609	My message was that alone, I would say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that I do not think it is right that there are no representatives of the governing party who stand up here and defend a piece of legislation which has been a year in the process and where it is my opinion that the governing party, the social democracy, the government, has tried to delay the process. That was the message, and I stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200637	Sir. Christian Juhl with another comment? No. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200647	Thank you. I had decided otherwise that I did not think it would make sense to interfere in something that has come to look like the Left Group meeting, but I do so anyway. It's just to get things straight. For now, for the second time this evening, the rapporteur has given the same speech as the rapporteur, and that is perhaps one of the reasons why it has taken so long to adopt this law. It is the same rapporteur's speech in which the rapporteur reiterates that we have been discussing this epidemic law for a year now. Well, a year ago, we hadn't even started discussing an epidemic law. So first of all, it's less time. Secondly, we have certainly spent a very, very long time on this law. We have used consultations, we have had technical reviews, and the rapporteur himself has called for several consultations. Does the rapporteur honestly believe that we have not had ample opportunity to discuss this law in depth?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200739	That doesn't change it. I know that as far back as June, when a majority of the Parliamentary Health Committee adopted a report that we wanted to have a different type of legislation, the SF was a little hard to pull up the momentum on that issue. Then, of course, the government will sign a bill in September, which goes against what a majority of the Committee on Health had decided. It is probably the main anchor in relation to the government when it comes to how fast one has been in the starting blocks in relation to conforming to what the Folketing really wanted. So you stalled that process. So I agree with Mrs Kirsten Andersen that we have had a lot of consultations and technical reviews and consultations and things like that, but that does not alter at least my perception that the government has tried to delay this process. My message is just that we have just spent a lot of time on it, and that is why I do not think it is good that the government will not stand up here on the platform and relate to something that we and the Folketing and the people have spent a great deal of time on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200847	I just got some follow-up for it. The rapporteur and I have been in incredibly many debates together, at least that is how it feels, and I remember that the rapporteur has been very much in agreement with me in all the proposals we have made in the course of this process. We have agreed that we should have a central Epidemic Commission, that we should have democratic control, that we should have forced vaccinations out. In general, we have just agreed on a number of points and all those points are part of the epidemic law today. Can the rapporteur not confirm that everything that we agreed on when we were in the joint debate is also the result today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200923	First of all, I remember the other way round, namely that it was Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen who agreed with me. But it doesn't matter. Yes, but that is not why I have spoken here in the second round. The reason I have taken the floor here in the second round is that I think it is beneath all criticism that the government will not deal with something that the rest of us have spent so long on and where I think the brakes have been hung. I think that would be fair of the government party, hello! Now I repeat myself, I would say to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, but this is an important piece of legislation that the government does not want to deal with and does not bother, I would have liked to say, to use its energy to stand up here and deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223200957	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201002	I must admit that I think, sir. Martin Geertsen reveals himself as an almost immature man, an old type, in what he is doing here. Because my impression was that it was actually so widely acknowledged that if you want to communicate with the government, it goes on social media, of course, and if you go into Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff's facebook page, you can get full answers. If you just come down over an interview in the evening show where he's been discussing hairdresser openings with mr. Dennis Knudsen, you can see that 8 hours ago an interview was set up which has been given to Berlingske, where Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff writes: Give us answers to the indictment in the debate about the coming epidemic law. And as many as five have commented on that. Then Mr. Martin Geertsen in that light is not allowed to revise his seizure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201103	I fully understand that much policy and policy development can take place on social media. You shouldn't be pale about that. But I also think that politics is going on here, and that is just what I am trying to say in all silence in this speech, so I think it would be fair for the government to deal with one of the most complicated and most intrusive pieces of legislation in this House. I think that would have been fair, and I think that would have dressed the government, but the government wouldn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201145	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201147	I just want to confirm that it is nice to be old-fashioned and that I am also very much in favour of the analogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201158	The rapporteur? The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201208	I really hope that I am the last person on the list of speakers, because I think this has been a matter of hats and glasses. I think it is a great mockery, and I do not think anyone has anything to let each other hear. If it had been a bourgeois minister, he would not have gone to the platform either. That's how the game works in here. You've done this together. Are you going to defend yourself against those with whom you've done something? Can't we just argue when we've done something that we don't agree with when one has done something that the other doesn't like? I mean, I think this is unworthy, and I think that people in the living rooms cross and think: When is this game gonna stop? Because there is no professionalism in it anymore, there are no arguments in it anymore, there is no health debate in it anymore. After all, it has faded into a kind of competition to be most scoffy, and I think it is democracy that is losing out. I don't think people think it's great to sit and listen at home in the living rooms. So my appeal will be: can we stop it now and then move on with the professional things we have to deal with in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201308	I would hope that if it had been a bourgeois minister of health, it would have had a parliamentary basis that had told the minister concerned: can you get on the floor? But I understand that this government seems to have a parliamentary basis that does not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201328	I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the hall. The knocking on the tables is not something that is usually called for. Sir. Torsten Gejl has not marked another remark, and I can say to Mr. Martin Geertsen that no one else has asked for the floor for short remarks. Yes, there is. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201357	Thank you. I fully share the rapporteur's outrage at the arrogance shown by the fact that the government-leading party does not interfere in this debate. It's kind of just a reflection of the willfulness that has influenced the handling of this whole matter that is the basis of this legislation. You just have to take that down. Nevertheless, it is the minister and the government that are now endowed with these powers, and so I would really just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not reflect a little over the wisdom of voting in favour of this legislation without the government at least wanting to grant the concession that a very large minority yesterday was actually a majority in favour of it, namely an enforced revision in the autumn. Did the experience here today not reflect on the wisdom of it? And...
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201506	That is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201508	I know the rapporteur well enough to know how the rapporteur would probably have completed the sentence, so it will be all right. Well, I just want to say that the whole process here has given rise to lots of reflections. As I said in the first round, I sincerely believe that this is far better than the epidemic law we have now, and it is therefore not an alternative to me that we do not have an epidemic law here after 1 March. It is simply not, and the other alternative would have been that at an earlier stage we should have decided that we should now simply extend the epidemic law that we have now, and I do not think that is an alternative either. I have seen it as my first task to try to draw this in a direction in which more parliamentary control came, in other words, where there was greater clarity about what is medical advice and what is politics. So I really think this is significantly better than what we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201612	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201615	I fully agree with that, and I would like to pay tribute to the efforts that have been made there. That's not really what I'm asking. Then it's not that predictable how I'd end. What I am really asking is whether, when you experience the willfulness which is now also taking place in the arrogance that has been shown here today, you do not reflect on whether you should have played it a little harder and now I say it in Danish: Dear Government, if we are to be involved in taking responsibility for this epidemic law, which still presents some challenges, a number of outstanding issues and a considerable competence for the minister we have experienced with silence here today, then we have the condition that is indispensable, namely that we should have this matter back in the Parliamentary Assembly this autumn. My own consideration would probably be that the government would say, faced with such a demand, that it would have liked to have a broad majority in the Folketing taking responsibility for this legislation, and so hard against it had bowed to it. After all, there is no indication that friendly recommendations to this government will work unless the Minister surprises us in a moment by asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201725	In this way, a majority had been created outside the government, and I think perhaps in reality I was most surprised by those who, by the way, were involved in what we saw as a majority in favour of the revision clause, which was then suddenly not. Well, I agree that this gives rise to reflection, and that can then be resolved by other parliamentary methods, and that must then be considered.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201753	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I look closely at the screen to make sure that no one else has marked, and there isn't. So thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, and no one else has asked for the floor, and that is why we are now going to vote. However, before we start the vote, it is important for each Member to look at the screen that is before him in order to make sure that it is one's own name that appears in the voting panel and, if that is the case, I will start the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201830	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on and a vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 81 votes (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and ALT), against 15 votes (DF, NB, Jens Rohde (UFG), Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201916	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223201944	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 95 votes (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Jens Rohde (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 0 abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 20.35, i.e. for 15 minutes, so that there can be cleaned in the seats and we in the meeting and voting system can move you all back to your normal seats, and thus ask all Members to leave the Chamber in good order.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223203504	The sitting is resumed. The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223203529	Thank you. After all, this resolution is about the EU budget for the next seven years, what is a little popularly called the MFF, and it is about restoring the European economy after corona. This is, of course, a compromise, but it is a compromise with really strong and decisive Danish fingerprints. The EU budget is modernised to focus and spend more of the common funds on climate change, on research and development and on the protection of external borders and on addressing the migration challenge. It was crucial priorities for Denmark and the Danish Government that they managed to turn up the things that are important for the future without the budget running out of control. In addition, we adopted a common European recovery plan and it must help to ensure that, through targeted investment, we not only bring the European economies back to what they were before corona and bring unemployment down again, but hopefully also bring us a better place where we are better equipped for the future, where we can better respond to the challenges of the future, be it in terms of digitalisation or the green transition. We are investing together out of the crisis, just as we are doing at home. It is no secret that when we discussed the recovery plan, our starting point was that it should be arranged as a loan. It is a healthy principle that we help each other, but that we also pay back the aid, which is why we are very pleased that we managed to get the balance up as significantly as we actually did in the negotiations. The European Union must take the lead in the climate struggle, and with this agreement, it can be said that with the percentages locked up for the green transition, we will actually have 4 000 billion. DKK to be invested in the green conversion. And that says something about the fact that if you agree to move in an area within the European Union, you can also move more than you can if you do it individually or if half of you do not. As I imagine anyone will be discussing today, this does not introduce an EU tax. Taxes are something that the Member States are levying, but we have established a mechanism whereby, if you will say so, we reward the Member States who are better at moving in the green direction and we have introduced a principle of a rule of law mechanism so that we link compliance with the basic common rules of the game with the money coming from the EU budget and the subsidies granted. Last but not least, it is of course also important for us that we had a historic Danish discount of 2.7 billion. kr. It is reasonable in a situation where Denmark pays a lot to the community. We are happy to do so, but there must also be reasonableness in it, which is why it was really, really good. I believe that with the EU's new budget we are taking important steps in the green transition, in the modernisation of the budget and in a stronger European economy, where we are investing wisely out of the crisis, and all this is happening in a situation where the British farewell left a large extra bill for the other remaining EU countries. In this situation, it was vitally important that the Danish Government and the Prime Minister stood firm both in moderation and modernisation in the debate, and thus managed to deliver a really good and solid result that gives the EU a good basis for the efforts of the years to come. The Social Democrats support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223203913	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223203920	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Jens Joel agrees with me that if it were just the budget that we had to discuss, there would be no reason to have this debate, because that does not require a resolution. After all, we have taken that discussion and we can take it back for my sake, but all that green stuff isn't the reason we're here today. We're among others. together, because additional own resources are being made for the EU, where the EU, independently of the countries, is being given an amount directly into the box. This is, of course, a fundamental discussion, and it is also intended to go further along this path of own resources, including financial transaction levies and other taxes of the kind that are to go directly into the European Union's treasury. That is why I would like to see the fundamental attitude of the Social Democratic Party towards this development. Is that something that the Social Democrats are in favour of, in other words, that more and more revenue for the European Union should be independent of what is granted by Member States and be own resources for the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204026	This is not something that the Member States do not grant. But it is true that some of the things that go into the budget now will be coupled with how good you are at reducing, for example, the amount of non-recyclable plastic waste. And in this way, it can be said that we live in a green incentive, but it is still important to say that it is not a tax that the EU collects, it is a contribution that Denmark provides and, incidentally, the other EU countries • on the basis of how good you are at drawing in the green direction. Indeed, we think it is a healthy incentive to reward the countries that are at the forefront of the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204104	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204107	I am impressed by the ability of the Socialist rapporteur to refrain from dealing with the principle of the issue, because the principle is that more own resources should be set aside for the European Union, that is to say, it is directly in the text and then the first step is this, and others must be introduced by 2023, and more must come after that. And then allow me to put the question of principle to the Socialist rapporteur: does the Social Democrats think that the European Union should be financed by contributions decided jointly between the Member States, or does the Socialist rapporteur think it is good that more and more revenue for the European Union should come from so-called own resources?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204155	I really hear two questions: what about the next proposals that come and how will they be dealt with? And I would like to say that I cannot say that in advance, because in the case of the levy or, what is to be said, the contribution based on plastic waste we chose to say that it was a sensible arrangement. But it is clear that it is a national exclusive competence to levy taxes, and that is why, as we did in this context, we will of course insist that it remains a national exclusive competence to levy taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204231	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204237	Well, I think that Mr. Knox... Jens Joel doesn't really answer Mr Joel's question. Søren Søndergaard's reasonable and very precise questions. For a State that has own resources leads to a form of state formation, and that is why the European Union must have its own resources. Whether you call them taxes, taxes or anything else, it is an own resource that will ultimately be imposed on citizens. And then it says that if all these plans to generate extra own resources for the Union do not go ahead, the Member States will have to pay more. Does the Social Democrats and the rapporteur agree that more must be paid if these own resources cannot cover this excessive debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204347	In other words, all that the European Union has, if you may say so, is money paid by the members of the club, in other words, all the countries. Now there will be some of the contribution you pay, which is based on this plastic, i.e. how much non-recyclable plastic waste you have. But that doesn't change the fact that there is no one else to pay than those who are in the club, and that is why you can of course say that if you agree to distribute the bill in a different way forward, it can change exactly what the Danish contribution is going to be. I would think, without having any figures on this, that it would be a good idea for us to let more of it depend on the progress made in the green transition, because we have made a great deal of progress in this area. So you can't say a hundred percent how it works out. However, it is of course important for us that we make contributions to the joint efforts we are making in the European Union, and not a tax levied by the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204453	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204455	After all, it is only two thirds of the EU budget that the Member States' contributions make up. And it says here in this resolution, which the rapporteur is in favour of, that if the money is not enough to repay the loan on the recovery plan, the Member States must contribute more, that is to say, that the contribution of the Member States must increase and Denmark will pay more. Does the rapporteur think that it is a good idea for Denmark to pay more to the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204531	In other words, the rapporteur thinks it is a good idea that the problems we cannot solve alone will be solved together in the European Union, and that may be the climate challenge or other things to deal with. And yes, with this budget, we had among other things. the challenge that Britain, which was another major contributor, left cooperation, and it is clear that the other challenge that we have in the European Union, such as the climate, will not necessarily be as much less of a result of the disappearance of Britain, which is why there will still be a task for us to finance, and there will be no one other than the Member States. But we do not want Denmark to pay more to the EU just to pay more, of course not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204616	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223204637	Thank you for the floor and thank the Minister for Finance for asking for the consent of the Folketing to ratify the system of own resources of the European Union, which we in the Left are happy to give. The negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund have been long and tough both at home, but also in the European Union. We all want as much money as possible. It's clear. And I also think we've landed in a really nice place. Where we normally budget at home for one year at a time and, moreover, can settle for a majority, the EU budget is then laid for seven years and requires the unanimity of all EU countries. So there are many interests to be taken into account, and while most countries have been able to agree that more money needs to be spent on migration, security, education and the climate, this time we have a huge gap after brexit, which of course must be closed. Many would have thought that would be one of the major points of dispute, but then there came a corona epidemic and turned everything upside down. It can be said that the agreement on the EU's multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund has been the art of the possible. Now, however, a budget is not just about the priorities for expenditure and the distribution of them. It is indeed also about the financing of them. In this respect, I have noticed that fierce opponents of the European Union are busy spreading fake news, as it is called. Most people in this Chamber have certainly heard about the information I am thinking of; some may even have been involved in spreading it. It is, of course, a question of whether the European Union has begun to levy taxes. Only the day before yesterday I received a letter; or it was an open letter to the government and all the members of the Folketing, so perhaps the rest of you have also had the pleasure of reading it. The letter's authors would like to warn us before today's debate on the EU's own resources system, as they believe that the wording of the EU's own resources actually allows the EU to levy taxes. The authors refer here to the new source of income, which is based on the amount of unused plastic packaging generated in the Member States. But it is quite wrong that there should be an EU tax, and I would therefore like to emphasize something here from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament that I would have had a piece of cardboard, I think I had cut it out, and if I had had some neon, I would have started to bend it. But let me be as clear as I can be: the European Union cannot levy taxes. That would be contrary to the Treaty and therefore there is no new hidden tax wrapped in unused plastic packaging. On the other hand, it is a change in the distribution of the contribution, which is fully in line with our VAT and GNP contributions to the EU budget. These are different ways of measuring the contribution, and this is just a new addition, which will benefit Denmark, will benefit the climate and will benefit the environment, because we are one of the countries that is better than the average to recycle plastics. So there is a benefit to climate policy in this way of collecting contributions, which is not the case with the other national contributions, and I am not sure I can say it much more clearly, so I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205005	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205008	I understand from the Left that as a party we are opposed to tax increases in Denmark, most recently in connection with the police reform or the police agreement. It was left outside because part of it was financed by means of a tax increase. Now we have a resolution on the European Union and the budget which envisages a series of tax increases or the introduction of taxes. In addition to plastic that cannot be recycled, it is also about CO2 so I have to understand whether the Left is in favour of taxes at EU level while you are against them in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205111	I can't imagine that sir. Alex Ahrendtsen may have heard my speech. No one in Denmark is going to pay a plastic tax to the EU. There are no companies that are going to pay a plastic tax. There are no citizens who are going to pay a plastic tax. I mean, it's fantasy. That is why it is a rather strange question to have to answer, for it has a false premise. But that is one of the things we are up against in the EU debate. It is that opponents find it extremely difficult to relate to facts, but invent their own claims about what we are discussing. It just makes it extremely difficult. And then maybe I'm a little too tired after a long day to actually giggle into the big controversy with Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205158	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205200	Is it not true that the motion for a resolution says that a tax on plastics is being introduced; that there are plans to introduce a tax on CO2? That is what the motion for a resolution says. How, then, can the rapporteur from the Left say that this is free imagination and false news? I have it from the motion for a resolution. So my question is very simple: is the Left in favour of tax increases at EU level while one is against it in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205242	No, the Left is not in favour of tax increases, and the budget we have adopted here means that the room for manoeuvre with which we have to play in this Parliament will be greater than was expected, because our overall contribution to the European Union will not be as high as it was expected. It is clear that when you take it for seven-year periods, there will be an increase. It's all there is. Prices are rising, so there will be an increase in kroner and ear. However, there are no tax increases. I simply do not think that speaking time will allow me to have Mr Beyer de Ryke's speech. Alex Ahrendtsen to understand it, but it may be that in the coming years, when we have the pleasure of sitting together in committee, we can come to some common understanding of what is up and down so that we can discuss on a factual basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205327	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205329	I'm really sorry, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen didn't do that neonshow. I really think it could have lifted the mood if Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen had performed with it. Can we have it another time? Until we get it, I just want to hear: how can what is not a tax and is not a tax? What is it that makes the EU get more money? And is it some money that has been established in advance in an agreement on the budget that each country pays it and that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205412	In fact, I do not think that the Rules of Procedure allow me to bend things in the neon, and I am not sure I would be able to find out either. In short, however, we have to pay a budget to the European Union distributed among the 27 Member States of the European Union, and it has a size that we have agreed on. The issue of non-recycled plastics is therefore exclusively about how we distribute it between us, so that the countries that are skilled in recycling plastic will be freed from a slightly smaller contribution than they would otherwise have had to pay, and the countries that are not so good at it will have to pay a slightly larger contribution. But the total cake isn't gonna get bigger or smaller as a result of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205450	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205453	No, I don't think anyone has claimed that it got bigger or smaller. But that does not change whether it is a tax or not. That does not change the exact fact that it is different from one country to another and that it can change. That is exactly what makes it an income that has not been established in the context of a debate on what the budget is. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205518	So, it's an income that's included in the total pool of what's to be paid. So it is true that if countries are really, really bad at recycling plastics, a little less will be charged as bni contributions, whereas if countries are really good at recycling plastics, more will be charged in bni contributions. But our quota, if I may say so, to the European Union is the same, whether it is adopted here or not. It's all about promoting the environment, promoting the recycling of plastics, which I actually thought Enhedslisten thought was a good thing. But that is where I have to revise my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205557	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223205628	With this resolution, the march towards political union has really begun. Step by step, the Union's revenue will be increased, in this case to finance the huge recovery package of 750 billion. Euros, which are mostly of benefit to the already southern European countries. In its wisdom, the European Council has decided to introduce a levy on non-recyclable plastics. It must be confirmed in the parliaments of the individual Member States, and that is why we have it in this Chamber. I shall not bore the House with what revenue the Union already has today, but only two thirds of its revenue comes from the Member's contribution, others from own resources. But the plans go beyond that. In the first half of 2021, and there I would just like to refer to the motion for a resolution, and this is aimed in particular at the rapporteur of the Left, the European Union will propose a tax on CO2 There are also plans for air and sea taxes and charges on financial transactions, which will include: say stock trading. It is not free imagination or false news, as the rapporteur of the Left was so arrogant to claim from the platform, and he would not even answer quite simple questions based on the motion for a resolution. However, I would like to admit that these proposals, which the European Union is planning, require agreement among the Member States, but I am surprised if there is no compromise, so that the Left will say yes to more charges, contrary to their view in Denmark. Then there is also the small curl that if this revenue for the Union is not enough to pay off on the huge recovery package, the Member States will pay more, and that is what the jubilee Europeans are today saying yes to, including the Left. I was very excited to hear what among other things. The Left would say to this motion for a resolution, precisely because the party is opposed to tax increases. The rapporteur from the Left had no answer to that when he stood here on the platform. Because the truth is that the taxes have to pay for the huge recovery package. They are called temporary until 2058. Don't you think they're gonna be permanent? So what is going to happen is that the Danish employees' restraint and the normal healthy household in the state and municipality must finance over-consumption and slendrian in southern Europe. It can't keep going. The Union will eventually break over. It has to be pointed out that the economies of northern Europe with the Nordic countries, the Netherlands and Germany have low EMU debts, while countries such as Greece, Italy, Spain, France, Portugal and Cyprus all have EMU debts of between 100 and 180 per cent. of bnp. It can't keep going. While in Denmark, due to the sound economic policy of the majority of the VOK in the 00s, we reduced the debt and managed the state finances, debt and in some places corruption continue in those countries that have not so far had the will to clean up their state finances. This resolution cannot be accepted by the Danish People's Party at all. We're going to vote no. And I still need to get an explanation as to why the Left is in favour of new taxes, the possibility that the Danish contribution to the European Union will be increased when, at the same time, in Denmark, in this Chamber, we have said that we do not want to be involved in tax increases. It seems that the whole thing runs in different directions, and then you can be quite as arrogant as the rapporteur of the Left was. The fact is that you have no answer because you are completely blinded by your jubilee-optimistic EU position. The Danish People's Party will vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223210119	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then the next rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223210141	Thank you. I have promised to say a few words for our EU rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot be in the Chamber this evening, in relation to this proposal, which is, of course, about ratifying the agreement on a new legal basis for the EU budget and the recovery instrument agreed at the EU summit in December. With the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic into Europe a year ago, the lives of Europeans were turned upside down. The whole of Europe is currently experiencing decommissioning, and some countries are even on the verge of the third decommissioning. The Covid-19 pandemic has left deep marks in the European economy. Too many people have lost jobs and all the countries of the European Union are hard hit by company closures, declining growth and rising unemployment. After all, our economies are closely linked in the European Union. This is among other things. What brings us all trade and prosperity, which also brings peace across borders and differences, but our close relations also mean that if Italy's economy collapses, the Germans cannot sell their goods to Italy. If Germany's economy goes into slow motion, yes, then we cannot sell our goods to the Germans, and it may end up costing a lot of jobs in Denmark. So we are in a new situation that requires new tools. With the European Union's recovery facility, which we saw entering today, we have an historic opportunity to draw the European Union in a united and green direction, thus getting out of the crisis well. I do not want to hide the fact that one of the sources of funding that we hope will be able to play in the longer term is a European financial tax. We would like that in the SF, and we also hope that the government will, at least at some point, engage constructively in the work which now seems to be getting up and running again. If we spend the money in the recovery facility correctly, we will be able to see in the slightly longer term a boost in the EU's economy of 11⁄2%. It may not sound like much, but everything else equal it will mean a lot to the many people who go from a jobless life to a job. So this is the time to show solidarity and to show that we are looking after our planet for the benefit of the next generations. We must reach out and help those countries that are the hardest hit by covid-19. It is called solidarity, and that is what is needed. So in the SF we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223210415	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223210419	I have full respect for the fact that this is not the rapporteur's normal area, and the rapporteur should just say if it goes beyond that. However, what I was stunned about was when the rapporteur mentioned what the rapporteur called a financial tax, and I would like to know whether what the rapporteur meant by that was a tax on financial transactions. For it was precisely a treasure that was invented to help the poor part of the world and not ourselves, the rich part of the world. In other words, we also want to show solidarity, but we also say that there are some who need solidarity more than others, and that is why I just want to know whether the financial tax that is being talked about by the SF is a financial tax for us or for others.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223210520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223210521	I am not sure I can answer that fully, but I think that we in the SF are very open about how we organise it in a sensible way, so that we both help ourselves, but also help other countries, and that is what this is really about: getting some of those who put very few tax revenues to actually add some revenue. At any rate, I think the important thing about this proposal is that we keep our hands on some jobs in the European Union, because it means a lot to the people who are affected by this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223210556	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur. We're just gonna have to get the liquor off, even though we're all lightning tested and everything before we get in. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Vinther. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223210635	Thank you. I do not know whether it is everyone who remembers it, or perhaps somebody has forgotten what it was like once, but I remember it: the second Europe that was before the fall of the Wall and before peaceful trade between north and south and east and west, and it can be difficult to remember when one stands on a relatively peaceful and economic spot in history that we stand on now. Europe, like the rest of the world, is probably plagued by pandemics and economic inertia, but Europe is prepared to respond and has put an economic leap blanket under the economy, a recovery plan for the whole of Europe that offers Denmark new opportunities that will give Europe new opportunities and that would not have been possible without the Community. Denmark's way out of the crisis depends entirely on whether the other countries also get through in good health as well as economically. It can be difficult to remember the time before when one is standing here in a period of historical prosperity created by peaceful and free trade. Then it is easy to forget how the border barriers once created endless queues of our trucks and where a maze of trade barriers made goods more expensive for consumers and how strong customs documents made trade a game of bureaucratic Tetris. If you have forgotten, you can look at the North Sea and see what it looks like in Britain and the situation around the borders there. Perhaps someone remembers it, I remember it myself from the 1980s when I was a little younger: acid rain and forest death in Ruhr, the infinite mountains of coal for Europe's chimneys. Today, Europe is on the way to changing it all out with a common ambition for ever greener energy production, an ambition supported by the budget of the coming years. It is an ambition to make Europe the world leader in renewable energy, where Europe becomes too wind power, what OPEC was for oil production. We're gonna start with that. We would have liked to have gone further and invested even more in research and development, but we are on our way, and Denmark must show the way forward for the rest of Europe. It is good for the climate, it is good for Danish economy and exports. We must have ambitions on behalf of Europe and on behalf of the climate. We need to bring the rear guard, but without allowing the foot-to-footers to set the pace, and Denmark can and must play a crucial role as a lighthouse, as we do with the world's first energy island, a wind island that can be the first of many, which together will be able to supply green power to millions of European power outlets. 'Cause we gotta move on. And that means that we are going to look at the way in which we are already using Community money on agricultural subsidies, as the Court of Auditors has just pointed out, not sufficiently supporting the green transition. The EU budget sets a direction, but, as has already been said, we would have liked to go further, among other things. by investing much more in research and development, for we must continue to stand the distance in competition with China, the United States, South Korea and Japan, it requires all of the united muscles of the European Union. We also need to move forward in relation to the digital switch-over. When the big tech giants play with their muscles, it gives most companies and states sweat on their foreheads, but fortunately the EU is not like most. Here we have started the showdown of the platforms' monopolies on access to goods, customers and information. This also applies to human rights, where Europe has played a role and still has a role to play, first and foremost in our own countries, and here it is disheartening to see developments in Poland, where the rights of women and minorities are written out of national law and where the free press, as in Hungary, is being cut back and must give up. Europe must take the lead in demanding that common values be respected. The European Community is not the answer to everything, but it is the answer to some of the problems that we cannot solve separately and where our destiny threads are tangled together, and we can of course say yes to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223210958	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211001	I just want to know if there is one penny of the money that has been allocated from the recovery facility at this stage, which is tied up on the issue of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211014-2	There is not, no, but it is also the overall framework of seven years to come that we are looking at. So it is, after all, about Europe's overall economic muscles and what we can do with the money we spend in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211023	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211024	I don't think I understood the answer. So, the rapporteur mentioned a whole lot about human rights and the rule of law and things like that, and now you come up with a gigantic amount of money that you pump out. So I just ask calmly: is it bound up with compliance with the rule of law? Surely it must be possible to answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211049	I'm sure it is. I am also sure that when we look at what we want to do with Europe, it is about the ambitions we have together; it is about not least the green transition. I think that when we look a few years ahead, we will look at this plan and say that it was the best thing that had happened for Europe for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211106	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211124	Thank you. The proposal we are discussing here today, of course, has a concrete starting point, and it is part of a concrete context, but behind it there is a major fundamental discussion: do we want the European Union to develop into an ever closer Union, where decisive decisions are taken at EU level and then carried out in the Member States, or do we want European cooperation, where individual countries delegate decision-making rights and the economy to European cooperation? It goes without saying that the more revenue the EU gets directly into the box and the less weight the countries' quota represents, the more self-propelled the EU becomes and the less the EU depends on the Member States. I can at least confirm from my own time in the European Parliament that some of the only things that have dampened the most integrationist have been to convince the countries to grant the money. On the other hand, it is obvious that the more own resources the EU has bypasses the countries, the less that limitation will be. The proposal before us not only introduces a plastic packaging tax from which a fixed contribution is made to the EU, but also provides for an increase in the EU's own resources in a number of other areas on a CO2 border adjustment mechanism, a digital tax to be introduced on 1 January 2023, and more is in the pipeline, as has already been mentioned. For reasons of principle, therefore, the Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal. If the European Union is to spend money, it must be financed through the quota agreed between the Member States. It is the Member States' only real control over how the European Union develops. This does not mean, of course, that we are opposed to a plastic charge or, for that matter, that we are opposed to a tax on financial transactions on the contrary, but we are opposed to it constituting a future EU income. It can be included in each country's budgets and then it can be paid from there via the quota agreed on in relation to the European Union. The increase in own resources for the European Union has been attempted by the fact that the money should go for a good purpose: the recovery fund after the corona crisis. It is a noble purpose that we support. Of course we must help the people of the countries most affected by the corona crisis. We also call that solidarity in the Enhedslisten, as in the SF. However, it is all the more incomprehensible that this recovery aid is not based on how hard a country is hit by the corona crisis. All 70 percent. of the aid is distributed on the basis of ratios from before the corona crisis broke out. On the whole, there are many problems with the recovery fund. It does not exclude climate-damaging companies from getting help • absurdly green and helping climate-damaging companies. It leads to increased centralisation in Brussels. It brings huge debts up to 2058, which puts pressure on the whole of the European Union and the EU countries to raise revenue in addition to the national contributions that a number of countries will have difficulty paying. And it does not rule out the use of aid to force welfare degradation in the recipient countries. Remember the European semester under which, in 63 cases from 2011, it was recommended that countries make deteriorations and cuts in health care. Is that what Europe needed, that is, cuts in health care? Is that what the corona crisis has shown, that is, we have needed cuts in health care? But that is what has been recommended. Finally, this mechanism is not bound up with respect to fundamental principles of the rule of law. Countries will be able to discriminate against minorities; countries will be able to dismantle the rule of law; countries will be able to politicise the courts, as is currently the case, at the same time as the funds are flowing from the EU fund. Moreover, it does not exclude companies in tax havens from receiving money from the fund. But where would the money for recovery come from? Sorry, we don't think it's hard to identify where they're supposed to come from. Agricultural aid is an obvious example. The Structural Funds, where there is a huge decline, are another example. And then, of course, we could start to close tax holes in the European Union. Yesterday, a new tax havens list was adopted in which Barbados was removed. Barbados, the last of the 15 worst tax havens, is now away from the EU's tax havens. It is a tax havens list which does not close off tax havens at all. There would otherwise be a lot of money that could be used as revenue to cover some of the expenditure we cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211651	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211654	I just want to ask if that means that the Enhedslisten will not be involved in spending the money from the Recovery Fund. Now the Enhedslisten has at least spent a very long time ripping it down and talking about all the concerns and all the wrong things about it, but does it mean that Enhedslisten will not spend any of the money that actually comes from the Recovery Fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211722	So, Denmark has been involved in paying a quota to the EU, and Denmark has committed itself to a debt in relation to the recovery fund, so of course we will be involved in spending that money. However, when we had the discussion about where the money was to come from, we suggested some other places. And quite right now we can say that there was an opportunity to do something about tax havens, but unfortunately the opposite has been done. The last of the 15 worst tax havens has been removed from the EU tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211753	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211754	I think it is a bit strange that you actually want to help spend the money, but that you do not want to support a recovery fund. I think that is only contradictory, but that is what we have got in place today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211813	It is incomprehensible that it is a contradiction to say that when Denmark has undertaken to borrow that money and to pay it back, then we must also spend the money. I think that is very logical. Well, it's not the case that Enhedslisten can say that we don't want to be involved in paying back on the loan we've taken up how would that happen? So when we are going to help pay the money back, for example. When we make finance agreements with the government and with the SF, we will of course also help to say how the money is to be spent; that goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211852	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Egil Hulgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223211909	I have also been allowed to stand here on behalf of our normal rapporteur, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. This summer, on the part of the Conservative People's Party, we gave the government a mandate to negotiate, on behalf of Denmark, the EU's 7-year budget and the related recovery plan. We need a well-functioning European market. We cannot afford in Denmark that the EU's internal market does not work. Our mandate was then bound up with a desire for Denmark to have clarity about how much Denmark had to pay, and an earmarking of investments in and subsidies for the green conversion, also for the sake of our exports. Against this background, we are satisfied with the result that has been achieved. Normally, such a ratification process will have to take place over the next year and a half. We don't have that time in this case. The 750 billion. The euro in the Recovery Fund is dependent on countries having ratified the current budget and the recovery plan. That is why we are pleased that this treatment comes so early that Denmark can ratify in good time. I would just like to reiterate one thing that we also expressed at that time, and as the Socialist rapporteur also said, namely that taxation is a national matter. So the fact that we are voting in favour of ratification here in the Folketing or expressing that we are positive is not the same as the fact that at the same time we have nodded to the fact that the three areas that have been discussed in the past, namely that of a digital tax, a CO2 we are vertically opposed to the EU being able to collect taxes itself. With these comments, however, we in the Conservatives are in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212114	Thank you. There is just one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212119	That's the last thing I noticed. The rapporteur said that the Conservative People's Party is opposed to the EU having own resources. Already, one third of the EU's revenue is own resources, and today a majority is saying yes to yet another own resource, namely plastic tax, which cannot be recycled. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212145	If I said it like that, I said it wrong. We are opposed to the EU being able to levy taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212150	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212152	So we are in favour of the EU levying taxes, but we are opposed to the EU levying taxes. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212207	We allow ourselves to have a balanced relationship with what kind of revenue the European Union can have. There may be own resources. There's, like, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen also says here, also an own resource in the form of payment for non-recycled plastic, which lies in this agreement that we are nodding in the same rebirth that we are nodding into the EU budget. So we are concerned about the EU's own resources, but we are not vertically opposed, but we are against if the EU can levy taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212247	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212302	Thank you for the floor. This motion for a resolution is crucial for the system of collection of the EU's own resources. At the same time, this is a prerequisite for the Commission's authorization to borrow up to 750 billion. EUR to finance the European Union's recovery instrument. In new citizens, we proposed that today's resolution should be subject to an indicative referendum. The aim was to stop the historic increase in Denmark's payments to the EU or, at least, to ensure that the people were consulted. Denmark's contribution to the EU is increased by 4.6 billion. kr. a year. The Danish contribution increases to approx. 24.3 billion kr. annual, which is as much as 23 per cent. extra each year. The worst thing, however, is that this resolution gives the European Union the right to borrow on behalf of the Member States. This is another step towards the dismantling of Europe's nation states. It is another step towards centralising the power of the EU's non-elected bureaucrats. We are talking about no less than 750 billion. EUR 5 600 billion, equivalent to EUR 5 600 billion. kr., and the Danes will be bound for it. With today's resolution, the European Union is also taking a step towards the collection of direct taxes. It is decided that in the coming years the European Union will work towards reforming the own resources system and introducing new resources. The supporters will argue that, with this ratification, the European Union will not have the right to levy direct taxes, but in New Citizens, our common sense tells us, however, that the right to levy direct taxes is the whole purpose of the exercise. The agreement thus allows the Commission to prepare its work. None of these gifts of money, however, in the form of the recovery instrument, will solve the economic problems of the countries of southern Europe. Those problems started long before corona. For example, Italy's problems in the euro, an inflexible labour market, inefficient bureaucracy, complex tax rules, early retirement and black economy. It is of course welcome to believe that Italian politicians suddenly find political will and stability, for example. The will to tell their people that their retirement age must now be the same as in Denmark, but common sense suggests that the will to reform a country's economy will not increase when you can count on a payment of huge sums of euro, but it has never been intended to solve the problems from the bottom up for the European Union either. The aim is even more the European Union, and the means is to pay off for goodwill on the part of European peoples, especially the people of Italy, who have become increasingly critical of the European Union, especially after the disastrous crisis management of the European Union during the migrant crisis and most recently during the fight against the pandemic. The payment for the Commission and the President of the Commission to tackle European challenges, the Danes face the world's highest taxes. The reform of the EU's own resources system will eventually become a requirement for a right for the EU to levy taxes, and with the levying of taxes there will be increased demands for the transfer of financial powers to the EU, and those sitting on the cash register will decide. The European Union is a false Europe; the European Union is a misconception. The real Europe is not governed by Brussels; the real Europe is decentralized. The EU's massive increase in the EU's competences and size is a hold of power and Corona was the pretext. In a few years' time, we will all be able to see for ourselves that the fundamental problems of the economies of certain Member States have not been resolved despite the efforts of the Danes for the European Union. New citizens cannot, of course, support a proposal which does not bat, but which simply makes the Danes poorer. We cannot therefore support motion for a resolution B 135.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212721	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and since I do not see any more rapporteurs who would like to speak, it is the Finance Minister. Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223212757	The Government's motion for a resolution on the EU own resources system is part of the overall agreement on the EU multi-annual financial framework for 2021-27. That is what is also, said with a smile on your lip, the mouth is called the MFF. The overall agreement has come into effect after long and tough negotiations over almost 21⁄2 years. As you know, this summer it culminated in four days of almost continuous negotiations between the Heads of Government of the European Union. It is therefore also a compromise which has been exceptionally difficult to achieve. When you look at what the MFF means, you understand why it has been so difficult negotiations. For the MFF helps to define the EU's priorities, not for one year, as we would typically do in Denmark when we make a financial law, but for the next seven years. This is a future in which we cannot close our eyes to the common challenges we face and which requires not only national but also pan-European responses. This applies, for example, to the challenges we face with migration, the climate and the need to support our future prosperity and development through research and development programmes across the EU. The MFF should help to support this. At the same time, Britain's withdrawal from the EU left a major financial gap in the EU budget, which we also had to deal with. That didn't make the negotiations any easier. In addition, at the beginning of 2020, the Coronapandemic hit us a health crisis which has also developed into a historic economic crisis. It is an economic crisis which has been a major blow to European economies and which has hit all countries without exception. Some have been hit harder than others, but all have been hit. That dimension should also be addressed in the MFF negotiations. It can therefore be said that the circumstances for reaching an agreement were particularly difficult this time. There was a lot at stake, which is why it was important where we ended up. All the more so, I think there is reason to be satisfied with the agreement negotiated by the government on the basis of the parliamentary mandate with the European countries. However, although the agreement is not perfect, it is one that ensures that the climate is now at the forefront. In future, 30% will be needed. of the EU's spending goes to climate purposes. Before, it was 20 percent. In concrete terms, this means that there are more than 4 000 billion. kr. to finance climate objectives in the MFF and in the EU recovery plan and, as a whole, a new green source of income is also being introduced to provide incentives for Member States to reduce the amount of non-recyclable plastic waste. That makes sense. This helps to make the EU greener. And it is absolutely crucial that the European Union takes the lead in the climate agenda. Therefore, it is also an important result that the green transition is a priority in the MFF and that we use the whole toolbox, both on the expenditure side and also on the revenue side. Another quite significant result is a historically large Danish EU rebate of 2.7 billion. kr. a year. This means that every year the Danes have to pay 2.7 billion. kr. less to the European Union than we would otherwise have done. Such a large Danish discount contributes to increasing the room for manoeuvre at home, so there is more money for welfare, health and education and also the green initiatives. The Danish rebate is also essential in order to ensure a fairer distribution of the burden between Member States. Because the broadest shoulders must carry the heaviest burdens, but there must also be reasonableness in things. Another striking Danish impression is that the share of the EU budget, which goes to what is called modern policies, is increasing significantly. This also means that in future we will focus more on areas such as research, migration and digitalisation. This helps to equip the European Union not only to be stronger in a European context but in a global context. Does this mean that everything we would like is with the EU budget? No, but it's a big step in the right direction. On the other hand, the share of the EU budget, which goes to more traditional areas such as agriculture and structural funds, falls from 70% in the past. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. In other words, the agreement shows that the focus is now more on green and growth-promoting areas; areas that can be characterised as some that also contribute to the EU becoming stronger in a global context and in the competition we face in relation to the rest of the world countries. The MFF also established a recovery instrument of 750 billion. The aim of the euro is to help the Member States through the covid-19 crisis. With this instrument, we are helping to restore Europe's economies in solidarity, which at the same time also supports a green and digital transition, so that we help those EU countries that have the greatest problems, and we are also helping everyone to become more green and more digitised for the benefit of our countries. So when we come out on the other side of the covid-19 crisis, it is a situation in which we have used the crisis wisely to strengthen our community and strengthen individual countries. During this crisis, both in Denmark and in the European Union, we are pursuing an active financial policy with targeted aid packages and investments, and this is crucial for bringing the European economy back on its feet after the Coronapandemic. And with the recovery instrument, payments and funds are linked to demands for measures that strengthen the economies of the countries and their resilience, and that have a significant focus on contributing to the green transition and digitalisation. This must help to ensure that the money is spent sensibly and in areas that can bring us stronger through the crisis. It is no secret that the government in the negotiations was, and still is, extremely sceptical about direct subsidies financed by the Community. That is why we worked hard in the negotiations for the funds to be made available as loans on favourable terms. And the government's efforts in the negotiations must be said to have borne fruit. We had reduced the share of direct grants from 500 billion. EUR 390 billion proposed by the Commission. EUR 110 billion. euro. And last but not least, it introduced, among other things. as a result of a Danish effort something new with the MFF agreement on the rule of law mechanism. In the future, therefore, a link will be established between the rule of law and the EU budget. It should not be free for the Member States to break the rule of law; a mechanism that Transparency International has called a historic breakthrough. This is an important step in the right direction. In other words, the government has, in my opinion, delivered on the agreement and in full accordance with the mandate given us by a majority of this Parliament in its time; an agreement that looks forward and prioritises areas such as climate, digitalisation, research, health and efforts relating to migration. It is an agreement that is solidarity and that supports the necessary steps to help restore the European economies, and it is an agreement that is of enormous importance for the internal market, which is Denmark's most important export market. With the government's resolution to ratify the EU's own resources system, we can put a final end to the MFF negotiations. The scheme, which implements the revenue side of the EU budget, is inter alia: a prerequisite for the historically large Danish EU rebate and the implementation of EU recovery funds. And I hope that the parties of the Folketing will support the motion for a resolution and look forward to any questions that may arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223213715	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223213719	Thank you. Sir. In his rapporteur's speech, Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left used free imagination and false news about the EU opponents' assessment of these own resources, and then I wondered whether he had even read the resolution. And then I thought it might be a good idea that it was a finance minister who confirmed the following, namely that it is a plastic tax that cannot be recycled, which we are saying yes to today, and that the European Union is planning to introduce a tax on CO2 There are also plans for air and sea taxes and charges on financial transactions. I would just like to ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that this is the way it is and that the motion for a resolution is not fantasy when it appears in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223213824	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223213826	In other words, I can start by confirming that the motion for a resolution is not a fantasy. It is therefore very serious that the mandate that the government is asking for Denmark to help us get an EU budget for the next seven years, that we can contribute to the recovery of European economies, that we can put a number of important things in place and get started, including here in Denmark, among other things. with a number of the agreements we made in connection with the Finance Act. I can also say very clearly that it is up to each EU country to collect taxes and it is not up to the EU to do so. I think it makes sense for us, when we look at the EU budget, to think green and that the countries that are good at it and that is what is expressed with the part that concerns whether you are good at dealing with non-recyclable plastics, so that the countries that have a green approach to it get a slightly smaller bill and that the countries that are not good at it get a slightly higher bill. It is not a fantasy, it is to do something good for our common environment, and it seems to the government to be very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223213946	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223213948	Thank you. Denmark's membership contribution to the EU is historically high despite discounts: 24 billion. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that if all these measures planned by the European Union, i.e. taxes designed to increase own resources and to finance the recovery package, do not go far enough if they fail, then Denmark undertakes to increase its membership contribution. That is also stated in the motion for a resolution. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214023-2	But it is the case that the expenditure agreed between the Member States must also be financed, and there is nothing new about that. And in this sense, the European Union has been given the task of making proposals for own resources. We have not taken a position on whether the concrete proposals that the European Union may make are some that we in Denmark can support. And when I have heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say in the past that it has almost concluded in advance that these things will be implemented, I have to say that this is not correct. The European Union will make proposals and then the Member States will assess whether it is sensible to go that way or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214109	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214111	Thank you. Now it seemed as if the SF's rapporteur almost thought it was a bit immoral that the Enhedslisten would use from a recovery fund that we ourselves had not voted for, because we wanted the recovery fund to be organised in a different way. And I would just like to ask whether the Minister can confirm that in all future financial law negotiations, where a financial law is agreed upon, those who are behind the Finance Act will both be obliged to contribute to the EU budget, which is huge despite the rebate, that is to say, the increase goes a long way beyond the rebate and will also be obliged, when the time comes, to pay back in relation to the recovery package. Can the Minister not confirm this so that possibly bad blood between future financial law partners can disappear here immediately?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214211	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214213	If I can help in this Chamber to bring peace and happiness to the parliamentary basis of the government, I will certainly be pleased about that. Incidentally, I am not going to interfere with the discussions between the SF and the Enhedslisten, but I just want to say that when we have financial law negotiations, it is clear that it is also included in them, in the overall budget, what Denmark is contributing to the European Union. It is also part of the story that some of the money we jointly, together with the Enhedslisten, set aside for green initiatives and thank you for a good cooperation. After all, some of the money we have at our disposal is because we have the recovery funds from the European Union. I heard a little discussion between Enhedslisten and SF so that SF asked Enhedslisten if, when you were against the funding that was here, you could go in for spending the money anyway. I will leave that discussion entirely and safely to the two parties, but I would just like to say that we have more than 11 billion with the recovery funds. DKK, which we can not least spend on green initiatives and digitalisation, has been of great benefit to the Danish economy and the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214330	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214331	Yes, and it is money that has to be paid back, and the parties included in the Finance Act also help to pay them back. And I am glad that the Minister confirms that, because that is the way it is. Then I would like to hear from the Minister one thing in relation to the rule of law mechanism. I don't quite know when that quote from Transparency International was from... I think we're gonna have to check if it was when it was finally finished. However, I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm here too that none of the money so far allocated to the countries from the recovery facility will be affected by issues of the rule of law at all. Hungary can continue to suppress its press and its courts, without having any impact on the money it has been given and which is currently flowing to Hungary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214421	It is the case that, with the rule of law mechanism that is part of the agreed mechanism, we have the opportunity to use that instrument, both in terms of payments from the EU budget, but also from the recovery funds, if it is considered appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214442	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214443	Thank you for the floor. I came to flash a little, that we in the SF are quite preoccupied with a financial tax, so I really just want to ask the Minister if the government has any plans to enter into that discussion and try to help ensure that we get such a financial tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214505	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214506	But we are following the work that is going on with great interest and, of course, when there is a concrete proposal, the government will take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214516	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214517	I would like the government to be a little more active on this and to be much more involved in that debate. I think that, after all, this is something that the Minister's party has at least been very concerned about in election campaigns and so on. So is that something the Minister wants to take up on his own?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214537	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214538	After all, this is an ongoing debate in the European Union, and we, as a government, are concerned that everyone should pay the tax they have to pay, as well as the big tech giants. And it is not a secret that there is also at present. negotiations are under way between the EU and, inter alia, the United States. U.S.A., looking at some of these issues. I think it is very sensible if you can see it all together in the European Union in relation to a global reality too, and if that is not possible, then you have to look at what you can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214618	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Finance. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214644	The debate is open and the first to speak is the rapporteur from the Socialist Group, Mrs Birgitte Vind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214655	Thank you for the floor. Denmark has a great many strengths, and the time with corona has shown us that Denmark's high degree of digitisation is a great strength. In Denmark, when it comes to the use of digital infrastructure by citizens and authorities, we have come a very long way. We all know NemID, and the Danes have become familiar with it. NemID and the way we identify digitally seem secure for most of us, and the Danes' trust and knowledge of NemID is great. However, the digital infrastructure is also critical infrastructure and, above all, the supervision and responsibility for citizens' personal and private data must be exercised with the utmost care. The digital infrastructure is one of the areas that requires constant development and maintenance, and now is the time to develop the new NemID that we know. Trust in public digital solutions must also be strong in 10 years and 20 years and 30 years. In 2021 and 2022, the new contracts with the current suppliers of the NemID solution and NemLog-in expire, and we are now facing phase-in of the next generation of critical digital infrastructure in Denmark. It is and must be a task of state authorities to ensure open and equal access for all citizens and to ensure the efficient and secure operation of the public digital infrastructure. This bill aims to ensure the future organisation of this authority's task. With total government ownership and data responsibility for the new MitID solution and NemLog-in, these key solutions with this bill will be able to be updated continuously and effectively. This is necessary in line with technological developments and, above all, in relation to the changing digital threat picture. The digitalisation agency will be given the task of making the MitID solution and the NemLog-in solution available to citizens, authorities and businesses in the future. MitID will be the national identity guarantee for digital identities for individuals, and NemLog-in will be the national identity guarantee for digital identities for business users. The transition to the new solutions is designed to give users as little trouble as possible. The biggest noticeable difference for many Danes will be that they should wave goodbye to the physical key cards and say hello to the MitID app • a change that will increase security and reduce the possibility of abuse. The conversion to the new IT solutions has been long underway and will be rolled out during 2021 and 2022. In the social democracy we can support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214934	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. So we move on to the Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223214958	Thank you for the floor. Denmark is a digital pioneer country, and our digital self-service solutions today replace a number of public tasks that previously could only be handled through manual processing and physical meetings. Therefore, it is essential that we develop and ensure identification solutions for citizens, which are a prerequisite for digital management. We therefore support the bill, which offers many good opportunities for us to continue to ensure the digital security of Danes and to maintain our high digital level. We are glad to see that in the Left. The purpose of the law is to create the right framework for the next generation of NemID and NemLog-in, which will be replaced by MitID and an expanded version of NemLog-in. The proposal benefits citizens, our digital society and indeed also the climate, as we reduce paper consumption and transport. The proposal therefore contains a great many good things, but there are also some things we need to be aware of in the debate. Firstly, it is important that we safeguard digital security so that the data is processed in accordance with the Data Protection Regulation and we ensure the best framework for digital security. I have also noted from the hearings that there is a great deal of concern about whether, in particular, the elderly and digitally weak and disabled are left behind during the transition period. There are a lot of Danes who still use the physical key card or have only just got used to using the key card via an app. Therefore, user-friendliness, user involvement and ongoing testing are important, so there is a close and supportive process during the transition phase. This will require both financial and human resources, but it is necessary to ensure adequate security during the transition phase. So that's some of what we need to follow up on. I look forward to discussing it and much more in the further reading of the committee. On the basis of the many good opportunities offered by the proposal to create digital transformation and security, we agree with the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223215205	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223215216	Thank you. This bill lays the foundations for a new system to replace the current NemID. There is an obvious need, as there are more and more cases of fraud with the current system. And although minor adjustments have been made, there is still an uncertainty about the system as described among others. of the DR in an article of 8 February. Therefore, there is good reason to establish a new system, also in order to ensure the maintenance of confidence in digital systems. In the context of a new system, it is, of course, essential that it be drawn up and established with the citizen at the heart. In this context, there are groups of citizens that need special consideration or that require special action. This is, of course, partly the group which today is exempt from using digital solutions and which will continue to be exempted from this bill. The challenge for them will be that there should be easy access to allow a specific citizen to represent them and, of course, also an easy option to withdraw the authorisation. It is also essential that municipal citizens' services can provide this group, which, for various reasons, cannot use the digital systems • it can be older, younger, people with disabilities • the help and assistance they need. It is also a challenge today. We know it, but I just want to maintain that it must also be a focus when we have new digital systems. Then, of course, it is a fundamental requirement that a new system should be easy and understandable to use. Of course, it must also be a requirement that accessibility for people with disabilities is thought into it. And I do not see that it is quite clear in the draft law; I note that the Digitalisation Board in the main note states that it is regulated in advance that accessibility for people with disabilities should be thought into it. Since this is part of the plan, I don't think it's a big problem to reassure me, disability organisations and others that it'll be thought into the system just so we're 200 percent. ensure that it is not forgotten in the process. Finally, the safety of the new system must, of course, be at its top. The use of digital identity is being used as access in more and more contexts. And I think that there are many who of course think it is smart and convenient and simple to use, so we should not run around and remember too many codes, but the more it is used, the more vulnerable it is if security fails. Now I have a picture of the focus, but it's just to mention that it's, of course, at the heart of this process. I expect that we can get some good answers on how to take account of all groups of users in the new system and that users who do not need to use the system are also taken into account. And then I hope that the Danish People's Party will be able to vote in favour of the bill when we reach the third reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223215452	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223215510	Thank you. After all, this bill is about replacing the NemID that we all know so well with a new identification system, MitID, which will then create this new version of NemLog-in, which is used to log on to most public sector solutions. With MitID, the Digitalisation Authority also takes the solution and assumes the authority's responsibility for providing the solution. Denmark is one of the leading countries in the world when it comes to digitisation. It is a good thing that there are many advantages to it, but it also requires that we also have a close eye on how we deal with citizens' information, especially when it comes to a critical infrastructure, which we are talking about here, and when it comes to solutions such as this one, which we from the centre make mandatory for citizens to use. You don't really have a choice. I mean, here I am. see that the Department of Human Rights, Danish Disability Organisations and the Data Protection Agency have raised a number of questions about data protection itself in their consultation responses. This is something that I will be asking for a little more detail beyond what is stated in the consultation note. So that also means that there are some questions on the way to the Minister. Then I would say that with the old NemID we have witnessed a number of cases where it has been abused, and also cases where, unfortunately, the citizens who have then been subjected to this abuse have not been very well placed afterwards. The fact is that if our credit cards are misused, it is the bank that covers the costs, but that is not the case when NemID is exposed to fraud. Then it is the citizen himself who is liable for the costs associated with it, and I think that is some liability rules that we should look at in connection with this proposal. I just didn't manage to figure out how the citizen is doing with this MitID. So that is also something we will have to ask during the committee procedure, and it may also be that the Minister has an answer to it when he goes to the platform here later. Then it has also emerged that the Digitalisation Authority has, in a sense, known about a number of cases of abuse of NemID without taking action and doing anything about it. I think that has been a huge problem. I think it is important that, when you have such a solution as this one, which you require citizens to use, we also need to have a high degree of transparency. It must be made clear what is of known problems and known risks of abuse with such a solution, so that citizens can deal with it and can keep up with the risks involved. So this is also something that we will be working on in committee and can well imagine making amendments for. Indeed, it is essential that the degree of transparency is high. So we expect to be able to support this bill, but we also have a number of obs-points that I have mentioned in my speech, and this is going to raise a number of issues that we are dealing with in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223215826	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. May I ask the rapporteur just to prepare for the next one. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Olldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223215850	In the Radical Left we have always advocated and warmly supported the digitalisation of public Denmark. Of course, we also do so in this context, where we upgrade our NemID system to MitID. It will also continue to be the case that we have great confidence that in general the legislation will take care of vulnerable and vulnerable groups, and that due account will also be taken of the GDPR. That is why we are also looking forward to answering some of the questions which we also know will arise in committee. We also believe that, in fact, a lot of appropriate answers have already been given to many of the questions that it is entirely appropriate to ask in this context. But summa summarum: We also support the digitalisation of public Denmark this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223215948	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bruno Jerup of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223220004	Thank you for the floor. Perhaps I could say that I agree in many respects with the two previous speakers on this issue. I also expect that we will be able to vote in favour of this. But, of course, there are some problems. Some of them have been mentioned. I think that one of the most important things is the problem of transition. One might say that this is a bit of a bottom-up task, since the agreement on NemID expires and we just have to come up with something else. I note, however, that nothing has been really made up of anything else, because, as I see it, the company that has been formed to continue this is, in other words, a partnership of public groups and then the same company, Nets DanID A/S. So it's kind of a continuation with the same company, which then has to develop this product for MitID and then NemLog-in. What may, of course, be the problem, although one might think that technology and technology development are almost in place, is that we have some historical experience that when you have such new IT projects and IT solutions that need to be put in place, you can run into challenges that may be larger or smaller and, as I see it now, the concrete solutions have not yet been developed. This is something that must be developed only after this bill has been adopted so that it can enter into force. So this is certainly a task on which we need to focus a little. I also notice the transition where you walk away from key cards and where you have to have such an app instead. However, the comments state that it will still be possible to use a physical electronic means of identification to replace the key card. That is to say, it is just a comment. I cannot read whether this means that it is a general possibility which can, in principle, continue for everyone. It doesn't say what kind of physical identification option you're supposed to have. If it is not to be the key card, what kind of thing is it that is in the pipeline there? But what's interesting and it's certainly something that might be nice to get a little more detailed is how we get this transition done. Because what we have been through is that we have actually succeeded in getting very far with NemID and that it is used massively throughout our communication within the welfare society in all sorts of shades, health care, tax and you name it. It is clear that if this is to be a good thing, it is important that we can actually continue the great popular support for that digitalisation. And, of course, we need to be aware of whether we are running into some problems. So, overall, there are a number of problems which were also mentioned by Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt and which I will not repeat. But, of course, we would also like to hear the reply from the Minister when we get it to the committee. But we look forward to this being something that we will eventually be able to vote in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223220331	There are no brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur. Then we will leave room for Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223220350	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Don't you guys just know the thing about going and looking forward to something new, and at the same time you're afraid of all the trouble that comes with it? That's the way it is every time you need a new phone, for example. It makes life easier, you always think ▪ at least once you've figured it all out and what it's all for. It's the same with this bill. It is good to go from NemID to MitID and get a new version of NemLog-in. There are clear advantages, even economic and administrative, for business. In fact, I think that is the first time I have been able to say this about a legislative proposal for the next two years I have been under this government. That is good, and it is important, but we have to go right there and the road is paved with trouble and financial start-up costs; we all know that. That is why it must also be clarified and re-calculated, as among other things. Danish Industry points out in the consultation responses. And then the Digitalisation Authority must be geared to the task of both industry and citizen, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned. In fact, the new infrastructure requires adaptation and there will be a need for increased support, including for example. to the elderly citizens, as the Elders case in the hearing answers points out. Conservatives support the proposal and we look forward to obtaining the real economic overview and the Minister's assessment of when the change will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223220508	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Since there are no rapporteurs from the New Civil or Liberal Alliance, I will give the floor to the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223220528	Thank you. First of all, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for this, I think, very positive reception of the draft law and for the good speeches. Mrs Mona Juul from the Conservative People's Party's image here, finally with the new telephone, which makes life easier, but to which one should get used, I think it actually hits very well. The idea is to let what most Danes know and use, namely NemID, be replaced by MitID and thus create even better solutions. At the same time, it is also clear that when something new is put in place, there is a need to look at whether there are some things, including what we have put forward that can be better or that can be clarified. That is why I also welcome the questions that have been put and look forward to the committee reading, where we can go into more detail on the various issues. However, I would just like to say on the whole that the government is also very concerned about the fact that this gives us the whole idea of something that is more user-friendly, both for citizens and for business, and that, at the same time, there is a very high level of security associated with it, and that we are also aware that there are citizens who may have disabilities, disabilities or for other reasons may find it difficult to use these solutions, and we need to have a special focus on that. As I said, I am pleased that there is support for the proposal which will take us an important step further into a digital future for Denmark. This is done with this proposal with the transition to two new public IT solutions, as I said, a new version of NemLog-in and the completely new solution MitID, which replaces what we know today as NemID. Both infrastructure solutions are an important guarantee of the future of some of the most critical digital infrastructure we have today. Firstly, the draft law means that we strengthen state ownership of IT solutions. This gives us much better opportunities to continuously develop and adapt them, including to the current threat picture than we have had with the previous solutions. The reality is that technological developments are moving rapidly. This is very positive in many contexts. This offers new opportunities for citizens and businesses to benefit from digital solutions. But it is also the case that those who do not want to use digital solutions for anything good, but will try to make cheats, tails and scams, of course also constantly think in new ways. That is why it is important for us here to have a tool that is stronger in dealing with the threats we face. Secondly, with this bill, we have just taken account of the safety of the Danes as a crucial factor. With the bill, we will have a technologically future-proof platform so that users will also be able to use digital self-service solutions in a secure way in the future, and that we will also be able to further strengthen security. Thirdly, the proposal means that we will strengthen citizens' legal certainty when they use common public IT solutions in the future. Indeed, the draft law lays down a number of clear rules on how solutions are to be managed. Last but not least, user-friendliness is paramount. With the bill, we want to ensure a consistent digital cross-sector journey across the public sector to the benefit of both citizens and businesses. The bill also means that private companies will have access to use MitID and NemLog-in, so that they can use MitID for example to safely identify their users or customers, in the same way as we know it today from NemID. All in all, the bill here is therefore an important part of the basis for the digitalisation of Denmark, which we are already far behind and which we must continue to develop. I would therefore also like to acknowledge today the positive comments that have been made. I find that the entire Folketing across parties is deeply concerned about digital development for the benefit of citizens and for the benefit of businesses and has an approach in which everyone is also told that one hopes and believes that one will vote in favour of the proposal, but that in committee we would like to look at specific issues. I welcome that and look forward with the parties here to dive into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223221011	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. No one has asked for the floor, so we thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210223221032	The debate is open. The first speaker is Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223221051	Thank you. Today we are debating draft law amending the law on the re-use of public sector information. After all, in 2005 the Danish Parliament adopted the law on the re-use of public sector information. The aim of the law is to create rules and frameworks for citizens and businesses to use data collected by public authorities commercially and non-commercially. After all, we all have an interest in data being shared and used for the continued development of society. Data collected by the public sector must belong to all of us and must benefit society. The law on the re-use of public sector information has been continually adapted, but in 2017 an evaluation by the European Commission shows that public authorities are not provided with real-time data, which obviously limits the use of data. The legislative proposal we are going to deal with here today aims to implement the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on open data of 20 June 2019. The aim of the directive is precisely to increase the socio-economic potential of public sector information, for example. by making them easily accessible to start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises. The draft law aims to extend the application of the law to public enterprises, and proposes that a single starting point be developed for public data which can display metadata and make them easier to find and apply. In concrete terms, the draft law will mean that public undertakings are defined as undertakings in which public authorities have control, as they hold the majority of the company's subscribed capital, such as: gas, heat, electricity and water plants as well as transport companies and companies extracting gas and coal, etc. Similarly, research data wholly or partly financed by the public sector and carried out by public institutions, but also where private funds are involved, will be covered by the directive. In the Social Democratic Party we note that the Finance Minister, in cooperation with other public authorities, has started preparatory work on developing a national data portal to facilitate the identification and use of public data in Denmark. So all in all, this is, after all, a question of implementing a new directive which should make it even easier for both private and public to use the data that are in society. Social democracy can, of course, support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223221320	No one has asked for short remarks, so I thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223221335	Thank you for the floor. More and more data is coming and there are huge possibilities in data, but it is also important that we have the right framework for how we make them available and how we can use them safely. So that's why we think this is a really, really good bill. We in Denmark generally need to relate to the data and how we make them available, especially in relation to the green switch-over there we have a number of barriers we need to have looked at, and among other things. The use of data is very important there. So this is a really, really good step in the right direction, which we in the Left strongly support. We will, of course, also ask questions in committee about some of the security issues and also about some of the costs involved. In general, however, this is a very good step in the right direction, because we in Denmark need to have common and transparent rules on how we can use all the very, very good data that we, fortunately, as a country, have. So we support and look forward to further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223221445	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223221459	Thank you for that, President. This bill is about implementing an EU directive on the possibility of re-use of public data in the development of new business models for small and medium-sized enterprises, as the open data directive will result in easier access to more European data. It sounds quite appealing. We all know that data can be of great value, and giving companies and researchers access to large data sets can certainly allow us to develop new business models that can make us all richer. So what's the problem? Data sets of high value are described in the bill. Data sets are described in a number of categories such as earth observation, environment, meteorological data, etc. etc. But in addition, the European Commission has the power to add new thematic categories of high value data sets. It also states that the selected datasets must be displayed free of charge across the European countries. At the same time, the data sets shall be machine-readable and accessible via API interfaces and accessible in the form of mass downloads, where applicable. So we do not quite know the task that we are assigning to our research institutions and public companies with this proposal. The answers to the consultation are also marked by the difficulty of clarifying what this law actually has in terms of consequences and costs. The comments on the bill state that the payment may have State financial consequences through derived national expenditures for the adaptation of state IT systems. The proposal will have limited implementation implications for the public sector through derived national expenditure on IT systems adaptation and updating of the public sector digital infrastructure. These are the proposed new requirements for a national access point to public data metadata and the requirements for high value display datasets that may require adaptations to existing digital infrastructure. It is assessed that these implementation consequences can only be further fleshed out once Member States have adopted the detailed requirements for high value datasets through implementing acts. ▪ Here we must also have a guarantee in committee that institutions and public companies will not suddenly have a bill to make data available on the basis of this law. In the Danish People's Party we can also have a concern that the security of personal data is not good enough. It is true that the rules governing personal data continue to apply and apply above this law. However, in the hearing from Aalborg University they write: "Technological and algorithmic development, especially around AI, has made even "innocent" data, in comparison with other data sets, pose a risk. So how can we be sure that that risk will be addressed in the enforcement of the law? Finally, work is under way in the National Archives on the notification and submission of research data, which Danske Universiteter comments, in relation to how they are coordinated with the implementation of this law. To this end, the Digitisation Board agrees that it is a directive that needs to be implemented and that it has a time frame that cannot be changed at national level. You're thinking, "Don't be ridiculous! If it is appropriate to ensure better coordination, then we should not just be blinded by the fact that the European Union has set a deadline. Then we must do what is reasonable and we must ensure that we can go for the right solution. So all in all, there are a lot of good things in this bill, although it comes from an EU directive, but there are also a lot of unresolved issues that we need to deal with before we in the Danish People's Party can decide our position on the bill. We look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223221832	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223221853	With this bill, we are implementing the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on open data and re-use of public sector information, and we are extending the law on the scope of open data and introducing free access to high value public data sets. After all, we know that there is a great deal of value in open data, and more open data has great potential both for the private, but also for the public and for the public and for consumers, because it is some of the things that can help us to create services and products better. That is why we support the SF proposal. At the same time, however, we will also raise a warning flag and say that it is of course important that we safeguard both data security and data protection for citizens, but that citizens can also have confidence that their data is not disclosed for purposes other than those for which it is stated that they can be used. I can see that both the Engineer's Association and the Data Protection Agency have a number of questions in their consultation answer, and that is, of course, something that we will try to address in committee. So we expect to be able to support the proposal, but of course we are also curious about getting the answers to these questions. That will be our approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223222015	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bruno Jerup of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223222037	The Enhedslisten is critical, but as a starting point positive towards the proposal. There are some problems with regard to data security and sensitive data, but what is interesting and important here is the possibility of using more of the data we have, among other things. in the public sector. I know that, if you look at health, there are huge amounts of data, such as: The pharmaceutical industry is of course very interested in getting its hands on, and that is where one of the problems is, because one has that division with that, that as long as it is data transfer within public authorities, it is not considered re-use, but if it goes as it is, one might say, out of the system, then it is re-use. You can see in Section 8 paragraph. 5, that there is an opportunity for the sale of data from the public sector, and it may be said that it is reasonable, but at least it poses some problems, even though it is intended that one should actually be able to sell them above the cost one has by transferring the data so that one actually becomes such a kind of business for the public sector. I do not know whether that is what is intended, but it is a little in the wording there. This also poses the problem that, if you have in hospitals some doctors or some health professionals who do research, as is often the case, they actually use data that are public, but it may be that their research is in fact linked with Novo Nordisk or with another pharmaceutical company, so that there is, like, a link between the pharmaceutical industry and the public health service and then the specific researcher who has the task. And to me, there is something in the game in relation to security, as to who is using what data when, even though I know very well that if there is to be sound research, you have to have some of the billions of data we collect for all our citizens and patients. As I said, there are some problems with how it works with sales and with who it is that sells to whom and where the demarcation is. And there are some problems with data security and sensitive data and also with the distinction between when something is re-use and when something is one, you might say, use within the system. However, with the comments on what we will try to clarify in committee, we have a critical but yet positive approach to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223222344	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223222405	You can be sure that the papers stay on because they're right on top of the liquor here. Thank you for the floor. Knowledge sharing alone contains both hope and fear: hope that knowledge already collected can be used and reused and worked on for the benefit of innovation and development and for the benefit of cooperation between the public and the private sector with hopes of good socio-economic effects, but also fear that data will be misused and there will be some kind of distortion of competition. I also sense through the nice hearing answers a fear of: Hey, what are others going to use our laboriously collected information for? It's ours! But no, it's not. Data and information in public institutions belong to all of us and, in several contexts, can do good for many private companies, be competitive and be retrieved without a sea of barriers. Having said that, it is obviously very important that the re-use of public sector information should not result in a weakening of the protection of personal data and other sensitive data. In contrast to the previous rapporteur, I feel quite satisfied with this, because the PSI Act does not allow data to be made available for re-use, which other legislation already prohibits, and that includes, among other things, the transfer of data. data which cannot be shared for security reasons. Moreover, it is just as unclear which parts of the research data are involved, and of course we need to see a clear clarification of that. Finally, several people mention in the consultation answers that there are What are the realistic economic costs for e.g. universities know the obligations to publish? And with that in place, Conservatives support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223222554	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have signed up for those present in the Chamber, so I will give the floor to the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223222615	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the very positive reception of the draft law and also for the good speeches that have been made. I look forward to the committee reading, in which we can also have the opportunity to delve into some of the consultation responses that have been given and which, of course, are referred to quite appropriately in this debate. Let me also say at the outset that the Socialist rapporteur has asked me to say that she had been asked by the radical rapporteur to say that the Radical Left welcomes the proposal, so it is also done. The bill here means that we are strengthening access to public data. This will ensure that we comply with the EU Open Data Directive, which aims to provide easier access to more European data. In concrete terms, the proposal brings only minor and technically marked changes to the current Danish PSI law. Digitalisation and use of data is a Danish strength position. According to the UN, Denmark is the world champion of public digitalisation, and it is a position of strength that we can be proud of, but not a reason to rest on the laurels. Now that we provide better access to European public data, we are opening up to innovation. Companies can use public data on everything from transport patterns to weather conditions to develop new solutions and new business models. This can help to create growth and progress for the benefit of our businesses, but also for the benefit of all of us, because it provides better solutions. This is particularly true in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises, where innovation potential is high. We must support that and that is what we are doing with this bill. The law will also apply in the future to certain public enterprises as well as research data, which means that citizens and businesses will be able to access more public data. With the bill, we are changing the rules for collecting fees for the sale of public data. The main change is that, in future, a public list of authorities exempted from the general fee principles should be kept. It is also quite clear that the public authorities must continue to respect the EU data protection regulation and the Danish data protection law. The Danes can therefore continue to be confident that their data should be processed in a responsible way. As I said, I look forward to the committee reading and would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your kind reception here, and I hope that we will be able to put this in place together shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223222908	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223222923	The debate is open. As the first rapporteur, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Tanja Larsson from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223222948	Thank you. This bill proposes that legal bases should be reinstated under the Lease Act, the General Act and the Commercial Rental Act, so that the time limit for the submission of consumer accounts can be temporarily extended. For it is simply not justifiable if there is to be a physical reading of consumption meters in several leases across the country, as this would result in an unnecessary high risk of infection. Therefore, a further temporary extension of the deadline for the submission of consumer accounts is necessary in view of the continuing risk of spread of covid-19. In April last year the Folketing adopted a legislative amendment which allowed the deadline for the submission of consumption accounts to be extended as problems were foreseen in relation to the physical reading of consumption meters in leases. That law will be repealed on 1 March, that is to say on Monday, which is why we are here today. Because we have not yet got rid of the covid-19, and since physical reading of consumption meters in several leases across the country will cause unnecessary high risk of infection, we think it is reasonable that the deadline for the submission of consumer accounts should be extended again temporarily. This bill also contains a proposal to temporarily extend the two-year period for the holding of resident meetings with the election of residents' representatives in order to avoid the end of many resident representation as a result of the two-year period, as it has not been possible, with the ban on the assembly and other restrictions, to hold resident meetings since the closure in March last year. In the social democracy we believe that we must, of course, adapt legislation to the reality we find ourselves in. As mentioned above, we have not yet overcome the covid-19, and we therefore continue to have to limit physical contact in all parts of Danish society. For increased physical contact will also mean increased spread of covid-19. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223223231	Thank you to the speaker. Here you go to the next rapporteur, Mrs Heidi Bank from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223223251	Thank you. I can now ascertain, as Mrs Mona Juul said before, that it can stick well here when good drying has been done on the platform. This proposal is, in fact, a simple one, I think. After all, it is a question of extending the deadline for the submission of consumer accounts in order to avoid the risk of spreading covid-19. It makes sense, after all, at a time when large parts of Denmark are shut down, that we ensure that tenants have the security that they do not have to open their doors to outsiders in connection with manual reading of consumption, for example. in the case of vulnerable elderly persons. This should help prevent the spread of the covid-19 infection among tenants. This has to be said with all sorts of reservations, because none of us know how much the risk of this is. It may be that there are some calculations of it. It has certainly not been available so far. But in any case, I think this might be sensible enough for us to have that extra attention. That is also how it has been so far. We are aware, however, that it is there that those tenants who may have paid too much in account will be able to experience that they will have to wait longer to get their money back. Conversely, it will be the case for those who have been paid too little. But we must at least be aware that there are some tenants who will see that it takes longer before they get an overpaid amount back. In addition, we can support the establishment of a legal basis for extending the time limit for holding a meeting of residents' representatives. It also makes good sense at a time when much is closed, that tenants do not have to meet at resident meetings. And again I could be worried about a complete, what to say, amputated resident democracy, where there will be some who simply would not dare show up. So it's positive that we get on with this and create the extra security out there, I think. Those were the remarks from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223223519	No one has asked for the floor on this occasion, and I thank the rapporteur and welcome the next rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party in a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223223541	Thank you. I do not really have much more to add than what the rapporteurs from the Social Democrats and the Left have said here from the platform. The Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223223558	That did not give rise to any questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Halime Oguz of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223223616	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the government for bringing forward this legislative proposal, which aims to organise the legislation so that no one gets caught up in the attempt to prevent infection with the corona virus. The draft law provides for the possibility of extending deadlines which have not been possible to comply with in the light of the covid-19 pandemic. By postponing the deadline for reporting consumption accounts, we ensure a protection for tenants who do not want to visit a meter reader in the middle of a pandemic. And by extending the time limit for the meeting of residents, we ensure that residents' representation around the country is not squeezed because they have not had the opportunity to hold a meeting of residents while the pandemic has gone on. However, in the consultation note sent to us today, the LLO points out that the residents' representatives who last met before 10 February 2019, that is to say more than 2 years from the date of entry into force of this bill, should also be covered by the legislation. That makes a lot of sense. That is why I would appeal from this point of view for this to be clarified in the text so as to avoid the abolition of a large number of resident representations. Overall, the SF considers the measures necessary and very sensible, and I can tell you that, of course, the SF is voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223223753	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223223816	Thank you very much. This bill is actually quite straightforward because, as with so much other legislation in this time, it is about limiting the spread of covid-19. In this light, it is quite reasonable that the deadline for the submission of consumption accounts for water and heat etc. the time limit for the holding of meetings shall be extended. As the Left rapporteur pointed out in his rapporteur's speech, there is a focus on those who have paid too much or too little aconto. There is not so much to do about it, other than that it is so, it must be in this time, so that everyone keeps up a little and postpones getting back some of the on-the-spot payment that has been paid too much. Radical Left backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223223919	That did not give rise to any questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223223944	Thank you. It's just before that it takes longer to get drunk than to talk. We believe in the Enhedslisten that this is a necessary and uncomplicated legislative proposal. It is perfectly reasonable that it is possible to postpone the reading of the meter and that this will then mean that the heating accounting can be done later. And we think it is perfectly reasonable that those places where there is resident representation can continue, even if no electoral work has been carried out. But that doesn't mean you can't so Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223224035	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Egil Hulgaard from the Conservative People's Party as the next one, once the preparations have just been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223224102	We on the Conservative side actually agree with Enhedslisten in this bill. We also believe that it is uncomplicated to extend the time limit for measuring reading and to extend the time limit for consumer accounts, while at the same time allowing for an extension of the time limit for meeting of representatives of residents, elections to the representation of residents, so that the present representation of residents can continue. So in these words, we support the proposal from the Conservative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223224141	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments. There are no more written rapporteurs, and that is why I shall give the floor to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223224159	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the rapporteurs. I was just discussing with the radical rapporteur whether this should be the first legislative procedure in this Chamber, where Enhedslisten does not put questions to me as a minister. But I can't believe that. Yeah, now it's getting pushed in, that's good. But thank you for your positive reception. This bill contains two parts. The purpose of the first part is to extend the deadline for the submission of consumer accounts. It follows from the Lease Act, the General Rental Act and the Commercial Rental Act that consumption accounts must be forwarded to tenants within 4 months of the end of the accounting period. The accounts shall be drawn up on the basis of the consumption recorded in the consumption meters in each lease. For some meters it requires physical access to the lease to read the meters. In order to avoid the risk of spreading the covid-19, and since it is to be expected that, as a result of the pandemic, many tenants do not want physical visits by meter readers in the lease, it is proposed that a legal basis be established to extend the deadline for the submission of consumption accounts. Once the bill has been adopted, I and the Minister for Industry will issue a decree laying down the detailed rules for extending the deadline for the submission of consumer accounts. A similar scheme was introduced in spring 2020 with an end of 1 March 2021. The purpose of the second part of the draft law is to extend the time limit for the holding of meetings of residents' representatives. According to the rules of the Lease Act, the tenants of private rental property have the possibility to establish resident representation. The housing representation system allows the tenants to choose a number of representatives who represent the tenants' interests in relation to the landlord. It follows from the rules that if there has been no meeting of residents for two years with the election of residents' representatives, resident representation will lapse. Following the notice on the representation of residents, the meeting shall be held in each calendar year before 1 April. As it has not been possible to hold a meeting of residents in the spring of 2020 due to corona restrictions on many resident representation, these will risk disappearing as a result of the two-year deadline. In order to avoid burdening tenants with the need to use resources to restore resident representation, it is proposed that a legal basis be established to extend the deadline for holding the meeting. As in the case of consumer accounts, once the amendment of the law has been adopted, I will issue a notice extending the time limit for the holding of resident meetings. The bill shall enter into force after its adoption by means of a notice in the Official Gazette. For both parts of the draft law, however, the amendment is proposed to take effect on 10 February. This will ensure that as many consumption accounts as possible are covered by the extension of the deadline and that as many resident representatives as possible benefit from the extension of the deadline for holding the meeting. I would like to thank you for your positive comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223224438	As no one else has asked for the floor, not including Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223224452	There is no more to be done in this meeting The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 24 February 2021, at 8 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
