ParlaMint-DK_20210827100002	The meeting is open. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Folketing of Bjørn Brandenborg as a member of the Supervisory Board on the employment of inmates in the criminal services institutions for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Jep Bruus. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that, with effect from 17 August 2021, it has appointed a member of the Folketing Leif Lahn Jensen as a state auditor instead of a member of the Folketing Jesper Petersen, who was appointed Minister of Education and Research on 16 August 2021. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Folketing of Jeppe Bruus as a member of the National Bank of Denmark for the remainder of the current term of office instead of a member of the Folketing of Jesper Petersen. The person concerned is then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827100107	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that Mrs Anne Rasmussen, the 3rd Vice-President of the Left in Copenhagen, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 12 August 2021, when Tommy Ahlers resigned his mandate per year. 11 August 2021. It should be noted that the first and second alternates have announced that they do not wish to take over the vacant mandate. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827100140	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. For the vote 103 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, KD, Orla Østerby (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against the vote 0, abstentions 0.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827100229	The item listed as No. 4 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827100250	The vote shall be taken in favour of the debate on item 4 of the agenda. As you know, a three-quarters majority is required for such consent. A vote can be taken. I hear the screen's mirrored. We'll just have a look at the technique. That concludes voting time. In favour of 87 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA, KD, Orla Østerby (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), against 20 (DF, EL, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The derogation is granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827100404	Bjørn Brandenborg (S) has applied for leave from 16 September 2021, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827100436	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy of the Social Democratic Party of Funen, Alexander Grandt, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 16 September 2021 on the occasion of Bjørn Brandenborg's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy does not have the right to take up such leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827100506	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 109 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827100539	Amendments have been tabled. I would point out that, following the publication of the agenda, Amendment No 1 has been tabled. 6, outside the report, by Jacob Mark (SF), who can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the matter. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827100616	Thank you. Once upon a time in the school field, there was an incredibly clever opinion-former who said: "Take care, for people are here. In fact, this is how I feel in relation to the great welfare area, where in the future we will need all these great people to take care of us in hospitals, make sure that we are safe in the maternity halls, take care of our children in the day care institutions and ensure that we can go to work safely and that there is a safety net for all people. My concern is that this intervention does not tread with caution, that you will leave behind not only the nurses, but also the other professional groups who, for decades, have experienced unequal wages, unequal pay and difficult conditions as a limit to living the dream they had when they trained, so that with this intervention we cannot attract all the people in the future and that they will become impotent and say away. That is why we are also trying to table a number of amendments, and that is why I have taken the floor at second reading to explain them. The first amendment is the most important one. It is about ensuring the economy of the pay structure committee, which now needs to be set up to make recommendations on how to create more equal pay between public sector employees in the future. We are afraid that if you do not set aside the economy, that is, if there is not a bag of money to be distributed to correct the unequal wages in the future, this will be just another pickle jar. Quality costs. It will cost something to make up for wages, and if we do not cut off the economy, we fear that there will only be another collective bargaining in which the regions and municipalities will not really be able to change these unfair structures. I hope and call for the majority that could be possible, if for example. The Social Democrats and Radicals voted with us because the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten will be involved in setting aside money to correct these unequal salaries. The second amendment is less far-reaching, but still important. When you set up a pay structure committee to look at them as unequal wages, it is of course important that you take it seriously and that you commit to taking up the recommendations that come from that pay structure committee, but there is nothing about that in the draft law. Yes, it is true that it has to be presented to the parties, but we are therefore proposing an amendment to the effect that we commit ourselves to convening negotiations on these recommendations. The third amendment is even less far-reaching. It's about all the parties in the Folketing having a responsibility. This applies not only to those who vote in favour of the legislative action, but to all parties of the Folketing, because we all have a responsibility for this, and we have had it since 1969, when the civil service reform was made to change this unequal pay structure that is in the public sector. Right now, the Minister is only proposing to invite those who vote in favour of the intervention, and we are probably not going to do so, because I do not expect these amendments to be accepted. But the least that could be done, and the nurses have also called for this, is to invite all parties. I think that is also in the spirit of the people's regime. On the other hand, we are going to withdraw the amendment which has been tabled outside the report. 6, outside the report back. It is an amendment which deals with the fact that there must be a deadline for the work of the pay structure committee. After all, the pay structure committee has been set up on request from FH, and the letter from FH states that you want a deadline called May 2022. We have tabled this amendment outside the report, because it is unclear in the draft law and because we have not been able to get a reply from the Minister yesterday, in order to secure the deadline that the FH itself has presented and proposed. After all, some time has passed since May, when the FH presented it here, and what the Minister has promised since we tabled this amendment is immediately after the discussion here to send a letter promising that once this salary structure committee is set up, the work will have to be completed on deadline by the end of 2022 next year; and that is important. This is important because it then comes a little at a distance from the collective bargaining. This is important because then there is a real possibility that politicians can actually take responsibility for these unequal wage structures before simply pushing the monkey forward to a new collective bargaining. So I would like to thank the Minister and the majority for that. So we are withdrawing that amendment. I think that's it. I hope that the majority who will vote through these government measures will vote in favour of these amendments, because I think it is important that, compared with all the many people who have been on the street on Tuesday after Tuesday, we have thrown candy into my garden in Holbæk and what else they have done with us all to draw attention to the important message that there are unequal pay structures in the public sector leaves them with some hope. And the least we can do there is to make sure that it does not become a jar of jam, that there is an economy, that we commit ourselves to working on these recommendations that come and make sure that it is all the parties that put their hands on the hot plate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101202	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101206	Thank you. I would just like to start by expressing my complete agreement with Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark's statement that higher wages contribute to the desire to work, that higher wages help to maintain and motivate people in the public sector too. So we have a common desire that there should be good pay conditions also in the public sector. After all, there are other ways to increase the pay paid than through wage increases. Another possible way is to lower the tax. In the Liberal Alliance, we have proposed that the first DKK 7,000 earned each month should be tax-free. It will also increase the wages paid, at least the salaries paid, also for the professional groups which Mr. Jacob Mark mentions. Will it be something that the SF will support in terms of removing the bomb under the welfare society that I sense there is right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101253	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101255	It is true that it will change the pay paid but, on the other hand, it will also cost a huge amount of money that we would have to fund from in here to tax reductions. And where would you take that money? Yes, I can think of it, because now I have been in a municipal council and in here for six years, and it is always the same areas that pay, it is the same classics: the standards in today's institutions have been running for 30 years in connection with unfinanced tax reductions; the area of disability, which is no longer linked, our vulnerable children and young people are the ones who pay. All the areas that are unregulated but are so important for our core welfare are those that will pay for the tax reductions that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh wants to do. There we simply think it is a more reasonable model to either allow some to finance the equal pay we would like to have in the public sector and we propose a property tax of 0.5%. on the largest fortunes or that you re-prioritize. For example: one might wonder whether it makes sense in the present, with the labour market we have, to have a housing job scheme that we spend a great deal of money on. The money can be found in other ways than tax reductions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101406	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101407	So, whether you have to find a few billion for wage increases in the public sector or have to find a few billion for tax cuts, the money has to be found no matter what. But I understand that if it is for tax relief, they can only be found by tightening up public employees, while if we are to find money for higher wages, they can suddenly be found by reprioritising or getting higher taxes. I just have to say that, of course, we can also set different priorities in the public sector and say that we want fewer academics, we want less paperwork. The increase we have seen in the number of academics in the municipalities over the last 10 years at 44 per cent, we will have put an end to. We want fewer cold hands, and then we need to spend the money on lower taxes. The rapporteur is, of course, right in saying that it will be more expensive because lower tax rates are being granted to everyone in Denmark and not just to public employees, but is it a problem that others should enjoy the same pleasure that they would like to give nurses in the form of more paid pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101450	If tax is generally reduced, it will, firstly, be a huge bill, which I fear will once again hit the norms, the public schools, our vulnerable children and young people, the area of disability. And you will not make a determined difference for the people we believe a difference should be made for here, namely those professional groups who, due to the civil service reform decade after decade, have fallen behind in their salaries. On the other hand, it is possible to do so if we do a reform which says that we are now raising the salaries of those groups which, due to an old civil service reform, have fallen behind year after year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101520	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101524	Thank you. Now Mr. Jacob Mark, both yesterday and today, the expression takes it seriously. I'd like to print that a little bit, if you'll excuse me. I'll take note of that, sir. Jacob Mark consistently fails to mention KD as those who do not support the bill. It was both yesterday, and it was also today and, by the way, also the Free Greens, but peace be with it. One thing is who you mention; another thing is if you want to have people on your amendments and you ask others to negotiate, which you call on the government to why the SF has not summoned the parties who agree with the SF that the legislative action that comes here is insufficient. Why has it not been called for a debate on how to find that money? Because it is easy to say that we allocate 2 billion. However, we do not necessarily agree on how to finance the 2 billion. kr. or 5 billion. kr., or how much money it takes. Why doesn't the SF do its political craft? But it may be because one has forgotten to invite some and then only negotiated with others. Or what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101635	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101637	First of all, I regret that I have not mentioned the Christian Democrats and the Free Greens. It has not been for any evil purpose. I am very pleased that there are more of us voting against the legislative action which does not solve the fundamental problem of unequal pay in the public sector. On the other hand, I do not believe that it is our responsibility to ensure that negotiations are conducted widely among the parties alone. In other words, we are happy to contribute to it, and we also said on the platform yesterday that we know that it is not necessarily the source of funding that we are pointing out that we are going to have to finance the correction of these imbalanced salaries. However, if we are to resolve this, we need the government, which is, of course, the government, and that is what we are proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101722	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101723	However, when you table an amendment, it is good to use a little political knuckle-fight and then call the parties you know sympathise with your position to see what it takes for them to vote in favour. I think, of course, that the SF's proposal is very sympathetic and I would like to vote in favour. I also think it is sympathetic that the proposal to allocate 2 billion has actually been made. kr. Even if it doesn't go far in the big total pool, it's a start. We do not necessarily agree with the funding, and we should then negotiate on this, so that we have a chance to vote in favour of a proposal which we consider to be sympathetic but which we consider to be lacking in funding and which, moreover, is not included in the SF's draft Finance Act. And that's why I want to know if it's going to happen for the coming year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101814	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101815	Yes, we are going to have it included in our financial bill that money should be set aside for more equal pay in the public sector, among other things. because the Socialist rapporteur was kind enough to encourage us to bring it into the financial law negotiations. In relation to what happened with the process of amendments, I just think I would say that the Employment Committee is at 8 p.m. 23.00 last night had a very fine meeting, in which we actually had the opportunity to discuss these amendments. And I did not hear there that anyone needed to ask questions about our funding or that there was a need for a debate. In fact, I think it was a fine debate and I think we have had the opportunity to discuss the amendments that lie before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101851	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101854	Thank you very much and thank you to the rapporteur and also to the SF for supporting what we really think is a modest amendment from the Enhedslisten, which is that the government should, of course, call for negotiations so that we can secure a financial framework so that it does not become hot air, as the rapporteur also says, or a jam jar. I would like to follow up on something, and that is that yesterday, at the conciliation meeting, the Minister for Employment said that it is a tradition to elevate the conciliation sketch to law by government intervention. I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that there is a precedent for adding improvements to government action, among other things. That's what happened in 1998. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101938	Yes, I can confirm that. And in 2013 the so-called Law No. 409; I'd say it didn't make the law much better, but when you made law no. 409, which regulated the teacher's working time, also made changes at the last minute, so you can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101954	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827101957	Thank you to the rapporteur for just providing even more examples of how we can easily look back on traditions that show that something more can be put on. One could ensure that there is a financial framework so that it is not just empty words, but that we actually know that there is room for improvement. But then I would just like to ask the rapporteur: even if it was the tradition that said that only mediation skits had been elevated to law, does the rapporteur not agree that it is time to put an end to the tradition of underpaying women, that it is time to do away with the tradition of unequal pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102036	Yeah, I totally agree with that, and I'm glad we're fighting that fight together. Maybe I'll just put a few extra words on the matter of exalting the mediation sketch. Because what's a little unusual about this process that's been going on is that we all knew that this wasn't just about the nurses. It is the nurses who have been on the strike, I agree, but we have all known well, also because they have stood out in the Palace Square on Tuesday after Tuesday, that many professional groups have been affected by this, many professional groups wanted a solution. And the government has also recognised that there is a problem, otherwise it would not have set up the pay structure committee. That is why I also believe that exceptional problems, which have been going on for 50 years, require exceptional solutions, and this is also the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102114	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102116	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. I appreciate the tones we hear from the SF today. We had a very long discussion yesterday in which the Free Greens said that we are extremely sorry that the Radical Left and the SF have supported this urgent procedure, because we believe it de facto means supporting the legislative action, but we had that discussion yesterday. The reason I stand up today is because I just want to vote in here with the KD and say that there are some of us parties that are not members of the Employment Committee and therefore cannot participate in those discussions. That is why it would have been very good, especially because, on that side of the House at least, we want to show solidarity with the nurses that everyone had been taken along with this work and sent the proposal over. We will be supporting the part of the report from a minority in the Committee on Employment and I would just like to confirm what the KD says and just tell the rapporteur that it is not all of us who sit on the Employment Committee and that we remember in the future that, of course, we must all stand together for these professional groups: nurses, sosus, midwives, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102232	It is true that we support urgent procedure. It is not because I want to be boring, but it is not unusual to support urgent procedures because urgent solutions and answers are needed but do not support the legislative proposal that is being dealt with. This is not the first time this has happened in the time of the Folketing. This has actually happened many times and we believe that intervention was needed. We also heard the nurses, Danish Regions and KL say so. I recognise that this is a dilemma, and I also recognise the position taken by the Free Greens, but it was important for us that this conflict should be brought to an end now. We disagree with the way it ends. That is also why we are tabling the amendment. That is why we end up voting no. I would just like to say that this is a good point about the fact that there are some parties that do not sit in all committees and that they must of course also be involved. I promise I'll do that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102319	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102323	Thank you. What trigged me a little bit was that there was a discussion about what was traditional and the conflict in 2013 was mentioned. But is it not true that in 2013, when it was quite a different kind of conflict, there was no mediation sketch? It was a lockout we talked about; there wasn't really anything. Well, then, sir. Jacob Mark didn't confirm that there was no mediation sketch in 2013?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102355	You couldn't agree on anything, so you basically just elevated what KL wanted to do to law it's right and then you made a few improvements at the end. That is true, so it was wrong to say that there was a mediation sketch. But what the KL wanted was what the Ministry of Finance and the government wanted to do... was just what was exalted with a few changes. This shows that, if you want, the government can make changes or major changes when it is needed. But the rapporteur is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102422	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. And then, sir... Bent Bøgsted asked for the floor too. Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827102446	Thank you for that, President. Today is quite a special day, because today the government has decided by a large majority that the nurses' strike should be brought to an end so that they can get back to work tomorrow morning. There are many differences of opinion about this. I should just like to say from the outset that in the Danish People's Party we think it is good that patients can again receive the treatment they need and are entitled to. Having said that, we also think it is wrong for the government to romp over the nurses in the way that has happened, because nurses have not in any way met any particular goodwill on the part of the government, nor on the part of the parties supporting the government in the decision that the strike should be stopped by government intervention. It seems as if you have been waiting for the nurses to have emptied the strike box, and that it was long enough now, and then it is justified by the fact that there are some critical functions, and that now it is hitting hard indeed, it is, of course, but that is the way the nurses can assert themselves and point out that something is wrong. There has just been no sensitivity to this by the government. You've just rolled over the nurses. This is also why we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the government's intervention. We would have liked to have looked at how we could have put an end to this in a good way with negotiations with nurses on how we could ensure that they could be allocated more resources. We absolutely believe that nurses are worth much more than they get. There are also other wage groups in the public sector that we think are worth much more than what they are getting at the present time. But now the government has said no, that it must stop now and that we must not have any more strike and then put an end to it. At the same time, a pay committee, a pay structure committee, will be set up to look into the situation. It is then inserted into the law on stopping the strike and renewing the nurse's agreement, and then it is said that only those parties who vote for an intervention will be allowed to take part in the mandate and to negotiate what will happen afterwards. We think that is totally wrong, because the two things could have been separated. They don't have to belong together. We think it is absolutely necessary to look more closely at the structure of the collective agreement system for public employees, because we have some special groups which have not been entitled to strike and which cannot simply go out to strike and block, nor can they be locked out. So it is a very special group for itself, and a very large group, we have to say. It is they who drive public Denmark and who have some special rules. They can't just go out and say that now we're not doing any more; all strikes. You can't do that. There is an emergency basis that must be in order and there must be no more strikers than you can just take out without it all stalling. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have come to the conclusion that there is a need for something more to be added to the government's pay structure committee, and that is why we have an amendment which, of course, we hope there will be more to vote in favour of than those who have expressed it and thanks to the Enhedslisten, SF, the Free Greens and the Alternative who have supported this proposal. However, what is at stake is that by 1 January 2022 the government is required to draw up proposals to adjust how conflicts in the public labour market can be dealt with in the future. The proposal for adjustments may take into account the special conditions which characterise the opportunities of several groups of employees in a conflict situation in the public labour market where several working groups, for example: staff members of the health service, the police and the criminal services, including: Because of the need to maintain critical functions in society, the strike weapon cannot be used in a conflict situation in the same way as employee groups in the private labour market, and the government is required to submit proposals to the Danish Parliament on how to adjust tripartite cooperation in the public labour market in order to reflect the special conditions prevailing in this part of the Danish labour market. We have then received some criticism that it was indeed fast, it was supposed to be on 1 January 2022. Well, the pay structure committee starts this autumn, and it has to be done fairly quickly, and then it can't help anything that we say it's not for another year. It has to come in from the beginning. It has to be introduced when the Committee on Wages and salaries is set up; if we can otherwise obtain a majority in favour of what we hope for, because these are sensible things we are going to raise here, and the government should also take that into account and say that the content of that amendment is actually very sensible, that it is some of the things that the pay structure committee should look at and that it should be included in the terms of reference. But it will not, because the majority in favour of the intervention is against the amendments from the Danish People's Party and they are against the amendments from the Enhedslisten and from the SF. So none of this comes with us. You don't really care about that. As I have said, the parties that have not voted in favour of an intervention will not be involved in negotiating the mandate nor in negotiating what will happen afterwards. The government has once and for all taken care of that. One thing is that the Danish People's Party has been put outside the door here, but another thing is that two of the support parties have certainly also been put outside the door, emphatically. I cannot believe that the two support parties will put up with it from the government's side. There's gotta be consequences. If they're going to back the government in thick and thin, the government shouldn't sneak up on the support parties. They do, but it is the support parties themselves who are allowed to decide how they will deal with that situation. The Danish People's Party cannot tell the government that we do not support them anymore, because we are not the support party for the government, so they probably do not care about that. However, I would just like to say that we support the amendment from the Enhedslisten and we support the amendments from the SF, apart from the one with the 2 billion. kr. It's a little tricky, so we'll vote yellow for it. But we support the others, including that outside the report. The Danish People's Party also says yes to this, because it is a sensible proposal, and it is fully in line with Dansk Folkeparti's own proposal and Enhedslisten's proposal. In the Enhedslistens there is a lot with the economy, but there is nothing about the economy. It says that we must gather together for negotiations on the economy in it, and that is another thing; then we can say if there is something economic that we do not like. But otherwise, the good proposal that many more people should support is good, but no, the government says: we don't care about those amendments, even though they are quite reasonable, we don't care if we pry our support parties, and we don't care about prying the Danish People's Party. We can then understand that the government is probably totally indifferent to what the Danish People's Party is saying at this time, since we are not the support party. I think the government is going to regret this, because this procedure, as I understand it, will also mean that the nurses say they work according to the rules. The flexibility in the health sector and the flexibility that may be elsewhere fall to the ground with this intervention, because the government has not responded to the nurses' objections. The arguments they have had to move forward have not been taken into account. I know that there is some economy in it, but that is, the economy is determined by the government. If the regions are to be able to provide more to the nurses, they must increase what the regions have to work with, and they do not. Yesterday I asked for open consultation with the 1,000 nurses, where they were, if they had come and where the money was needed for it, and I did not get an honest answer to that. I do not think the Minister could answer that, but it may come later. All in all, of course, the Danish People's Party cannot support this intervention, but, as I said, we support the amendments that I have described from up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103342	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103344	It is also a little in order to print some of the things. By the way, I very much agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Bent Bøgsted on the question of the right to strike, whether it is really possible to talk about it being present. The most absurd thing in this conflict has been that in several places emergency preparedness has been set up, dictating a higher emergency response than normal emergency response to nurses. Well, it's Kafkask about something. And then the right to strike and the right to conflict has actually disappeared. So, sir... Bent Bøgsted is absolutely right. But we did a little bit about it yesterday: it is fine to table some amendments which have some positive intentions, and the government has to make some proposals, and we would like to support that on how to ensure a proper right to strike, but how exactly is the Danish People's Party supposed to be better off in the future when it comes to negotiating with the same person that has actually been negotiated with now, namely the Minister of Finance and the Regions Salaries and Takstikas, because the Danish People's Party wants to abolish the regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103458	I would like to say first of all that I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Jens Rohde in this emergency response thing. This makes you just pull some away from there so that not many people can strike. That's what you do there. Having said that, I would like to say a few words about the latter, sir. Jens Rohde says about negotiations that this is what lies in the new structure that we want to have in place. That is where the Danish People's Party's contribution to the structure of the collective bargaining system is. You have to look at that in the pay structure committee. That's where you have to look at it. How will a new structure be versus what is today, so that it will be a better way of negotiating? I know, sir. Jens Rohde will then say something about the economy of the regions, and yesterday Jens Rohde spoke about the fact that they did not have tax printing anymore. But that is where the government, if we are to have better health care, if we are to have more nurses and there are more elderly people who are caring for care, then must lead more money to the regions to pay it. The Danish People's Party is willing to negotiate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103604	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103605	I agree, of course, that the regions have somehow become something like this in between. They are neither bird nor fish; they are something that we use in here to legitimise our decisions, and they might as well be abolished. I think that we should go the other way and decentralise and then ensure that we can plan and match expectations and efforts with the citizens out of the region, and therefore give the regions the right of taxation back. That is absolutely right. Because then they get some muscle strength and they get some maneuverability during the negotiations. Why will the Danish People's Party not be involved in decentralising this, for it will per year. definition make the nurses and the parties stronger when negotiating, instead of it being us sitting on it all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103652	Thank you! Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103653	This is because the Danish People's Party believes that the regions should not be there. It had to be controlled from somewhere else. But it is fair enough that the Christian Democrats have a desire to re-introduce tax printing to the regions. That is the policy of the Christian Democrats, and that is all right. I accept that. I respect the positions that Mr. Jens Rohde has. He is a man of many words and stands by what he says. I respect that. But the Danish People's Party has a different attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103718	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. And then Mrs Jette Gottlieb has asked to speak. Mrs. Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103743	The Enhedslisten remains deeply disappointed by the government's action in this matter. To make a legislative act on the basis of a mediation sketch, which the members of the Danish Nursing Council have twice rejected, is to neglect a problem that the nurses have pointed out with great force for much more than 25 years, and as the government now has the only absolutely sure result of this intervention, after all, is that the government has authorized, that it is going to be at least 3 years before a solution to the problem is started,...
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103824	Wait a minute. We're gonna have a little quiet in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827103828	and the problem involves a very large proportion of the public services, so it is not just the nurses we are talking about. We talk for a lot of people that this is a problem that needs to be resolved. But there is another way, and that is why the Enhedslisten votes in favour of the amendments tabled by the SF and the Danish People's Party, and our own amendment offers this other way. We believe that it is essential that the Folketing undertake to act on this issue of equal pay. The Enhedslisten's proposal does not provide a concrete framework, but obliges the Danish Parliament to understand that it is also the Danish Parliament's responsibility to secure funding. This is absolutely necessary if we are not to let down the equal pay struggle and if the solution is not to be postponed for even more years. During yesterday's long reading, Enhedslisten received a kind of concession from the government, namely that the government will not present the work of the salary structure committee as cost-neutral. We are keeping that promise to the government, because it is obvious that it takes money to implement the issue of equal pay. It is often said that the battle is lost, but now there is time to win a new one. In this matter, we will not even recognise that the battle has been lost, because the nurses have really managed to put the agenda on this issue and they are putting the agenda on behalf of many people, and it can therefore be said that this is a promise that this fight will continue. And we will say to those who have been very active also outside the walls here: keep fighting for it. We stand with you and we are sure that we will achieve a result, perhaps later than before, there is nothing to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827104023	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. As far as I can see, no one else has asked for the floor. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827104039	First of all, I would like to remind you that Mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party has announced that he is withdrawing Amendment No. Six outside the report. Does anyone wish to accept this amendment? As this is not the case, Amendment No. 6 lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (EL, SF and ALT). A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. It also looks as if the screen is now turning the right way. In favour of 28 votes (DF, SF, EL, KD, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 77 votes (S, V, RV, KF, NB, LA, Orla Østerby (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, SF and ALT). A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. For the votes of 29 (DF, SF, EL, KD, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 76 (S, V, RV, KF, NB, LA, Orla Østerby (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (DF, EL and ALT). A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. For the votes of 29 (DF, SF, EL, KD, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 76 (S, V, RV, KF, NB, LA, Orla Østerby (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL and ALT). A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour of 20 (SF, EL, KD, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 77 (S, V, RV, KF, NB, LA, Orla Østerby (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 9 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL, DF, NB and ALT). A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour of 31 votes (DF, SF, EL, NB, KD, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 75 votes (S, V, RV, KF, LA, Orla Østerby (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827104423	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held today at 2 p.m. 11.00 with third reading of L 240.
