ParlaMint-DK_20210203130003	The meeting is open. After that, sir. Jens Rohde has resigned from the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, the parliamentary group has appointed Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen to join the Bureau as the third Vice-President of the House. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs (Kaare Dybvad Bek): Bill no. L 153 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Procurement of Municipalities and Regions in Covid-19. Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. L 154 (Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code. Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries (Rasmus Prehn): Bill No. L 155 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Environment and Genetic Engineering. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Susanne Zimmer (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG) have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the limitation of fireworks. B 83). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203130105	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed. I should also like to start by saying that this is an urgent question which includes two ministers. Experience has shown that we can deal with it, but that means that there is a time limit of two hours. I will mention this at the beginning of the sitting. For the explanatory statement of the question, it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mr President. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203130134	Thank you. After all, we have called on the Minister of Health, who has then brought a friend with us, for an urgent request with the following wording: Will the Minister take the initiative to draw up a plan for the reopening of Denmark based on the recommendations of the trade reference group, including in relation to education, liberal professions, retail trade etc.? When we have asked for it to be an urgent question, it is because we think there is a need for some hope that is needed for the Danes, for the school pupils and their parents, for the business community and many other parts of Danish society. So, first of all, we would like to ask whether the government plans to draw up a real perspective plan so that the Danes can see more precisely what conditions must be met in order for Denmark to be reopened more. Secondly, we would like to know whether the government has asked the authorities to make the same detailed calculations as were used to allow the small classes to go back to school and in other areas. Thirdly, it might be interesting to get the government's perspective on whether other isolated needle-stick operations and re-openings can be carried out in the short run, along the lines of what was done in relation to smaller classes, provided, of course, that the necessary safeguards are put in place to prevent the spread of the disease running away, as it were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203130337	Thank you for that, sir. Martin Geertsen. Then we go to the answer, and first it is the acting Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203130354	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you also for the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of this urgent question. As we can all feel, we have been living with the corona for almost a year now. It has created severe restrictions on our lives and had major consequences for our society. And therefore it is no wonder that we are all impatient to return to what one might call a normal everyday life. However, we must also be quite honest and say that, as the situation stands at the moment, it is absolutely essential that we stick to our common objective, namely to get Denmark as safely through the serious crisis as possible. Therefore, we must arm ourselves with patience and not make hasty decisions. Running infectivity risks leading to even greater socio-economic costs than we do today. In other words, the crisis risks costing more lives and more money if we rush it and lose our grip on the infection. As the Minister for Health will also tell you in a moment, the new virus variants mean that we need to proceed cautiously. The re-opening of society must take place in a sound way so that we take into account both infection, the economy, well-being and a whole range of other factors. It will be a gradual and controlled re-opening in several phases. I would like to make it quite clear that of course we do not know how important it is for companies to know what to deal with and what to plan for. And I understand the desire to be able to prepare for the reopening of your shop, restaurant or small hair salon. I believe, however, that most people will agree with me that we must avoid a situation where we open and so soon have to shut down again because the infection gets out of control again. In addition, I would also like to stress that the work to prepare for the reopening of our society is in January came the trade union reference group ^ as the group of experts we set up in the context of the national early warning system, after all called the recommendations for how we can re-open society gradually. The experts have looked at a large number of factors and on that basis assessed the order in which we can best open society when the infection allows it. Those recommendations are the basis for a reopening plan for the government, and the concrete details we are preparing to discuss with the parties of the Folketing. As the work of the expert group clearly shows, there are many dimensions that need to be considered when we address the reopening. The experts point out, for example, that there are high socio-economic costs associated with schoolchildren staying at home. Therefore, the smallest schoolchildren have been in the front row to get back to school. In the field of education, experts recommend prioritising the graduation classes in primary and secondary schools, while other groups, for example: higher education should be opened later. When it comes to occupations and jobs, it is difficult to establish a sequence in advance; it is, of course, precisely this. Depending on the evolution of the infection. For example: the opening of centres or restaurants and cafés has a greater socio-economic significance than e.g. the opening up of the professions, only because they are larger sectors. However, the opening up of centres, restaurants and cafés will also be associated with a significantly higher risk of infection. So the order of when and which occupations and jobs can open first depends on how much room there is for relaxation when we look at the infection. We have also begun to prepare for the times during and after re-opening is society. In close cooperation with the business community, we have just begun the technological development of a so-called coronapas, which must be able to demonstrate easily and safely whether covid-19 has been vaccinated. It can become an important tool to get society moving more quickly when the infection allows it. In addition, we propose an extended and strategic use of lightning tests in connection with the reopening. The Minister for Health will also elaborate on this. As I said before, the reference group's report is the government's basis for a reopening plan, and the details will of course be discussed with the parties of the Folketing. When we can start reopening Danish societies depends on the development of infection. This must be done on the recommendation of the health authorities. In the meantime, we continue to hold our hands under Danish business, Danish cultural life, Danish jobs and Danish employees. Our aim is to protect Danish jobs and companies in Danish society and ensure that they and the economy have the best possible conditions to get through the crisis as far as possible. We know that the aid packages are working and that is why we must maintain this strategy. We in this Parliament have made unusually many big, important decisions and we have come a long way. And the coming time will also require that we continue to stand together to ensure that we can get the infection down, the vaccines out, and that we can ensure as right and as good a basis as possible for Danish companies and Danish employees to come as safely as possible through this crisis we are facing now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203130949	Thank you. Speaking time is divided between the two ministers. Five minutes have been spent now, and then five minutes to the Minister of Health. But now it is possible for each of the general rapporteurs to have a brief comment. Sir. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131000	Thank you. And thank you to the acting Minister for Finance for the speech. I have seen, and the Minister also refers to the fact that today the government, together with the business partners, Danish Business and Danish Industry, has launched a sketch, one might call it a coronapas. And I followed very, very interested in the press conference. We in the Left agree that it has some really sensible perspectives. But I also think that I heard the Minister say something about the fact that a coronapas was the prerequisite for us to reopen Denmark. And I also heard the Minister say that it will probably take at least two or three months for the solution to be completed. Does this mean in the Minister's optics that we have to wait 2, 3, 4 months to be able to do just gradual reopening of this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131059	No, it doesn't mean that. I think we share the view and that it is clear to me that the rapporteurs present are also doing so, that we do not want Denmark to be shut down one day more than necessary. And what has been set in motion today is a public-private, if the questioner will, technological development project, preparing for the situation which, I hope, will all countries face soon, that is, everyday life can begin to move closer to normal. And there can be such a passport, where you can see who has been vaccinated, help to give it extra security, both for the small trader and, of course, for the citizen himself. It will take some time to develop it, it's clear, but it's not what determines when we can start taking these discussions... we'll have them on a regular basis with Parliament's parties on the basis of the recommendations of the reference group.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131157	Then it is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131159	Thank you very much to the acting Minister for Finance. There are many things I would like to ask. Now we just got into the corona passport, and I am worried that you are already going out now and saying that a coronapa should show whether or not you have had a vaccination I would very much like to ask about that. Because how sure is the acting Minister of Finance that you will not continue to infect, and what if you are so uncertain about it? And what will be done in relation to those who cannot tolerate a vaccine or are advised against a vaccine? Is it the view of the Socialists that we should divide the country into two when there are some who cannot tolerate it and some who are dissuaded and those under 17 years of age? Yes, there are many different things. And what is the safety that you cannot get sick from the vaccine yourself or be infected and continue to infect?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131250	Thank you for the question. It is quite true that there are a great many issues at the stage we are entering now. This coronapas is in the phase that has been initiated now, intended as an instrument, and hopefully there will be answers in the process to most of the questions asked by the questioner. That is what can be said about development work which will now begin, of course, to help answer. When it is ready, it is clear that how it should be used and where it should be used is, of course, a political decision, and that is something that will be put into discussion with the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131333	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131334	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. If we are to take the vaccine passport first, I think it would now be wise to take the angle that as long as we do not have the assurance that the infection will not be carried on, even if it has been vaccinated, it is a rather hypothetical discussion to what extent it can be used. But I'd like to ask you something else. After all, we fully agree with the government in the line that has been taken on a precautionary strategy, and also with the fact that the SSI is now sitting and counting on when there may be room for further reopening. We must, of course, wait for that work. But when we can see that there is that room, there is also a balance of where it is that we have to open. I would like to know what the government's position is on this, because I believe that we have a huge problem of distrust, especially among children and young people, which is also why we are opening up to the 0-4th class. Is it also the focus that the government wants when there is room for further reopening, or is it more concerned with looking at retail and construction markets and other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131432	The issue of well-being is entirely relevant. There is no doubt that the long period we have had, unfortunately, and the uncertainty associated with the period coming, especially for vulnerable families, children and young people in vulnerable families, children and young people who need extra help at school and who, if they have not been able to attend the school, have had to sit in front of a computer monitor, make them certainly in a difficult situation. We are very aware of this. So I can give the promise that it is something that the government is very concerned about. From the start of this, we have had a very, very clear focus on these groups, and as a society we have a special responsibility to follow what the situation and the developments we have unfortunately ended up in mean to them. So Enhedslisten can be absolutely sure that will have our focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131530	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131531	Thank you. I would also like to talk about the vaccine passport, because I was genuinely concerned when I heard this about the need for a vaccine passport. With the new epidemic law, a broad majority of the Danish Parliament has rejected forced vaccination, and I fear that this could be forced vaccination through the back door. It is not because I want to put something in the shoes of the government, but it is a sincere concern, also because the proposal for an epidemic law put forward by the government contained forced vaccination. Then Parliament said that it did not want to, and then a new proposal came up for an epidemic law where forced vaccination was not part of it. Now there's something here. You don't force people to get a vaccine, but if you have a vaccine, you decide whether you can participate fully and completely in society, at least according to what I heard about being able to say whether or not you had received a vaccine. So I would like to ask you about the ideas that have been behind it and whether you do not fear that people will be divided into those who can participate fully in society and others who cannot participate fully.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131633	This should not be something that divides Denmark; it should be something that brings Denmark together to get through the crisis we are in. That is why it is, of course, an important issue, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is asking, and that will also be part of the discussions we are going to have. We have one interest, and I hope we share that, namely that as a country we will be able to get through this terrible crisis that we have ended up in as safe a way as possible and as quickly as possible. There this can be an instrument that can help to support the security of a reopening of Danish society. That is why it has been set in motion, and it has to be said that the support for it from those who are going to be involved in developing it is great, and that is something that I think will give it extra security in a reopening of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131721	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, here in the first place you only have one question. Once we have finished with the Minister, we will return to the normal procedure for short remarks. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131731	Thank you. And thank you for your answer. I also noted that there were coronapas on the agenda this morning, and I have also taken note of the great interest of the business community in finding ways to make it possible to reopen, and we do, after all, share that wish. That is why my question to the Minister for Finance is really whether business is also concerned about finding other tools to reopen it could, for example. It is about being more careful to send infected employees or close contacts home, so that you have the opportunity to stop infection chains early and thus perhaps create a little more air for us to open other areas again. Is there anything in the pipeline in relation to how the part of the business sector that is open right now can contribute to that strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131822	Thank you for the question. My clear view of the Danish business community's commitment to getting Denmark through the crisis is that a huge effort is being made by them. When you go to the local supermarket, you can see the plastic gloves that are alcohol and there are markings on the floors. A very, very great responsibility has been taken. And it is clear that, in the context of the dialogue that we must have on the basis of the recommendations of the reference group, the dialogue that we must have here in the Folketing, and which we must of course also have with stakeholders, as well as in the context of the development of new technologies, are, of course, faced with new questions when we enter a new phase. And I have to say that what I hear, at least, and this is what the questioner probably hears, is that there is a very, very great willingness from all parts of Danish society that this is something that we have to deal with together, and that also applies to the business community. That is my clear view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131916	Then it is Mrs Karina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203131919	Thank you. I'm here instead of our health rapporteur, Per Larsen. Thanks for the speech I heard on the way down here. I was just talking to some high school classes from North Jutland, who were very, very frustrated about decommissioning. What I should like to ask the Minister here is: what has been gathered from experience with the closure of the business sector and the opening up again in relation to economic losses and, in particular, in relation to the pressure of infection? Because I heard the Minister say that it is not good if we just open and close again. Of course, we agree entirely with that. But what has been done about experience? It has been shown, for example. The restaurants opened up, and the pressure didn't actually rise. The restaurants had a lot of control when they had their restrictions, and the pressure of infection did not increase. So what do you have from business experience that you can take into this reopening strategy so that it is made responsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132015	My very clear feeling is that what is at the root of the recommendations of the reference group and the matrix chart, which we have all seen a great many times now, is exactly what the questioner is asking. It's experience, it's calculations, it's assessments, it's risk and other factors that you typically put into these calculations. That is why I firmly believe that the basis on which we stand now from the reference group is very solid and, as I said, is also the government's starting point and plan for further work. That is about what we are going to take on the dialogue that hopefully will come. Just to refresh it: The government has no interest in us keeping Denmark shut down more than is absolutely necessary. When we move forward, it must be done on a well-founded basis, and that is the recommendation of the reference group.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132112	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments, and after a despriting thank you for that it is the Minister for Health. There are 5 minutes available.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132137	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to my colleague for starting here. In the health sector, the situation is the well-known joy that we have had the infection knocked down, and we have also caused the number of admissions to be too low. We are now again under 500 admissions, a high level, but it is going the right way. But we are still in Denmark at the highest level of risk level 5 and this is because, as we all know, the mutations that we can follow are growing and the mutation that we are most concerned about right now is the one that has the name B 117, which has only been found in southern England. We know that in week 3 it amounted to 13%. of the positive tests, but we can see from the estimates made by our experts that it is rising dramatically and that in February it will take over control and by the end of February it will have about 80%. of the epidemic in Denmark. It is a variant that is more contagious and thus we have to prepare ourselves for that situation too, which is why it is absolutely essential to monitor that mutation, but also the other mutations, and I would also like to mention that we have now identified five cases of the South African mutation. All of them and their close contacts have been addressed in the tracing and isolation, but it is vital that we do not let go of the mutations because they have changed the rules of the game for our fight against the covid-19, the hard, long and also unpredictable battle. I just have to say that the people of Denmark have, to an impressive extent, complied with the rules in force here in a long and hard and cold and dark winter, but that does not mean breaking up the track. On the contrary, there is huge support for us to go through this in the best possible way. But we are still standing here in this critical place, where the mutation found in Britain in the coming weeks will take over, and therefore there are some unknowns in the calculation which may prove serious, and we need to take this seriously. The reopening must therefore take place extremely controlled with these needle-stick operations, which we have also discussed with the Danish Parliament's parties, and the first needle-stick operation starts on Monday, where the 0-4 classes can start again, starting with an assessment of what it is to start opening first, in the professional reference group which has assessed both the economy, well-being, teaching, learning, etc. and then the group of experts at the Statens Serum Institute, who has calculated how it will affect the pressure of infection to take this element and set it off again, and they think it's reassuring. As you can also see today, the SSI has published a number of math examples.I also believe that the Danish Parliament's Covid-19 follow-up group received oral information recently, and they have now also been published in public, and this clearly shows how quickly it can go straight up if you open up too much. That is why the task now is to cut it down, and that is to take the top points that lie in the chart from the experts, about what is next that makes the most sense and is most safe in relation to the pressure of infection and most importantly for society on the various parameters, and then cut it down in a way where you say that it and that thing should be counted on. And this can be done by the professional effort group deciding on the smaller bits to figure out from this chart, and possibly adding to what if you opened up to it here with these restrictions, possibly new restrictions, then this will mean the pressure of infection. Everything we can get from professional recordings, of course, we have to go. Then it is discussed with our reference group, that is, the group that has made the table, to make sure that they agree with that reading, and then it is sent over to the mathematical experts who can then count on it, and of course the follow-up group will be informed of this. I know that there are many wishes for a reopening in all industries throughout Denmark but there is also a great understanding that the situation is as it is. But everyone wants to be next, and I also think that in many parts of our society we think it is here that it is most important to open up, and it makes sense that this is of course the case, and that is why we have to go very carefully here, but also with professionalism, health care, calculations to the top, and the good thing is that we are in a better place than we did in the spring. We have a much larger test setup, and now we also have quick tests, a completely comprehensive new tool that we have with us, which means that we will be well prepared for the further steps when it comes to it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132647	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Martin Geertsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132649	Thank you for your speech to the Minister. It is true that this morning, quite conveniently just one and a half hours ahead of this debate, the SSI published an analysis of what would happen if the primary, secondary and adult education, secondary and secondary schools and all shops of less than 5,000 m2 were opened under one on Monday. You can discuss the usefulness of that analysis, can't you? But I think it is a good thing that the Minister is now saying that we cannot really use it for anything and that we need to do a little more specifically. I have two questions. Why is it that you haven't started it before? We asked about this the other day at our follow-up group meeting. I guess I can say that here and there was the answer that the calculations have not been made. So why haven't you done this before, so why haven't you started it until now? That is my one question. My second question is: when will they be ready?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132751	That is absolutely correct. After all, we all have an impatience, and we want as much data as possible, and when I say that we are in a better place than we did in the spring, it is because we know much more. At the same time, however, on some points we are in a worse place, speaking of my introduction to the speech. There's the mutation and the winter. There are things that make what we are in here now more difficult. But I can't stand here and tell you when these mathematicians are done. They feel the gravity on their shoulders, they sit and rain. We have gathered people from a large number of Danish institutions of knowledge, and they sit and count on these things. But they also have some reservations in their calculations, and their clear recommendation is that now there is room for the 0-4th class, and there is simply no room for anything anymore now and here. So we have some time, while that opening is going peacefully and calmly and comfortably, to calculate what should then be the next slices or the next slice, and when they are done with it, I leave them to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132855	Then it is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132856	Thank you very much. I think that the Ministry and the authorities should address some of the mathematics teachers who are sitting at home now and who do not quite have the same teaching because the students are at home, because then you could get a little help. This has been going on for months, and when we spoke about reopening, you could have had some plans in August, and when you started to shut down, you could have started to count on different scenarios. I would like to know, now that we have closed the entry specifically from the airport, what calculations are there for people who have been abroad taking a boat over the water or a car across the border or bus and train. What is the risk of a South African or a British mutation coming in that way without us realizing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203132947	I guess there's always a risk of that. I can't tell you if there are any calculations. I think we need to be realistic in the situation we are in here with new mutations. It is a new situation with a mutation whose contagiousness was only seriously documented late in December and which we do not even know yet whether it is more lethal. There are indications of this in the reports we receive from England; we cannot see that ourselves yet in Denmark, but it is the same mutation, so it may well be, plus there are a number of unknown mutations out there. Well, we can have a competition for who is most impatient, but it just doesn't help, because the situation is that there are uncertainties and that we have a society that is shut down. We want to open up as soon as possible, but it does not make sense to push through something that our health professionals and calculation experts are not quite sure they can stand up to, because then we risk opening up prematurely, overmortality, and the new control has disappeared.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133054	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133056	Thank you. And also thank you for your answer. I share the view that the calculations we are currently getting look like they're pretty accurate at least if you compare them with the same calculations we got a month ago, because that's exactly where we're supposed to be standing now, and that's what we're doing. So my question is more about whether we can do more. Can we prevent more by already ensuring that schools are able to ensure that classes are brought together in small groups? Can we at work encourage people to contain by ensuring that in our workplaces we also work together in small groups and go into the canteen in small groups, so that the chains of infection do not become so long and that we can precisely detect and stop the infection before it spreads too much? Are there new tools in the toolbox in that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133152-2	Yeah, that's exactly what it is. And part of that is precisely the way we organize the work and organise the courses, i.e. in smaller units. But part of it is also to draw up a quick test on it, that is to say to go out and get a quick test, just as almost all the members of the Danish Parliament do, I think, a few times a week I do myself. And that is one of the things we need to get used to as a complete matter of course. All this can help to stop the infection chains earlier and faster, and that's one of the things we need. One more thing, which is a crucial parameter, is the vaccination effort. As we get more vaccinations and as the vaccines begin to be effective, it's also something that has to be played in our mathematicians' calculations which also have some uncertainties about when we get these deliveries. As the Folketing also knows, they have been pushed back and forth, mostly backwards. Now we're working on pushing them forward. But it is also one of the things that needs to be included in the overall calculation example, which is why it is extremely complicated, but it is important that we do not compromise on professionalism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133301	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133302	Thank you. Yes, there are many mutations. We were told that there might be somewhere between 3,000 and 4,000 different mutations. I would like to ask two specific questions: the nightlife has been shut down since March. Has it been calculated what it will mean to open it up? And now I know that there has been a new variation in December, but it has also been 7-8 months until then. Did you count on what it would mean if you opened up the nightlife? The second question I would like to ask is quite specific: on 1 March a new epidemic law will come into force. In relation to these powers to shut down the country, is it true that they are actually being handed over to the committee set up, which then has to decide every four weeks whether these restrictions should continue?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133346-2	In relation to the very first point: it is true that we are dealing with a virus that mutates violently, especially when it jumps from animals to humans, but also in humans it mutates violently. It is not the case that we are concerned about all the mutations identified, but there are some that are more contagious and potentially more lethal, and of course we are extremely concerned about them. And these are some of the ones I have mentioned in my speech. In relation to the nightlife: Well you can see it in it from the reference group, which the parties have been presented with • so from the experts • where they put in the nightlife reopening. And there is their assessment, of course, that this is where there will be maximum pressure on the epidemic, that is, if you open up there. And that's why it's not what we've asked our mathematicians to count on first. That is simply not the first thing in the professional recommendation that I heard the parties fully support. Then it is true that an agreement has been made in the Folketing, and we shall vote through it on a new epidemic law, where there will be an epidemic committee which the government then consults.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133454	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133455	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. The Enhedslisten fully agrees that in the situation we are in right now, we are balancing on a knife egg. We know that the British variant is here, we know it is spreading in society, but we do not yet know the full pattern of infection in Denmark. That is why it is clear that it is absolutely crucial that we also have the opportunity at the Statens Serum Institute to sit and count on when there will be an opportunity to make a further reopening, and of course also get measured up in relation to what we know about vaccines. Now I asked the Minister's colleague earlier about what criteria we are putting in when we can see that there is an opportunity to open up. And, of course, I was pleased to note that it is also the government's view that well-being is important. But I just want to hear when it comes to prioritising whether it is also well-being that you give the highest priority. Because we know there are some school pupils, we know there are some who are going to graduation, we know there are youth students, we know there are students who are eager to get started and to be able to participate in a social life. Will this be the top priority in relation to what needs to be opened up when it has to be measured against retail and other matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133606	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133607	The top priority is, of course, health care, and I also know that Enhedslisten of course supports this. And then it's true that if you read the report and it's an incredibly good report that's made by the reference group, there's just well-being. There are also concepts of freedom, and then there's economy, and then there's epidemiology in this chart. As far as I am concerned, they are all very, very closely linked, not only the health profession, but also well-being and the economy. Because if the economy is going so badly that people lose their jobs, then it is also going to suffer, and so we cannot only see it as a point in the table. We have to raise our eyes and look at the whole schedule. That is why I think it is wise that we should get some slices of the various elements and not just count on one thing, but count on the various elements isolated from each other. And then you can look at: Where is it and how will you be able to open it? And then we can make a political decision when we're done with those calculations. It may be that there is a very clear way forward: this is the one that is right in terms of health care. Well, then I think it's just to do it if there's even an opportunity to open up. And if there are those who are absolutely equal, then we need to have a debate on what we are giving priority to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133714	Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133717	Thanks to the minster. And there is no doubt that day-to-day work is being carried out. Yet I cannot help asking: We have a lot of capacity to test, we have our quicktest. How much calculation and how long must it take before we find out if we can use the quick tests to send our young people back to post-schools and high schools and test again? I mean, if you go home this weekend, you take a new test. Our vocational training can no longer, they say, be opened up. We have plenty of room in the carpenter workshops. There are more than 2 m2; take a test and come back. In relation to our upper secondary education, we are not talking about coming back completely, but about a hybrid solution so that you can just enter one or two times a week. There are so many who fall completely behind now professionally and virtually. They are also very concerned about going to the exam and a few years' grades, because the quality of virtual education is not at all at the level it is used to. So what needs to be done to allow us to get young people back, and also those in higher education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133824	Well, what needs to be done is we have to keep this infection down. And then we get it in February that we can partly follow very closely what happens: Do the calculations stick in relation to the 0-4th class? If there's any more chance, let's take a look at it. But that is something that we must leave to our health professionals and mathematical experts. But there is a time right now, which is, I don't want to be accused of conjuring up scare pictures, but you just have to look quite a few kilometres away from Denmark's borders before you see countries that are close to collapsing under these new and much more contagious variants that have occurred in Europe. Remember that Denmark may be the country that is clearly sequencing the most tests, and we find these variants early. In other words, we do not really know how large the darkness is for the mutations in the rest of Europe. We can only see that death rates are going the wrong way, the number of hospitalizations is going the wrong way in a large number of countries. And we can't play games with that. We need to be completely safe and secure before we can open up more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133931	Thank you to the Minister, there are no more brief comments. After despriting, we move on to the negotiations, and hence to the general rules for short remarks. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Martin Geertsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203133949	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply to both ministers. In the Left, we believe that it is very important that we keep the infection in Denmark under control, and it has, by its very nature, been so ever since we became acquainted with Covid-19 almost a year ago. And so it is now, even though we see very low levels of infection, especially because we have some new insidious infections lurking both outside and within our borders. We in the Left have maintained the view over the last 10-11 months that we base the broad circle of health authorities' assessments on decommissioning or reopening Denmark. And when we have called for this urgent request, it is because we believe that we need to adapt ourselves so that we can live and function as individuals and as communities with the corona among us. And we need to have the proportions in place when we hold the coronasmint against the derived effects of the severe restrictions that we are all facing today. The proportion was also one of the reasons why a broad majority in the Folketing, all the parties of the Folketing, supported the opening up of the small classes to return to school, namely the fact that the families of children were being worn out by distrust. And that is why we are now telling the government that we need to move forward towards a reopening of Denmark. And the first step is to continue the work that has been set in motion in connection with the introduction of the small classes into school, namely to calculate the next re-opening steps on the basis of the recommendations already introduced by the so-called professional reference group. This means putting turbos on the calculations on the effects of spread of infection, hospitalization rates and also like other variables when it, for example, come to retail, private industry, education and other activities. And it may be calculations on the large blade in relation to calculations on the whole profession, but at least equally important also very much like calculations which go as far down in detail as possible in relation to calculating in parts of the business or education field. Secondly, we think that we should look at opportunities rather than restrictions. Right now, most Danes have got the impression a little squarely that now it is opened from 0 to 4th grade. They can come to school and we'll stop here for a while. We think that is too defensive a way of looking at things. As I said, we would like to see a look at what can be done using the many tools that we have, so to speak, got into our hands over the past many months. And here I am thinking, for example, of protective equipment, quick tests, distance requirements, social bubbles and other things. Could you, for example, do that? Imagine that a social bubble was made for the poor afterschool students so that they could go back to school and enjoy an otherwise very identity-building part of their lives? Could you imagine using the quick test tool in connection with the visit to the hairdresser? Could it be imagined that parts of the retail trade opened with super, super sharp distance requirements? In isolation, could it be opened to the 5th and 6th classes or graduation students if it was limited to every two days or every three days? Could one at all look at whether we could not, through isolated needle stick operations, have reopened, not all, but parts of Denmark gradually and in a health-care way? That is what we in the Left think. And may I conclude by saying that I have seen the latest publication of the Statens Serum Institute, on which we also had an exchange of views here before. And here it has been calculated on the effect of opening up to primary, secondary and adult education classes, open to post- and high schools and shops of less than 5,000 m2 at once, under one. And that knowledge is fine, but it fully confirms my point that we need to proceed with a more nuanced and balanced approach instead of everything or nothing. Then I have a adoption text on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, New Citizens' Party, Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG) and the Left: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament, on the basis of the recommendations of the trade union reference group, requires the government to immediately make further calculations and launch a re-opening plan for Denmark, including looking at the possibilities of involving tests in order to gradually relax restrictions on education, business, freedoms, etc. V 66)
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134439	Thank you. That will then be part of the further debate. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134446	Thank you. It's really just a question. I am glad that the rapporteur has just highlighted the additional note that we have just received from the Serum Institute, because these are some hefty figures that are being listed right now. And just to mention one of them, i.e. scenario 2, which the rapporteur himself has explained what it contains: it says precisely that there is a risk of a relative rate of infection for scenario 2 of over 4 000 daily cases of infection and over 250 daily admissions in early April. But scenario 0, which applies if we did not open, even for the small classes, says only that we will have a contact number of 1.1 also around 1 April. After all, these are extremely large numbers that we have to deal with. What does the rapporteur think about this, compared with the desire to open something more faster?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134544	I think I made an exceptionally balanced speech here today. Because I agree that the premise that we have to open everything on Monday under one does not make any sense. That's just why I told the government, in all silence, to put turbo on those calculations, which are not such over-all calculations, but which are some calculations that go into detail. That's point one. Paragraph 2: Then get involved with some of the learning we have had over the past 10-11 months, with quicktest and social bubbles, and what do I know so that we can gradually reopen this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134620	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134621	Thank you. I am also thinking that we can start to approach something sensible that we could do together, because in this way I share the desire that we also ask society to contribute more generally in the areas that are open today, i.e. that it may be better to send employees home who are close contacts; do not ask employees to come to work if they are infected, if they do not have symptoms; and in any case tighten the requirements. So it could be a common area of action in relation to that part. But I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that these figures are actually quite frightening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134658	Yes to the end, and the first is a deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134705	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134707	Thank you. I would also like to sign for a good speech, and I also believe that without bothering either the rapporteur or the rapporteur's party, I can say that it is certainly nice to hear that this is a very cautious approach in terms of opening up. For sometimes there has been little doubt about how much should be pressed on the accelerator compared to opening up. But I think it is a very sensible place for the rapporteur to say that the Left is here. But I would still like to hear a little bit about the fact that we are about to make calculations on how to reopen. What are the priorities of the Left in relation to this? It is true that we must allow health care to be regulated, but we will also have to make some decisions on priorities, on whether we are talking liberal professions, whether we are talking retail trade, whether we are talking school pupils, whether we are talking well-being, whether we are talking socio-economics. I would just like to hear what the Left thinks about this in relation to the priority of the rate at which we are going to reopen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134801	Well, at what rate? In other words, what I thought was in the rapporteur's question when I heard it at a start was where we are going. My starting point is, in fact, the one at the top of the reference group's recommendations. That is to say, there is what some people call liberal professions, which are not really liberal professions, but which are dictated like this, and that is the field of education, and that is retail trade. So that's kind of where we are. But what, like specifically, comes into play here must be very much based on the fact that the government gets started telling their authorities that they have to start calculating this. So it's like one part of it. And then there might be something where we do some needlesticks. If the government comes back here on Monday, to mention it as an example, and says: You know what, now we've just found the way to cap it in, and it might sound wrong, or found a method by which the graduates can get back to school then we say: then let's go with it. It is like the second track we would like to go down, and it is, in fact, somewhat independent of the recommendations of the reference group as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134904	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134905	When I ask, it is of course because we can see that there are enormous problems of well-being, especially for children and young people, and probably also some that are going to drag on for many years into the future with what they have been exposed to here. It is therefore only quite essential that it should also be counted as an important parameter, also measured against those things which, of course, affect the economy in the short term. But this is something that is going to have such an impact on future society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203134938	That's why I'm sorry, sir. Peder Hvelplund we have to look at this a little bit liberally in the sense that we have to try to see if we can find some flexible ways to do this. Does this mean, for example, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that some classes can be sent to school every two days or every three days, or what might be obtained from recommendations from the authorities could be done within such a health-care approach? That is my starting point, so I very much agree with Mr Beazley. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135009	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. There are no more brief comments. And after despriting, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135028	Thank you. The decision to shut down Denmark was about protecting the Danes from the corona virus. We've seen how bad things can go elsewhere in the world if you don't do it well enough... either if it shuts down too late or it opens up too soon. It affects our elderly, it affects vulnerable citizens, it affects health care, which can be overloaded, and ultimately it also affects the economy and employment. I cannot imagine anyone in this Chamber wanting to keep Denmark closed one day longer than necessary, but at the same time it is clear that a reopening must be based on a solid health professional foundation. Now we are offering vaccines to the population, and we are currently seeing fewer cases of infection than in the past. This is all quite positive. But it is far too early to let go of the tight steering. The virus mutates, and we have seen in Britain how fast it can go with infection rates that are rising and a health system that is overloading. And we also see a number of other very problematic mutated viruses. This must not, of course, happen in Denmark. The disaster scenario, as I see it, is that we open too early and too eagerly and then have to shut down violently again when the infection rate is rising and the health care system is overloaded. It does not benefit the fight against corona, our companies or those citizens who in every way feel the consequences of decommissioning. We cannot afford to go too fast. Last month, the professional reference group then submitted its report on reopening, and on the basis of the objective criteria of spreading infection, socio-economics, well-being, public health and individual freedom, it has been assessed in which order the restrictions can be relaxed, in other words in areas such as education, occupation, culture, sport and assembly. This is a thorough and serious piece of work and, of course, we must build on it when decisions are to be taken on the need to reopen society on an ongoing basis. As you know, the government has already announced that the youngest schoolchildren can return to school from 8 February, that is to say on Monday, just as the occupational reference group has recommended both because the risk of infection is limited, although we have to expect a certain increase in infection due to this, but it is assessed limited, and also because the positive side is of importance and very valuable for both the socio-economic and mental well-being. So this is the first step that has been taken. It is still too early to say what the next step will be. We still have a cold time ahead of us. Unfortunately, vaccination rollouts are not as fast as we would have liked, and there are many large unknowns in relation to mutations. However, as has been said, a re-opening of Danish society must take place on the basis of the order in which the reference group is established, and this must also be done with the involvement of both the parliamentary parties and the social partners, so that we have the best possible basis for making our political decisions. I have a text for adoption, I would like to read it out, but before I do so, I have also promised to welcome from the Radical Left, which is unfortunately prevented from being here today. The text of the adoption is therefore on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the SF and the Radical Left. Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament wants a sound re-opening of the health sector as the development of the disease permits. The recommendations of the Trade Union Reference Group, based on assessments of the spread of infection, the economy, well-being and freedom, as well as forecasts of infection rates and admissions, will form the basis of the decisions. The parties of the Folketing as well as the business and social partners are involved in the work. • V 67). I shall transfer the text of the adoption to the President of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135440	The proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. We have brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135444	Thank you. The government, then the Social Democratic Party, presented a proposal for an epidemic law containing forced vaccination. It poured the Folketing down the board. We said: we do not want there to be forced vaccination in that proposal. Now we hear today that some work is being done in relation to a vaccine passport. Can the rapporteur understand that there is someone out there thinking that this is a way for the Social Democrats and the government to de facto sneak in on a forced vaccination anyway, by the fact that those who have not received the vaccine cannot contribute and cannot be part of society on an equal footing with others who have received the vaccine?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135521	No, I can't. In relation to the whole discussion about forced vaccination as an option in an epidemic law, I would say that I have not met anyone who has thought that it was in any way relevant to discuss in connection with the management of the corona virus. But it is in current legislation, in other words in the current interim epidemic law. It was in the previous legislation. It is, in fact, nothing new in Danish legislation that there is an opportunity to forcibly vaccinate in extreme cases. It will then be removed in the coming epidemic law, i.e. the one that is now in the process of being adopted here and is due to enter into force from 1 March. So I think it is in the very opposite direction than what is alluded to by the New Citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135606	Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135607	I assume, therefore, that the government is putting forward the policy it would like to implement and is not presenting anything, because there has once been a different policy, historically, or otherwise it does not make sense. When we look at this vaccine passport, does the rapporteur think that it is okay that people who cannot tolerate a vaccine cannot participate in concerts and other things and that people who can tolerate a vaccine can? That is one question. The second question is this: what is the rapporteur's position that, in relation to having closed down nightlife since March, we have not calculated what it will mean to open it up again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135640	So, in the situation we are in now, where there are still schoolchildren sent home, where there are shops that, because they have to keep closed, are struggling with, what can be said, to stay alive, and where there are so many restrictions around there, I would say that it is not my first priority to look at ordering calculations of all kinds on when the nightclubs can stay open; not because it does not matter to anyone, but it is not a first priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135715	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135716	Now I was in such a good mood and thank you for your speech, but then I think that the rapporteur is still starting to get into the usual shatters when the rapporteur says that it is too early to talk about reopening, that it is a cold time we are living in and something like that. I have just heard the ministers, as I think they are, and I must give them a somewhat more positive outlook than I have heard from the two gentlemen at any time during this corona crisis. That is why I am so sorry if you have sent Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff on the platform to interpret the real text. So I just have to be absolutely sure what the government and the Social Democratic Party think about these things: Will the government 'cause there's been a lot of zigzag course, we have to be honest and admit that we have to put turbo on those calculations down in detail so we can see what that will make sense in the short run too? That's point one. And paragraph 2: Will the government set about trying to look at all sorts of tools in order to do needle-stick operations so that we can reopen the short track as well, for example. post-schools and other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135827	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135828	I am very sorry if I have ruined the good mood of the rapporteur of the Left. It was very little that needed to be done, I would say, if nothing else needed to be done. I am glad that the rapporteur is so enthusiastic about our government and can then be mad at the Socialist rapporteur instead, because then the division of roles is what it should be. I'm not the government. I represent the Social Democratic Party here today. However, on behalf of the Social Democrats, I would like to answer the questions about how we view things, but I am not in government, so I cannot answer the rapporteur of the Left as part of a government. But according to the calculations to be made, I don't think that's what I'm hearing, either. Martin Geertsen says that calculations have to be made on everything, because then we could do nothing but do all kinds of calculations, and when they were to be used, they would in fact be completely irrelevant because the situation had changed. But that is where it is relevant, and it is where the reference group points out that calculations need to be made. Then, at a relevant time, on an informed basis, we can make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135935	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203135936	Now I could be really, really worried if you can't really find out what is the attitude of the government and what is the position of the Social Democratic Party in this matter. What is just why I am looking forward to a little today is that this urgent request, if nothing else, has put the necessary pressure on the government to say that we will have to have those calculations also in the details so that it is not just those very, very broad SSI calculations. We will have to use the tools we have learned about and have experience with from the last 10-11 months in order to reopen Denmark bit by bit. Does the Social Democracy/Government agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140014	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140015	I don't think you can put a cigarette paper between the government and the Social Democratic attitude either in this area or in other areas. I am certainly not aware of anywhere where there should be a disagreement. But you still have different roles and different titles. To the question of what should be calculated: calculations should be made where appropriate, precisely because the calculations can turn out to be completely out of date quickly. A calculation made for one situation one month ago may turn out to be for a completely different situation if we just get a little further forward in time. So the calculations must be relevant and up-to-date.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140051	Liselott Blix, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140052	Thank you very much. The Socialists and the government would like to give the impression that we are just going to open everything up and that we are too careless and that it is our fault if it spreads. Should we not then try to see what we are afraid of at the moment, as the rapporteur has done? Other mutations come from other countries, and yet the borders have been armed. It is only now that legislation has been put in place that at least prevents it from happening at the airport. Do you not feel blame on the part of the Social Democrats when we see that many of the older people have been affected by the British mutation and become ill by it and that some of them have died from it? You have to take that on your cape because you haven't done anything in the past. How does the Socialist Health rapporteur feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140141	It is not my impression that other parties just want to open up here and there and everywhere, or that that is what this question debate is about. I certainly do not see it that way, and I do not see it that way either in the Danish People's Party or in other parties. It may be that there is a discussion and a disagreement about speed, but I see that everyone is fully aware of the threat we are facing and how important it is that we do not rush ahead. I am pleased that the government took the initiative and ended up also having broad support among the Danish Parliament's parties to be able to make restrictions, among other things. at the airport, where people come in trooping home from Dubai and other exciting places, so that we can demand that they are tested and demand that they go into isolation so that they do not end up spreading the infection to people who may be very vulnerable to it. So I'm glad we acted on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140245	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140246	What I am asking is whether the Socialist health rapporteur does not think that we should have acted earlier when we are so afraid of the mutations that cross the border. It has already been known, from the first time they talked about mutations, that there was something about it. It took too long to shut down some of those places. We already saw it a year ago when Chinese came to the country. That would not be the case, because the European Union decided otherwise, even though other EU countries started stopping for aeroplanes from China, and that is how we have seen it over time. Isn't it a little late? Shouldn't you have started something earlier?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140321-2	It seems like we're looking at the history here a little differently. My clear experience all the way through has been that very fast and very resolute action has been taken by the government every time a new threat picture has poped up. It's happened in relation to people coming in by plane. This has happened in relation to the fact that we have seen some come home in bathing sandals from Dubai and elsewhere, coronareder, and this has happened in all other areas. Every time there has been a threat popping up, I have seen a government that has acted very resolutely in the interests of public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140400	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140401	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. There is no doubt that the decommissioning we have seen has been absolutely necessary simply to ensure that we could maintain control over the epidemic; that we did not fall behind and experienced exponential growth. But there is no doubt that this has also had enormous costs, especially for certain groups in society. And back in the autumn we received the first reports from social organisations about the importance it had for both socially vulnerable but also children and young people's distrust and indeed increasing loneliness. That is why I just want to hear the position of the Social Democrats on this, as we are about to start looking at a reopening. What focus will you have on exactly those groups that have paid a huge price and where we will probably also see the consequences of the decommissioning that has been here for many years to come? How will the Social Democrats prioritize that particular task?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140458	The health crisis we are still in, but hopefully at the end of, has been expensive in terms of health, and it has been expensive economically, but it has indeed been so expensive in human terms. And I think it is very good that one of the focus areas in the work of the reference group is precisely well-being. Well, it's also about mental health, that is, that there is a focus on health not only the somatic health, but also the fact that there are groups, like Mr. Peder Hvelplund himself mentions, there's going to be a lot, much affected by the shutdown that's, that they're getting lonely and in every possible way suffering from this. It is also an important and central element. I cannot rank a sequence in terms of whether it comes before or after one, the other or the third, but I think it is important that it is a key element.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140602	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140604	But when I ask, it is also, of course, because the proposal for adoption, which the rapporteur read out, says that when we are going to look at the reopening, it must be done in cooperation with the business and social partners. I am rather surprised that social organisations have not been included too, because if we are to weigh it in terms of both the economy, well-being, infection and freedoms, then it is strange that we are only looking at some of the parameters, i.e. that we are looking at some of the parameters. I would also like to mention precisely the element that concerns the well-being of socially vulnerable people and children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140639	The Enhedslisten had been welcome to join in the proposal for adoption and provide input to it, also to the government here. That is a good point, and fortunately we are not limited by the words contained in the text of the adoption. We can, of course, allow other sensible and wise considerations to be taken into account in unfolding the reopening that needs to be done. Fortunately, we are not limited by just having to talk to the business community, the social partners and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140717	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203140738	We are in a serious situation, we know that. We also agree that there should be a slow reopening and that this should be done according to the recommendations of the authorities. We also know that the government wants our support for the actions being taken, but we just do not get the calculations that we are asking for. If we are to support the reopening or, for that matter, restrictions, we also need to be able to see into the calculations made by the government. We got a supplementary note this morning. There are two scenarios. One with what has been done now, with 0-4th class, and the other, scenario 2, where you put the graduation classes in primary school, you take afterschools, high schools, committee stores under 5,000 m2 together and calculate the risk. I'm sorry, I'm just saying. Couldn't you have done some simple calculations? I think most people can see that there is a big difference between whether you are a post-school student or, for that matter, an adult high school student who can take a test before you go there and get to school, where the teachers say that we can easily make groups, keep them separately in groups, for which I know the Socialist People's Party speaks a lot. I agree that you can do all these things and test and also ensure the safety of teachers. There they can live in a bubble, perhaps a big bubble, or in smaller bubbles in the bubble, while at home they are with their families, they see their friends, who are even some who get stuck, walk on the street, do all sorts of other things, because it is boring to sit at home. There's gotta be a way to calculate that. In the same way it is with many of the other things that have been added together. Well, what are those committee stores? Today we can go to Bilka, a huge place. I'm not going there. I haven't been there in a few months. I'm going to my little Bruges if I'm going to trade, because there aren't a lot of people, and you can actually limit that too. There is no control in the big business. There are businesses that want to be able to open up so that they take a few in at a time with the security that needs to be provided. There are, for example: The automobile industry. They're allowed to repair cars. People can also stand by and look at the car, but they can't buy it. I mean, honestly, something must be done so that we can make those little pockets and say that there isn't much risk here, while there is a great risk elsewhere. We would like to see a few more of those calculations. The Danish People's Party has this increasing intensity. There we have asked about the possibilities of creating more flexible restrictions, i.e. making these pockets of openings that would make that there are more that can also see the logic. Because you can't see the logic that you can't come in and buy this car where you're the only one I don't know how many people have been out looking at the car, but there might be a maximum. 3-4 pieces at a time in this huge hall with cars... while in Bilka it's just an infectious bomb no matter what. Where's the logic so people can see it? You have a job where you're one to one and deliver something to one. They're closed, too. But we're gonna pile it all up and do one big calculation. I think we could have had some calculations on that before. I have to ask some written questions, because I need to know how many mathematicians we have who sit and count with the authorities. Could it be made a little more effective so that we who demand it can have it? Time's fast up here. But that is why we hope that we can get what the Minister promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141156	There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141201	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech. I therefore share the rapporteur's wish as to whether or not we can just open something more than that, I think we all dream of that. However, I am surprised that the rapporteur so resolutely claims that the answer that has come from the Serum Institute this morning is only in relation to one more scenario, that is, an all-or-nothing scenario. As I read from the calculation that we have been given, in scenario two, the development of all the studied combinations will lead to sharp increases in both the number of infected and in new daily admissions, as in all sorts of cases does the rapporteur not think that it is an indication that many different combinations have been calculated in relation to the reopening?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141255	This is an extremely good question that we must ask the Minister. Because then we could know what the risk of infection was if the post-school students were going to school. Because we can't look at the paper we got this morning. Maybe they're saying they've done some calculations. Why the hell can't we see them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141311	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141312	I can't answer that. But I can answer by saying that I heard that the CDC itself said that it was actually quite complicated to do these calculations and that it took a long time. That could be one explanation. However, I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can not also confirm that the CDC actually stated one month ago that we would be in this place right now with a low rate of infection and a great difficulty in explaining why it was that we still had to keep closed off, but that this is why we are having a really hard time getting something reopened right now because we do not know how things are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141350	Well, that's correct. It is true that they say that by having the whole country in lockdown you can quickly figure out how many we are contagious, because we do not see any people. That's right. However, we asked as early as December: what is the risk of infection of schoolchildren or high school pupils going to school? We're not getting any calculations on that. And then the rapporteur says: 'Well, they have calculated that here; we can see that on the paper we received this morning. Why is that what we're asking for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141425	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, which is why it is now Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141438	Thank you. I love spring, and this year I miss spring more than ever, because the virus doesn't rhyme very well in warm spring, but it rhymes really well in cold winter months. With the prospect of getting more vaccines, spring's hope is that we can soon be seen with friends in a slightly more free setting; I think we are all looking forward to that. That is why I would like to start with an appeal that we give up the fight for who will first open what. There is hardly a single party in the Folketing that will keep a single area closed as much as 1 hour more than necessary. I am voting for young people, the elderly, for health, for well-being, for society, for the hairdresser, for the clothing shops, for the cafés and for all the other good proposals. I also miss a normal everyday life, but I also have great respect for the knowledge that we have about viruses: about mutations, about reference contact numbers, about relative rates of infection, about transmission, and what else we have learned and have had to relate to are the best chances of predicting the future. I am in favour of a kind of respect for the best indications of the development of the infection, and the best offer right now is that even without reopening we will see an increase in the number of infected people in February. With the best estimate, the reopening of the 0-4 class will increase the number of infected and hospitalized, but within the tolerance limit, while calculations for reopening other activity, to say the least, draw a gloomy picture, where everything we have achieved with hard work in recent months will be lost in a short time. But there's gonna be a day, and hopefully it won't be that far away. When the time comes, the SF will lean on the expert group's recommendations on how to reopen the country, taking into account health, well-being, society and the economy. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to challenge the government on further measures or perhaps more tools in the toolbox that can contribute to reopening. For although many of us experience society as closed, much is still going on, and that is precisely what is in progress that still affects the number of infections. The smaller the groups, the smaller the infection chains. That is why I am also pleased that the Danish Health Service has finally issued guidelines which state that when we are close to each other, we must go into isolation until we are sure that we are not infected. This applies to the bus driver, the cashier, but also to the health care staff. That it is difficult, we could see when a hospital in North Jutland had to send 40 employees home when they were in contact with an infected patient. Is it not possible to ensure good and sound care and treatment without involving quite so many people and thus risking infection by fewer people? The fewer contacts, the fewer infected and the shorter the infection chains. It's been important to the SF for a long time. However, with the prospect that the epidemic could well run the risk of stalling, it makes sense that we are using the decommissioning right now to also practise restrictions in a more open society, so we will take that with us in the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141806	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no desire for short remarks. Then there's only the cleaning left). Well, then there's the cleaning back. We're getting used to it. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203141821	Thank you. And it looks nice too. I have no doubt that, while living with covid-19 here in society, we all have a great deal of impatience for more normal conditions, where we have to gradually reopen society, where we can start to see our loved ones and our loved ones, where social life can resume, where children can start in school and young people on their education and where people can return their jobs. For the shutdown has huge consequences for our well-being • for how we get through the pandemic properly. The effects on everyone's health are marked: mental health, the well-being of children and young people, the well-being and quality of life of the elderly, our physical health, in relation to lack of exercise, no sports and team sports, lack of contact with others. That is why I think we all felt immensely pleased that on Monday we could have the health authorities' overall assessment that it was justifiable that the 0-4th class could be sent back to school so that they could get to friends, rebuild social relations, be challenged and get back to a more normal child life. But it was also, at least as far as I am concerned, a little with my heart in my throat, because it is absolutely essential that a reopening is done in a responsible manner in the health sector. If we have learned one thing from the corona virus, it is that it is crucial that we are always one step ahead. If we get behind first, it may take weeks to restore control at immense costs, both human, socio-economic and in terms of well-being and freedoms. When we hear the ratings from the SSI, there's no doubt that we're balancing on a knife egg. We know that, although both the contact number and the number of newly infected and newly inmates are relatively positive right now, the threat from the more contagious British variant is constantly lurking. We expect it to have taken over as the dominant variant in February, and that can change the picture completely. That is why it is absolutely essential that we keep control of the infection right now. I have an immense understanding of primary school pupils, post-school students, young people in upper secondary education, vocational schools and university students who long to get started with a more normal life, where you can meet, where you can talk to friends, where you can laugh, where you can play, where you can dance, get a social life again. I can guarantee that they will be at the top of the list of those we would like to open up again as soon as possible, because we know that it has enormous consequences, not only now but also for their future well-being, when we shut down so abruptly. But right now, and probably a little while longer, we just have to see that this is necessary, because gradual re-opening will have to take place on a health-care-free basis. For Enhedslisten, therefore, it is absolutely crucial that we first and foremost ensure that through testing and detection we break the infection chains, but also keep track of the development of the infection, and that, as soon as we get the assessment from the health authorities that we can now start to open up more, we focus primarily on opening up social activities, educational institutions, offerings to vulnerable and vulnerable groups. That must be the main priority. Then, of course, we need to focus on getting as many people vaccinated as possible as soon as possible. There we would like to see more active government efforts to ensure that production capacity at global level is also used to produce as many vaccines as possible. Because in a pandemic, the reality is that no one is safe until everyone is safe. Our opportunities to travel, to be a tourist, also elsewhere than in Dubai, to trade and meet partners in other countries depend on the fact that the rest of the world is also being vaccinated quickly enough not only in the EU but also globally. Our own re-opening plan stands and falls by being able to match up with future possible mutations, which only a rapid and effective global vaccination spread, including faster production, can do. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we are returning to drumming to explore the possibilities of increased vaccine production through emergency licences or suspension of patent rules through the WTO. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption. Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament wants a sound re-opening of the health sector as the development of the disease permits. The closure has major consequences for well-being, mental and physical health, especially in vulnerable and vulnerable. It is important that the re-opening focus is on these and that not only the business community and the social partners, but also social organisations are involved. • V 68).
ParlaMint-DK_20210203142307	That will then be part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203142312	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. I have a question for Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here one-and-a-half to two hours before this debate started, SSI came up with a publication which had calculated what effect it would have on the infection in society in general if, on Monday, both primary schools, youth and adult education, post-schools, high schools and all shops of less than 5,000 m2 were opened under one. I just have to ask: How does this seem to be a bit of leadership? Mr Peder Hvelplund (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Peder Hvelplund on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203142409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203142410	It is clear that the crucial thing in the situation we are in right now is how the British variant is going to develop in society, and there it is of course also important exactly what the pattern of infection is, not only in terms of how much it is contagious, but also in terms of mortality and how it spreads in society. A concern has been expressed in the past that it could actually hit younger people more than the previous variant. It doesn't seem so much now, but, in fact, we only know it when we start to see the effects of it spreading in society. That is why I can understand the impatience of the Left to get some clear calculations and like putting the corona epidemic on an excelark and seeing the exact consequences, but I just don't think that's where we are yet. That is why I also think it is sensible that the SSI should now focus on looking at how the infection spreads in society, and then it is clear that we will have to look at what concrete elements should be the first in a reopening, and there I have explained that it will be very much about the well-being of children, young people and socially vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203142521	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203142521-2	Thank you for that answer. I've heard what's going on, sir. Peder Hvelplund and Enhedslisten's approach to what should then be opened first, but would Mr. Peder Hvelplund somehow benefit from the fact that the government put SSI to count on that scenario instead of blabbing what Enhedslisten wants, along with everything else? That is my one question. My second question is: does Mr. Peder Hvelplund heard anyone in this Parliament say we have to open everything under one on Monday?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203142551	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203142552	To take the last one first: No, fortunately I haven't heard that. But in relation to the second, it is clear that we need to measure the precise consequences of reopening for different groups, but there we also need to have a sufficient data base for how the British variant spreads in society, because that is the prerequisite for making those calculations. But I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left that it is necessary to have the reports exactly as we were given for the reopening of the 0-4th class.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203142624	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Peder Hvelplund. There are no more brief comments. And I've got that's why it's so mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203142706	I feel this way about these questions that sometimes they can be good, and sometimes they can be so indifferent. Today I feel a bit like this: Oh, I am asking two specific questions. The Minister knows what I am asking, but chooses not to answer it. The Social Democrat rapporteur knows very well what I am asking but chooses not to answer it. Oh, come on! Then it doesn't matter that we're having these query debates. Well, leave it alone. But it's just a little bit... I ask you exactly if you've been planning on it since March, and then you get a long history of all sorts of other things. That's where the core lies in this. For some things in Danish society have been shut down since March • almost a year. Think of the traders, think of their lives: almost a year. Now you're told: Nah, we haven't been able to figure out what shut-down and open-up will mean. Then there are some who say: God, do you stand now and say that all nightlife must be opened now? No, that's not what I'm saying. But I have the expectation that one has bothered to sit down and count on its importance. Then it is true that a new variant has been introduced in December, which means that some other figures have to be included in this. But if you had done these calculations, these models, you could just put in the new number. Because that is not something that we have only had to count on now and here, where we have been shut down for a month since December. It is not something that should have been calculated in December either. No, when the government wanted to change the phases of reopening, where four phases of reopening had been agreed with the Folketing, the government went in early August and said: "We will not do that anyway. Why is it that we are not saying right away: what we are doing here is such a massive abuse and interference in the lives of citizens and their fundamental freedoms and the ability of business to run business, that we are saying: Wauw, we are doing this, and we are, of course, making people count on what it takes to open up so that we can get back to normal? For dear friends, what we're doing right now is not normal. The way we live right now isn't normal. So why didn't you sit down and do the math? And the minister knows that I've asked for it right, right. It may be so many times that you either start to ignore it or think it's a real pain in the ass, but I keep doing it. Because I think it's wrong that you haven't done this before. Now we are faced with a situation where it is about to be 1 March. We know that the government has extended these restrictions until 28 February, except for those which have been opened up here, and there may be changes, but that is what the general restrictions are being extended by. Then we enter March 1 March and a new epidemic law will come into force. And that means that these decisions to preserve the restrictions in society must now be put into a committee. And that means that it will then be passed on to the parties of the Folketing, as I have understood the epidemic law. Then it is the committee that has to sit and take decisions. I think it is every four weeks that we have to make an assessment of what has to continue, etc. On what basis should this be assessed? Stomach feelings? On what calculations should it be possible to do so? If we do not have calculations on what it will mean to let the students return to elementary school, how will we be able to decide whether or not to go back? That's why it's important to have these numbers and have this documentation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143114	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, Mrs Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143116	Yes, I promised the rapporteur on the way up that I would ask some questions. We agree on a great many things, but there are some things I need to know when we are talking about clear answers from New Citizens. We just made some restrictions on entry and testing etc. There I would like to hear where New Citizens stand, in relation to the Danish People's Party, for example. would ensure that all those who enter the country are tested and put into isolation so that we do not get the infection inside the country. How could New Citizen's strategy be in this area so that we do not spread the infection anymore? You want to open it all? Do you want the borders open or do you want to close them or what do you want to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143155	No, we don't want one thing or the other there, and I don't think DF will either. I still believe that there is the problem of migrant workers, for example. works at the hospital in Aabenraa. I haven't heard that DF wants them to be tested. But there's a good way to do it. If you don't trust these countries to which people are going to test them properly, then you could just require mandatory testing when they enter the airports, and you would have tested twice. Then there's a greater probability that you'd catch it. But then there is the fact that healthy people are being quarantined by people who are completely living up to the demands that we, as a society, have made. It's with these tests that we measure whether you're healthy or you're sick, and then we say it may be that you can prove that you're healthy, but yet we give them what corresponds to a conditional ten-day prison sentence in their homes. They can even get a fine for it. There we think there are some things, but we would like them to be tested when they went out, and also when they went in; we have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143259	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143300	I can promise New Citizens that in the Danish People's Party we want a border with border guards so that we know who we are letting into the country, and it is the same with migrant workers. We also want them to be tested when they come from Eastern Europe and have to enter a place of work, as we saw with, for example, the situation. slaughterhouse workers who then infected others. This meant that we had to close all professions in Denmark. But it's very nice to know where New Citizens stand. Because you wouldn't. I guess you didn't agree with the agreement that people should be tested either. New citizens say it's fine that they come with a test from other countries. Yeah, they did from Dubai. What was it worth? Nothing. So how will New Citizens then do with the rest of the reopening? Is it just opening up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143342	No, I just said that we voted yellow on that proposal because we believe it can be resolved in that way, that if you do not trust those countries down there to test them, you can test them when they get to the airport and then they can get an answer there. It's not like it's just opening up. That is, of course, a very specific answer to what we think about how to test.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143402	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143402-2	It is not at all to interfere in the border war between the New Civil and the Danish People's Party. I'm not gonna get stuck in that. It's something else entirely. Now we can understand from the government that you will finally start making calculations that are targeted at professions, if you will even hopefully • hopefully, that is at least what the government says • go further into the funnel and make very, very targeted calculations. So focused, you can do, in relation to the effect of various reopens. Period. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen and I have together participated in incredibly many follow-up group meetings over the past year, and I remember it as if we have asked the same questions on many levels. And I just want to say: Lars Boje Mathiesen at any time at the follow-up meeting heard the government say that we would like to make those targeted calculations for Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and to Mr. Martin Geertsen before now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143500	Now there have been so many meetings. I don't know if I remember everything that's been said on them. I would very much like to reply. I love to answer as I can, but I am in fact in doubt here about what I must refer from in relation to such meetings. That's why. I'd really like to answer that. I have also said myself that I have repeatedly asked the government to do so. But I am simply in doubt about what I have to refer to here. I'm sorry, but I just don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143525	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143527	Let me ask you another way: does Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen was given the calculations at any time, so Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen in public saw calculations from the government that have gone very focused on this before now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143539	No, I haven't. And that's what I've been looking for. I can answer that in concrete terms. I think it is strange, because there must have been some calculations earlier. The normal thing is that our children go to school, and therefore there should have been evidence that our children could not continue to go to school, so you could say that you couldn't handle the infection if there were 0-4th class. Now you've rolled it back. I'm glad. I never think that schools should have been shut down because there was no evidence of this. Overall, I wonder why, in May of last year, when you could do some phases about what you developed, you could not have taken them forward. So I'm wondering about the lack of documentation, absolutely.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143620	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143621	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It was certainly a repeat of the fact that it cannot be true and that there must then be an opportunity, a path we have not seen yet, a way we can do things. It is a statement that is repeated over and over again. In relation to calculations, I would like to say to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, I would just like to ask: with the report we received on Monday, on 24 pages, with a very thorough review of what reservations are being made about the calculations, would the rapporteur feel absolutely sure that we could take needle-stick decisions on reopening when you have some parameters that say that between 650 and 2 000 new cases of infection a day by 40 or 110 daily admissions on 1 April respectively? Well, that's the range just for the 0-4th grade. Does the rapporteur think that in some places we are able to make calculations that can make it so precise that the rapporteur actually believes that we can also take valid decisions on reopening some places right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143731	Yes, I do, because otherwise there was no reason to ask them to count on it. What they come out with, I can't say anything about yet. But if you didn't think there was a point in getting these calculations, then there was no reason to start the work, so of course I mean it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143744	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143745	But it is being repeated over and over again at the follow-up group meetings, to which the rapporteur himself refers, that there are so many uncertainties. That is also what appears to be the additional note. There are so many uncertainties; there is so much knowledge we do not have. We don't know how B117's gonna develop. We don't know what the effects of the vaccines are on us to continue with infection. There's a lot of uncertainty that means we can't get these calculations. Does the rapporteur not recognize this or does the rapporteur have some others who can do the calculations that give us fast-tracking knowledge of what we can open in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143821	Nor did they have the calculations as to whether it would work to shut down the schools nor did they have any evidence of this. When last summer we let people come back to the afterschools and opened up the restaurants, there was no evidence that you could do it either. So there are a whole series of ideas that this Parliament and the government have only made decisions on the recommendation of the health authorities. Oh, I think it's a dangerous path to go down after the last report, the big, thick, green, has come, right? Then I think you should be very careful to say that you are slavishly following what the health authorities say. There's always an insecure element in it. But that's why it's important to get these concrete, explicit calculations. What about e.g. outdoor football? Do you even know if it has an effect that we have shut down? No, you don't. But we shall know it; otherwise we shall not have shut it down.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143906	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203143907	Thank you for that, and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and I am pleased with the remark that no reference should be made from the covid-19 follow-up group meetings. Because I have sometimes had the impression that the words had barely come out of the Minister's mouth before they could be read online in B.T. Or on TV 2 news. But it is certainly a good thing that we have an agreement that we do not have to refer so eagerly from them. However, I would like to continue a little where Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen escaped, because once we have closed down, it has happened on a health-care basis. Because what we know to work is to reduce the activity in society. We cannot go in exactly and say whether it is retail, whether it is the building markets, that is, where exactly we have the effect, but we only know that reduced social activity has an impact, and that is also what the reference group's report shows. But when we get the numbers from SSI, we're told every time they're incredibly insecure. The same was true in relation to the reopening. New citizens then had no difficulty in saying that we had to open up, even though the figures were so uncertain. Well, then, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen not an understanding that you can't just make a calculation and then say that's how it is, because there are so many unknown factors?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144020	Two things: I absolutely share the frustration that meetings cannot be held. In fact, I have also made that point to the Minister on a number of occasions. I have actually begun to document and have documented to the Minister that I have not opened my e-mails with these documents before the end of the meeting, simply because I would not have shot in my shoes, that I was responsible for it. So I can promise that I share the frustration so much that I have taken the step that I felt, because I think it is unacceptable to do so. So I fully share that. On the other hand, I have no idea that there's gonna be a conclusion on this. There has never been, and if you think there is, you have not heard what these authorities have said to all these meetings. Because these are forecasts, and it always was. When all the parliamentary parties, including the Enhedslisten, adopted the four reopening phases, it was also based on forecasts of how it developed, how many people thought it would be hospitalized in intensive care, it was actually a much higher figure than what we have now, and this was agreed at that time last year. So it's all based on forecasts, it's the best forecasts you can get, and then you make a political decision, and then you have to stand by the consequences it has.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144124	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144125	Well, that is exactly what it is, and that is also why it ends up being a political decision at the end of the day, and that is why I do not fully understand Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen's frustration that we can't get those calculations. 'Cause I don't know what these are. Well, what exactly is it for some calculations that could say that now we can open up? If you look at the reopening here from 0 to 4th grade, it is incredibly uncertain. That is because there is a strong political desire to open up, but we are doing it, and that is why I say that I am doing it with my heart in my throat. Because there is some uncertainty about it. So what exactly is that, sir? Lars Boje Mathiesen imagines that you can make?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144201	Well, the same math you did in May. We then received a report which showed what would happen in the course of the development of the infection if we opened in phase 1 what would happen in the course of the development of the infection if we opened in phase 2, phase 3. Then we got calculations on it, and where are they? Then it is clear that if one then estimates that one can say that within this probability it will mean that and so, if one let people get back to the post-schools, it has to be assessed in relation to the rate of infection that is now and where it will end up there. But you have to look at: What is room in it? What's the possibility? However, the approach whereby you say that you cannot open anything up until you have no infection in society at all anymore is quite untenable. At least that's not a way I'd run politics. Fortunately, on 1 March, the parties of the Folketing will begin to be accountable to the decisions they made about the reopening. Right now, they've just been able to pass the monkey on to the government, and I think that's actually pretty bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144251	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief remarks, and if Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen just wants to say that the next rapporteur is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative People's Party. And we have just over 15 minutes left of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144316	Thank you. As you know, the consequences of the covid-19 are great and unpleasant. The children have been sent home from the schools • Fortunately the small ones will return on Monday • Afterschools are empty, the high schools are likewise, and what should be an unforgettable experience for life from youth education, from vocational education, from universities and academies with both learning and education and, not least, the establishment of new long-term friendships has become teaching behind screens alone. Hospitals have reduced the capacity for treatment and investigation of non-covid-19-related disorders, which will inevitably result in undiscovered and thus non-treated diseases in time. It may be cancer that is not detected in time. We have seen examples of this here in the spring, which have had fatal consequences. As a doctor said to me recently: we cannot save the good lives when we have to, because we push a hump in front of us and we do not have the capacity when we need it. We also know that our elderly people have been severely affected by the visitor restrictions, as well as those who live in municipal and regional settlements, and we can continue to do so. Many of us have also been hit on physics now that fitness and training opportunities are reduced, and we ourselves are behind a screen. I've had a bad shoulder of all that screenwork and static screen work myself. Then when we come to the economic consequences, the companies, the restaurants, and Copenhagen around us are completely deserted. Unfortunately, many of our companies will go bankrupt, and they will have their life's work destroyed. Others may be able to reconstruct and move on slowly. The aid packages have been a huge help, and fortunately we have had a solid economy here in Denmark that could do so, but it cannot replace the daily operation or turnover. You're on artificial breathing. That is why we need a re-opening plan based on clear principles, targets and priorities, that is to say a plan for a safe reopening, so that the education sector and the business community are given some pointers. This is very important. We are, of course, a knowledge-based society, but unfortunately the government's management of the corona does not bear this in mind. They will be put in the back of the queue and especially our higher education. That is why, together with the other bourgeois parties, we have tabled a text for which we hope a majority can be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144604	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the acting Finance Minister who rounds the debate. As the honourable Members will be aware, we shall conclude the question at 1 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Here you go to the acting Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144628	Thank you. May I not start by thanking you for a very good debate. If we are to try to find a common denominator for us who have been on the platform here today, I think we can say that it is a matter of course that there is a great deal of interest, a great deal of concern, but also a great shared responsibility to ensure that our small country gets through the serious crisis that we are facing now as safely as possible. This applies both to dealing with the terrible health crisis with the many victims, but also to the economic crisis, which, unfortunately, also has many victims in the form of far too many unemployed people and too many companies that are having a hard time in which some of them have turned the key. The debate feels that you have a great shared responsibility for all of this to be as minimal as possible. This is very important. When we look at the very large decisions we have taken together, we have to say that these are quite crucial and, indeed, impressive decisions that we have been able to make together. If I take mine, if you will, for a daily cap on as tax minister, I can say that we have given liquidity to Danish companies and thus also ensured that employees' jobs are maintained in the order of 470 billion. kr. That's a huge amount of money. And on Friday, as some may remember, there were 170 billion. kr. extra, which was given to e.g. small and medium-sized enterprises, but also large enterprises, which are also challenged. We have, across boundaries here in the Danish Parliament, but the most of all, in cooperation with those with whom we have made financial legislation, led an expansive fiscal policy which has helped to secure up to 80 000 jobs by 2020. This is absolutely crucial, because when you look at how Denmark has got through this crisis and hopefully we continue the strategy • yes, then it is based on a very, very broad consensus here in the Danish Parliament, and although we can discuss and the waves can go high every now and then, I think that when decisions of this nature are to be made, we find ourselves together. I think that is excellent, and I think it is extremely important that this debate also confirms the joint responsibility we have. We all know that we will continue to make major decisions, both of a health nature and of an economic nature. So it is incredibly important that the community we have around the decisions can be maintained, and that is why it is also important that we have a good starting point for taking the discussions on the important decisions. The recommendations of the reference group are the basis we have for it, and that will be the basis for the discussions which will, of course, be with the Folketing of the next steps. When they arrive is determined by one thing: our ability to deal with the infection and its spread, and that is why it is incredibly important that we continue to stick together to combat it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144948	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203144951	Thank you. The Minister talks a lot about the decisions we have taken together, but there are also a number of decisions that have not been taken jointly, that is, with which the government has gone. Of course, you can sometimes get such a suspicion that the government is pushing the health authorities ahead of you, in other words pushing the health authorities' recommendations ahead of you. Can the Minister tell Parliament in this debate whether it is true that the government has not always listened to the recommendations of the health authorities, but has made a political decision, that is to say that it has looked beyond the recommendations of the authorities? That's one thing. The second thing I would like to hear about is our business. Now we are faced with a camping season which will start soon, in March, and I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on the campsites and the reopening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145100	I mean, we are politicians and we make political decisions, but of course they are based on professional initiative and decision-making. The recommendations and analyses of the reference group are quite a good example of this. When it comes specifically to campsites, some of them are large, but there are also many small and medium-sized enterprises between them, and they will be in a situation where they will be able to benefit, for example, from the VAT loan scheme that has been set up. Today, the Danish Tax Office has actually opened up the possibility of borrowing interest-free for 10 months, I think it is, the paid-up A tax and the labour market contribution that was due to be paid out in the early autumn. This is something that also benefits Danish business. Overall, if you look at what has been done by schemes, there is a liquidity improvement for 470 billion. kr. So not everyone has been used. But a good example is the VAT loan scheme we made in the spring, where the framework was approx. 40 billion. kr., and it was drawn approx. 7.5 to 8 billion. kr. On. So it's being used, and it's having a lot of effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145206	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145208	Yeah, but that's not what I asked. Well, I just wanted to say that in relation to the whole minkskandal, it was the government's decision to resign that office. The second point I want to hear about is again in relation to the campsites, because how do I understand the Minister's reply? When we open the camping season in March, at the end of March, what is the situation of the campsites? Can they reopen, or will there be restrictions? There are many who do not understand that you can go to Bilka and shopping centres, but that the small shops, which have actually had a number for how many there must be in the store, must keep closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145248	So, as far as restrictions on explicit professions are concerned, I think the right thing to do is to ask a written question and then you can get a more or less precise answer to it. However, in relation to the economic conditions, it is, after all, small and medium-sized enterprises that we have most of in Denmark, and I certainly believe that the arrangements we have made, such as interest-free loans, help them. If the questioner looks at the scheme launched last Friday, then it was interest-free loans for the two instalments of VAT due in March, i.e. a very large amount of billions. You can borrow interest free for up to 10.5 months. It is something that helps small and medium-sized enterprises that they can wait to pay it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145335	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145337	Thank you for that, and thank the Minister for Finance for answering on behalf of the College of Government here in the end, as I understand it. Shouldn't we agree that the SSI publication that came here earlier in the day and where, like the whole retail and educational sector, you have smacked together in some explanation of what would happen if you opened everything here on Monday, like is a saga just? And I'm telling you now because, as I understand it, it's on the order of the Ministry of Health. I simply do not see the value of such publication now and here, and I shall hear it, because I understand that we agree that there must be a flexible reopening of Denmark, whether we do not agree that such publication has a very limited value. So that's the one thing I want to ask. The second question I would like to ask the Minister for Finance is whether we agree at the back of this debate that what is needed is isolated reopenings and these are several flexible reopenings based on many of the tools we have come to know over the last 10-11 months.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145445	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to say that I am going to cut down on one brief point, because just a few have signed in. We're going to be 15. Martin Geertsen has asked for 1 minute to round off, so there is only one brief comment for the few that remain. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145502	So it is not for me to interfere in the communication efforts of the various authorities. My impression of the SSI is that they are doing excellently, and they have been an exceptionally skilled, appreciated authority in handling this, which I in no way, and I hope no one would, would have missed. That is why I have no reason to criticise anything for saying what it is. As far as the strategy for reopening is concerned, the government's line is very clear. It is the reference group and that dialogue will be taken with the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145545	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145546	I therefore agree that the SSI has done a good job. There might have been a little slip around the minks, where you didn't agree with the government, but leave it at that. I would like to hear, because there has been some disagreement here about this reference group, whether the Minister can just confirm that what they have done is not a priority order. So, they have set up some different scenarios with four different segments, and then there has to be a political decision on what it should be. It is as if it has just become apparent that they have now made such a sequence that we politicians will probably need. But is it not true that it is not a sequence they have made, but assessments within four different segments, and then it is a political decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145626	My view is that the basis established by the reference group is certainly an excellent basis for the discussions that will take place in the circle where this is being discussed. It is based on different weights and therefore also different recommendations that if you are in x situation, what you can so y can do, and I feel quite comfortable about that. And it is not to talk about much more, but I would just like to say to the rapporteur that I am quite sure that those discussions will be taken where they are to be held.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145659	Thank you to the acting Minister for Finance. And then the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Martin Geertsen, just a few minutes to round off the debate. Here you go, sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145718	Thank you. Thank you very much for the debate and thank you to the Ministers for having contributed to it. I very much agree with the acting Finance Minister that it is very talented staff we have in the SSI, who in fact only does what they are asked for. And what I understand is that the Ministry of Health has asked the Statens Serum Institute to do a calculation that slaps everything together, and they say that if you did it here on Monday, that is to say in relation to retail and education and the whole quadruple at once, then we would have catastrophic disease development. So it's not the employees of the SSI I'm criticizing, it's the Minister of Health I'm criticizing. That is why I am saying to the two ministers: are we not going to agree that the calculations we are making are, for the future, some we can actually use for something, that is to say that we are going to have some calculations that are targeted on different types of industry, different areas, and much as far into the funnel as we possibly can, because we are in agreement on paragraph 2, namely that what we are going to do in the future is to do needle-stick operations like what we did for the 0-4th class, that we are gradually opening up, that we are opening up flexibly, and that this is what is going to happen in the future? For the alternative, what the Statens Serum Institute so far set out and at least calculated is, and on which I have little taken the view has been the attitude of the government so far, i.e. such an all-or-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. And I think that's a very inflexible way to look at the reopening. So we just have to do the same thing that we had actually started with. And that is why I think the conclusion to this is, and which I think is nice that we have dragged the government around, that we are saying that we need to have some more precise calculations and that we need to have a flexible re-opening strategy. I think that is the conclusion and we in the Left are pleased that the government has listened to the good advice from the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145919	Thank you. And with that collection, we thank you for the debate. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I have said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203145936	I have to inform you that there has been a questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt (DF) at Question No. 1 (S 828) to the Prime Minister. The first question is to the Prime Minister, and that is what Mr. Peter Skaarup of the Danish People's Party with enquirer Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150001	Please read the question out loud, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150004	The question is this: Does the Prime Minister think that the government has spoken untruely to the people at the press conference on 11 March 2020 when the Prime Minister said that decommissioning took place on the basis of the authorities' recommendation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150025	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150028	As you know, this is a question which I have now had the opportunity to answer quite a few times in this Parliament, not least in the consultation of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on 9 June. I explained that in the last days up to 11 March, when the infection rates increased explosively, the Statens Serum Institute estimated that we were higher up on the infection curve than we had thought a few days before, and that with the speed of the infection spreading, things could go really wrong in Denmark. The State Serum Institute therefore considered that it seemed the right time to put in and break the infection chains while minimising unnecessary activity. Against this background, and in the light of the advice received by the government from other relevant authorities, including the so-called AC group, the government took the political decision to shut down large parts of the community activity. The decision to close down and the details thereof was a political decision. This was the political action and implementation of the overall advice of the authorities. I would like to make it very clear that the government did not at any time wish to disclaim responsibility for decommissioning, on the contrary, and I do not agree that the government, in relation to the decision on decommissioning and the many other decisions taken last March, should have left the impression that the government's decisions based one on recommendations from the health authorities or other authorities, for that matter. That was not in any way what was meant by the phrase, it was not the message at the press conference or at the next many press meetings, for that matter. Here the government and I repeatedly stressed that the government's decisions were the expression of a political choice, that the government adopted a precautionary principle, that we would rather do too much than too little and rather act too quickly than too slowly. I stand by that completely, and that is probably one of the reasons why Denmark has relatively managed so well through this crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150221	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150222	Thank you. And thank the Prime Minister for his answer. On Friday, we received the report from Professor Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen, who has examined exactly what has been going on around the press conference and the prelude to it, and he says in this connection: "The way the Prime Minister communicates does not reflect the facts. What is the Prime Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150254	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150255	I am in the same position as I have been doing all the way through and as I have just explained here: what advice we have received and what political choices we have made, by the way, is a political choice that I am extremely proud of. Had we not made the political choice on the day of 11 March, there would have been many more sick Danes and, unfortunately, many more dead Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150315	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150316	The Danes understood this, and that is also what the Prime Minister said it was on the recommendation of the authorities that you shut down, that you shut down the schools, and it was not now asking the Prime Minister again: How does the Prime Minister really feel about it? We have a group that has been set up by the Danish Parliament and that has worked through everything about this case that tells the Danish Parliament that it was not on the recommendation of the authorities. What is the Prime Minister's position on this? Will the Prime Minister complain to the public that people were being deceived?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150353	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150354	I think that the premise for that question is quite wrong. I do not think anyone in Denmark has doubted that closing the country was an expression of a political decision. But it was not a political decision that was taken out of the blue. It is taken on the basis of the advice we receive in the days up to 11 March. Moreover, it is also taken on the basis of something else, because we see military convoys and military vehicles picking up the bodies in another European country because the situation there had not been eased by then. That is why we did what we did on 11 March. I really hope that the Danish People's Party will support the decision taken on 11 March and, moreover, continue to support the need to control the epidemic in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150440	Thank you. Then it's the enquirer, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150449	Yeah, but that's not what this is about, I'm gonna tell the PM. So what this is all about is that a bar has recently been put in this Parliament for how ministers communicate and what they say to the Folketing, partly to the public. Well, now it's not sir. Peter Skaarup or me, who states that what the Prime Minister has said to the public and thus to the Folketing is just untrue. I mean, it's a professor who's been sitting by all the rules of art, going through things and seeing what's been said, and whether or not it's the same thing that's behind it when you look at the SSI and so on. And there it is just the quite sobering statement of Mr. Jørgen Grønnegård, that the way the Prime Minister communicates does not reflect the facts. There is certainly not too much to ask for the Prime Minister to regret that the way the Prime Minister has communicated did not reflect the facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150544	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150545	It really seems strange to me that every time I exchange words with the Danish People's Party in the People's Party around the global pandemic, the Danish People's Party says whoever it is from the Danish People's Party that it's not about the global pandemic, it's about everything else. That is simply the basis of this dialogue, and I disagree with it. We are in the midst of a thundering pandemic that kills thousands of people, and if we do not have good pandemic control in Denmark, it will also kill too many Danes in my view. That is what has been the government's starting point all the way through. Furthermore, I do not share the premise contained in the words of the Danish People's Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150624	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150625	We are glad to say that in war the truth is the first victim, and that is why we must agree with the Prime Minister that she is clearly in a war. And it's at war that we support her wholeheartedly that she should win. But the fact that you are in a war against a pandemic does not mean that you are allowed to lie and speak falsely. Therefore, it is still relevant, regardless of what the world looks like, to find out whether the Prime Minister will regret that the way she communicated did not reflect the facts, especially in view of the very, very high standard that this government has set in relation to previous ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150700	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150701	First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party is fully and completely joining the fight against covid-19. That is very, very good because we are not through this crisis yet. With the mutations we see, the pandemic thunders out there, and in my view we must do everything we can together to keep control of the situation in Denmark. I do not think that one should sacrifice the truth because one is in the midst of a global pandemic that will never be my recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150735	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150739	It seems that the Prime Minister has forgotten what the Prime Minister said to the Danes on 11 March. Now I will try to read it out here: "Therefore, it is the recommendation of the authorities that we shut down all unnecessary activity in those areas for a period of time. That's what the Prime Minister said. We have subsequently been told by a professor that the recommendation of the authorities did not exist. It did not exist from the AC group, it did not come from the NOST, it did not come from the health authorities. Wouldn't the Prime Minister be sorry when she says something that is untrue here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150823	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150824	The advice we receive up to the press conference quoted here is that social activity must be minimized in order to break the chain of infection. It is not least in this light that we act and communicate as we do on 11 March. In addition, may I add that I think it is rather violent to take a few lines out of all the communication that is going on from a government along the way in such a crisis. I can say, for example, that on 15 March I said: 'In the end, when decisions are taken so far-reaching for a society, it is, of course, a political decision, and I am entirely in favour of that. I have said from the outset, and I would like to repeat it today, that I would rather we go one step too far than the other. We have not at any time, as a government, let through the fact that this was a political decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150921	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and the Prime Minister. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that has been asked by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150934	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150937	Thank you, President. Why did the Foreign Minister, during Question Time on Wednesday 20 January 2021, claim that the EU investment agreement with China does not provide for the liberalisation of access to the European labour market or changes in the visa regime, when the agreement will clearly facilitate access for specialised labour to the European labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203150959	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the question. I would like to start by pointing out, as last time, that the text of the agreement is not yet in its final form. There may still be changes in the legal review. I disagree with the questioner in his characterisation that the agreement should open up Chinese access to the European labour market in general, as was in the original question. That is not a correct presentation. The provisions now highlighted by the questioner are merely a matter of narrow access for specialists and managers who, within specific rules for specific investments, have temporary access. They are also people who move within the same company between China and Europe, for example. from a parent to a subsidiary. That is, of course, the point of investment agreements, namely to make mutual investment easier and more attractive, but I still do not think that there is any coverage for the questioner's premise that the agreement will facilitate access to the European labour market in general. If sir... Mr Messerschmidt would like a detailed account of the possibilities which foreigners' legislation might already offer for the categories of persons concerned, so I must refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151118	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151120	Thank you, President. What the Foreign Minister said when we met here a few weeks ago was that this agreement does not provide for the liberalisation of access to the European labour market. It was not a question of whether it was a general character or a narrow character. It was just so generally in the sense that in the Danish People's Party at least we are quite concerned about, if you start to open up to large numbers of Chinese labour, knowing that there are huge problems with especially specialised Chinese labour. Many Danish companies report problems with industrial espionage etc. I do not need to repeat to the Foreign Minister the whole debate we have had on, for example. Huawei. What if Huawei comes and says that they have a whole lot of specialists that they would like to place in Denmark, isn't it true that under Article 6bis of this new agreement they will be able to do away with the ordinary visa rules, without the general rules that apply to Chinese labour? That is what is at issue here, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now, unlike 14 days ago, we have had access to read the agreement and, with the permission of the President, I will just read it out. It is only available in English; I will translate it afterwards: The permissible length of stay shall be for a period of up to niney days in any twelve months period for business visitors, for establishments purposes and up to three years for managers and specialists. So, the legal length must be up to 90 days in a 12-month period for company visitors and then up to 3 years for managers and specialists. And specialists are then defined just above that. 5 in this article is a wide range of people who are involved in a Chinese company. So it is a very, very broad group of people who have the opportunity to send to Denmark, to Europe, to the European Union now, bypassing the ordinary visa rules, and that is why I just have to repeat the question: why did the Foreign Minister say 14 days ago that there was no liberalisation of access to the European labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151324	I said at Question Time on 20 January that, according to the Commission, the agreement does not provide for the liberalisation of access to the European labour market or changes in the visa regime, but largely follows the same approach as today. The Commission says this because the agreement is not about the free movement of labour, but about promoting investment. Therefore, the provisions are precisely limited to the intra-group secondments of the investor for a narrow group of highly qualified staff and for temporary stays. The aim is therefore not to open up access to the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151401	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151401-2	However, what is stated in Article 6bis, paragraph 4, last sentence, which lists what is understood by specialists, is again and again, with the permission of the President, people who are familiar with the company's production, research equipment, techniques, processes, procedures or management. So it is production, development, technology, processes, procedures and management. I do not think there is a Danish word for that, President. Is it not a very, very wide range of people who can now enter the Danish, European, EU labour market without the ordinary visa rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151440	At the risk of repeating myself, the provisions are precisely limited to the intra-group secondments of the investor for a narrow group of highly qualified staff. Moreover, the agreement states in black and white that I quote the article does not apply to measures affecting natural persons seeking access to the counterparty's labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151503	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151503-2	What does that mean? Does that mean there won't be any Chinese after this deal? Natural persons are, after all, unlike legal persons. But does this mean that this has to be understood in such a way that no Chinese come at all? What kind of workers are we talking about if they are not natural persons? Are those robots, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151522-2	I hope that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt listens to my answer because I have given the answer at once. This is because the agreement is not about the free movement of labour, but about promoting investment. Therefore, the provisions are precisely limited to the intra-group secondments of the investor for a narrow group of highly qualified staff in temporary residence. The aim is therefore not to repeat myself, but I have said that a few times now. I should also like to refer the questioner to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, in relation to the categories of staff concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151600	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, with whom we continue, because the next question is Mr. Naser Khader, who asks questions to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151630	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151632	Thank you, President. Much has happened since I sent the Article 20 question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs last Friday. The Russian opposition politician Aleksej Navalnyj was sentenced yesterday...
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151647	Excuse me, sir. Naser Khader read the question out loud? Because that's the first thing. First, it is the question, then the Minister answers, and then Mr. Naser Khader the word afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151700	I will. Does the Minister think that it is sufficient to open sanctions against Russia? The Minister may have a better knowledge of Russian power politics than I do, but I am curious to know whether threats have worked in the past with Vladimir Putin. How does the Minister think that the EU has dealt with Russia's violation of human rights and the rule of law? Does the Minister consider that the sanctions in force are sufficient, or does the Minister think that the EU should change course and take a tough stance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151738	That is just not the question I have on paper here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151747	A lot has come up since the last time. But then I take the question sent to the Foreign Minister: will the Minister answer how the government intends to confront the Russian President, Vladimir Putin, so it is clear that Denmark condemns the Russian Government's use of force against the opposition, including the now imprisoned Aleksej Navalnyj, and will the Minister at the same time explain how the Danish Government plans to put pressure on the EU to impose new sanctions on Russia? And there are many more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151818	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203151821	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. I am quite sure that I understand what the motivation behind the important issue is. The arrest and now the imprisonment of Navalnyj is totally unacceptable. I have also reported this clearly from the Danish side, which has also been followed by a clear condemnation by a single European Union. Unfortunately, over the past two weekends, we have seen that the Russian authorities have hit hard on major national government-critical demonstrations. The suppression of critical voices and the restriction of freedom of expression and assembly are extremely worrying, unacceptable and not the way forward. That is why my clear condemnation and clear call to Russia by the European Union as a whole is to release Navalnyj and the peaceful demonstrators as soon as possible. The common EU line is important when it has to be said from the point of view of Russia. I have also stressed this to the High Representative of the European Union, Josep Borrell, who is going to Moscow tomorrow to meet with the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov. I have emphasized from the Danish side that the meeting is precisely used to make our position clear on the matter, just as I made it clear and expressed in cash the position I had at my meeting with Lavrov last year. As you know, I also pressed for the introduction of EU sanctions in connection with the toxic attack on Navalnyj. One unit and six senior persons, including the FSB commander, two vice-defense ministers and President Putin's Deputy Chief of Staff, succeeded. The Government is therefore also prepared to actively support the introduction of further EU sanctions in the case of Navalnyj. However, I would like to stress that sanctions are not an end in themselves, nor should they be the only instrument in the toolbox. It is equally important that the European Union actively supports Russian civil society. We must stand with the people and stand guard over democratic values and report consistently so that the Russian people have no doubt about what we stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152020	Thank you. And then, sir... Naser Khader 2 minutes to elaborate the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152024	As I said, a lot has happened since I sent Article 20 questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs last Friday, which is why there are many questions. The opposition politician was sentenced yesterday to 31⁄2 years in prison in Moscow, and he is now serving 21⁄2 years in a penal camp. According to the judgment he received in 2014 that is the reason why he was convicted yesterday he had to report regularly to the Russian authorities, and for good reasons he could not do so when he was tried to murder him and he was treated in Germany. So the prison sentence to the opposition politician yesterday triggered violent demonstrations in Moscow. Thousands of people walked the streets and there were clashes between police and demonstrators. We could also look at social media. 1,116 were arrested, and it was really hard in Moscow and St Petersburg. Both the imprisonment and the sentence yesterday have been condemned, among others. from our Foreign Minister, from the European Union and internationally, and this brings me back to the question: does the Minister believe that a tweet in which more sanctions are threatened is what impresses Putin?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152154	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader to also raise this issue in the Chamber today. I think it is extremely important that it is quite clear that the Danish Government and also the Danish Parliament are strongly opposed to the treatment that is being given by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Navalnyj and the peaceful demonstrators in Russia who use their freedoms to demonstrate against corruption and for democratic development. As I mentioned earlier, we are ready from the Danish Government for further sanctions against the people responsible for the repression of Navalnyj, the imprisonment, just as we were demanding sanctions following the toxic attack on Navalnyj last year, when we got the European Union to impose sanctions on entities and people from Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152237	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152238	I mean, when something happens, when democracy defenders fight totalitarian leaders, it is extremely important that change comes from within; it is extremely important. So my wish is not that we go in and interfere violently with that we should leave it to them but it is extremely important that they can feel that we have sympathy with their protests and that we are strongly opposed to imprisonment. And that's why they need to know that we're actually on their side. So what I want to ask is: is the Danish Government and the EU countries going to make something more concrete out of some sanctions? Has Germany said that we will stop North Stream 2 until he is released? Or is there anything similar in mind that impresses Putin? Because it does not seem that there is much that impresses him, i.e. when you are just threatening sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152339	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152342	I fully agree with Mr. Naser Khader in that sanctions cannot stand alone. It is also about concrete support for civil society, for the people, for journalists who are subjected to attacks, for people who are imprisoned for no legitimate reason just because they use their freedoms. The European Union must be united in showing that it is not the people of Russia that we have a problem with, but those in power who limit their rights. And we are willing to look at all the instruments in this regard, as I said, further sanctions, but also how we can support civil society more actively on the part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152417	Then it's mr. Naser Khader for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152419	Well, I'm glad to hear you say all the instruments. Is it also true to put pressure on the Germans to use Nord Stream 2 as an instrument for the release of the opposition politician?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152434	Now Nord Stream 2 is not an EU-Russia thing, and I think that the position on Nord Stream 2 is well known, i.e. my position and that of the government. We are opposed to this. We do not think that we should make ourselves more dependent on Russian gas, but it is not something that the European Union and Russia have done; it is Germany and Russia. So I'll leave it to the Germans how they'll react to it. However, the European Union must use the instruments we have, the toolbox that we have, because we must stand unequivocally on the side of freedoms and the people when fundamental abuses are being committed, as we see in Russia these days and weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152512	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to Mr. Naser Khader. The next question is to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152525	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152529	What is the Minister's view that almost one in four prison officers has disappeared since 2012, while the number of inmates in prison has increased to the highest number for 10 years, and what will the Minister of Justice do to secure more prison officers for the country's prisons in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152549	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152550	Thank you for the question of the lack of prison officers in the department of justice. Let me start by saying that we have a major challenge in criminal justice with too few employees for an increasing number of inmates. This is something that I am focusing on, something that the Folketing has a broad focus on, and this is something that stakeholders outside also focus on. Our capable prison officers are currently making an extra effort, and I think there is reason for us to recognise and appreciate this, but it is also clear that the criminal services staff are very tense and that far too many prison officers today are experiencing and, incidentally, meeting the diagnostic criteria for Ptsd, and there is absolute reason to take this seriously. That is why I have also asked the Directorate for Criminal Services to launch a series of initiatives to help improve the current ptsd effort. This applies, among other things, to: a strengthened preparedness, follow-up after incidents in the service and initiated preventive psychological agreements, as well as a new personal contact scheme. I also know that criminal services are working hard to strengthen recruitment, among other things. through intensified recruitment campaigns, and in 2019 we opened the extra educational institution in Vestdanmark. In addition, in the autumn, the criminal services launched a series of actions called emergency measures which, in the very short run, can help to relieve the strain on the situation in the criminal services, among other things. to relieve the prison officers. Detectives are currently working on several emergency measures. All in all, of course, I look forward to those steps, but I also believe that the recognition must be that it does not solve and will not solve the underlying structural problem, which has grown large in the field of criminal justice over a number of years, and that is why, of course, we also need to work for the stockpiling and manning situation as one of the key issues of the forthcoming multi-year agreement that we are going to enter into this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152759	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203152800	Thank you. And thank you for your answer. After all, this is a matter that we have now turned around a number of times, and when I choose to take it up again in this Chamber, it is because new information is constantly coming to light on how problematic the situation is. A great many prison officers are under intense pressure, both physically, in that the relationship between prisoners and prison officers is quite wrong, as these new figures show, but also psychologically, as the Minister of Justice himself says. After all, we made an agreement back in 2017 between the then government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, where we set aside 0.25 million. kr. It can be said that we have not yet achieved our goal. On the contrary, I have the impression that the situation is increasingly under pressure. That is why it calls for something radically different to be done. One of the things that would be obvious in our optics was to say that we are reintroducing wages in education. It's probably the case that if you're going to think it's interesting to be a prison warden, you might not have just finished primary school. So, you have to have some sort of resilience in life, probably especially mentally, but maybe also but not necessarily physically, and that typically means that it is people who have been on the labour market in some sense that then says: Now I want to go in that direction. And the fact that you do not get paid is a huge change in your daily life, because you simply have to plan to change your life radically. If you have been used to having a car, or if you have children, i.e. if you have adapted yourself as an ordinary person in a comparable situation, then it is almost impossible. That is why it could be a way to go, so that more people, if they are interested in working like this, do not see it as a direct obstacle because their economy is simply not connected. Therefore, it would be nice if the Minister of Justice, at the appropriate request, would indicate whether he could look in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153007	First of all, I would like to say that I share the description of the good people who apply to the prison service education, namely that it is, at least compared with our police students, people and, fortunately, also a part of them, at least the times I have been present who have some more experience of life, and therefore I also share the view that they can be in a situation where coping in su can be difficult. That is also why we have said that this question of pupil pay is one of the elements that will be included in the negotiations on the forthcoming agreement on criminal justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153046	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153046-2	Of course, I'm glad. Another thing you could do when we're standing and brainstorming is about: One thing is getting more prison officers, but you could also get fewer inmates. A few weeks ago, we had the opportunity to discuss this failure to comply with the agreement on the country of origin of other EU countries. I have also had the opportunity to read it now and, as I read it, there is really nothing wrong with the agreement itself. If you have been sentenced to a prison sentence of more than six months, countries have a duty to take people home. Could it not also be that we should intensify it, Minister of Justice, simply to ensure that at least the Eastern Europeans who are in Danish prisons do not fill up and make life stressful for our prison officers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153132	It is also a relevant issue and, as I remember it, I am actually called in consultation on precisely that issue, so that I have the opportunity to respond to it in depth, I am sure. And it is true that one of the elements on which we are working is that we are dealing here with unconditional prison sentences, where there should preferably be six months to go, that is to say, that are not. After all, there are also some procedural steps within our own systems, and I actually believe that some of them, if they could be reduced, would be suitable to ensure that there are more who will be served in the country of origin. It is certainly a common wish to ensure that there are more people serving in the home country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153209	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153210	Then there is, of course, agreement on what we can do. Then it is only a matter of taking action. And then I just want to know if the Justice Minister of the many prison officers who sit out there might give a perspective on when some of these things are gonna come true? Because even if we live in a country where there is relatively high confidence in politicians and in the system, etc., if we compare it with other countries at least, then everything else might equally have a mistrust that is about it being just words and words. At any rate, this is something I very often experience when you point out a direction and say: yes, yes, come back when there is some action. When does the Justice Minister expect action to be taken to improve the situation for our prison officers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153249	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153250	But in reality there are more elements in it where one of them is: what can we do in the short term? There, extra money has been set aside in the Finance Act to meet some of the challenges. That's what you might call a Band-Aid on the wound. In addition to this, however, it can be said that where we really have to deal with the structural problems is in the context of the multi-annual agreement to be negotiated this year, which, of course, organises the economy for the coming years. One of the reasons why we are facing the problems we are currently facing is that the existing agreement was on the expectation of a stocking rate of 96 per cent, as far as I remember, and we are now over 100 per cent, and that leads to these structural problems, or at least to some of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153324	The question is closed. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and the Minister of Justice. The next question, Question No 1, by Mr Vandemeulebroucke: 824, is for the Social and Senior Affairs Minister, and it is submitted by Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, also from the Danish People's Party, is a co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153348	Here you go to Mrs Karina Adsbøl to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153351	Thank you. Does the Minister think that children should be given the opportunity to abolish a compulsory abortion which they themselves have not influenced, and if so, how old must the child be in order to get it right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153407	I fully agree with the questioner that older children should have the opportunity to seek an adoption lifted if it is essential for the child. However, the child already has that opportunity today. Children therefore already have the opportunity to influence their own situation, and they must continue to do so to the greatest extent. Once an action has been initiated for the termination of an adoption, the authorities are obliged to examine whether the termination of the adoption is the best solution for the child. To illustrate the child's best interests, the child, the adoptive parents and the original parents must be heard and, of course, the child's opinion must also be emphasized. The authorities will then have to assess whether it is best for the child to withdraw the adoption. This is essential in order to continue to care for the child. The questioner suggests in the question that children are not heard in cases of adoption without consent. That, of course, is not correct. When the child reaches the age of 12, the adoption shall not be carried out without the consent of the child, unless there are special circumstances. Where the child is under 12 years of age, information on the child's attitude to the intended adoption shall be available to the extent that the maturity of the child and the circumstances of the case so warrant. And the decision must take into account, as far as possible, the child's attitude to adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153522	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153524	Now it is the case that we are aware that there are very, very many mistakes in these children's cases, and there are very many mistakes in the children's conversations, where we know that children are not being heard and that their words are not being weighted. So, in relation to the legislation today, I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that, when the state wants to impose an abortion or the authorities, it will give more rights to children in the form of their being able to withdraw their adoption if they so wish. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of how it can be difficult to have the adoption withdrawn, including the fact that one has to obtain the consent of one's adoptive parents. So is that what the government wants to do? Another thing I think one should focus on when talking about forced abortion is how the government will ensure that it is in the best interests of the child that a child is forcibly adopted and that it does not become a piece, a financial incentive, for the municipalities. Because it is the case today that the government has put increased emphasis on relaxing the rules on forced abortion in this proposal that the government has made, and when choosing to forcibly adopt children, how will the government ensure that it is in the best interests of the children and that it will not be an economic incentive? Because one might think so after the government's initiative, even in view of the fact that there is not so much money to approve the government's proposal. Now I hope there will be a long debate on this, because we certainly do not agree with any of the elements the government has played out with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153719	That was a lot of things at once. To start from behind, I think that economics are included. Well, that's over 760 million. kr. Lasting a year, we will raise that area with. I do not remember seeing this under any of the governments that the Danish People's Party has helped to hold in power. So there is economics with the initiative we have put forward by the government, which is, of course, about giving children stronger rights. That is why we are not going to change anything by the fact that it is not the municipality that decides adoptions, because there should not be an economic incentive in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153754	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153755	Then I understand from the Minister's reply that the Minister is not concerned that there may be an economic incentive in this. Well, I'm certainly worried, when we look at forced abortion, that in a municipality like Lolland there is an increase in their attitudes to forced abortion. But if we now know that today's legislation says that children's words must be weighted and children must be listened to, what is the real difference between what the government brings in? What will the legislation look like in relation to the children's voices? Because you have to be careful not to pass all the responsibility on to a child.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153834-2	I would like to say to the rapporteur and now the rapporteur has said several things, for example. I would also like to see specific examples of this from the rapporteur. Then it's easier to relate to. And when it comes to pointing out to Lolland and saying that Lolland should speculate on the economic benefits of adoption, I just have to say again to the rapporteur that it is not Lolland's municipality that decides whether a child should be aborted. This can only happen if it is for the best of the child, and it is not the specific municipality that makes that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153909	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203153913	Thank you, President. When I have chosen to be a co-questioner with Mrs Karina Adsbøl here today, it is because I am not really a politician, but as a citizen in the last year's time, more in contact with this part of the system than I think people normally want and experienced a system that is under very, very intense pressure. There are some very, very long processing times at the Family Court House, and there is a strange trend in many municipal decisions where at least it is not always possible to see that it is the best interests of the child that have been involved and so on. And since we have a government which, both before it became a government and while it has been a government, has emphasized a great deal that one wants to be the government of the children, it is not too much to ask: what are we really going to do to remedy this situation? And that is both in relation to forced abortions and so on, but also in general terms in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154013	First we can take the long waiting times at the Family Court House, which has nothing to do with the play-out • The children First and the placement area. After all, in both the financial laws we have been able to make so far as government is concerned, we have set aside three-digit millions of dollars because that system was born underfunded, and I agree with the questioner that this is extremely unsatisfactory and a huge problem and, above all, for the children who get in trouble. In relation to processing times, case pressure and, of course, to the mistakes that Mrs Adsbøl rightly points out, among other things. We hope to be able to get the support of the Danish Parliament's parties that the new Children's Law is less processive than the current legislation, and we will have all the legislation brought together in the Children's Law, but we will also have some of the extreme process regulation that is in this area removed, so that the case workers out there will have time for what is most important, namely work with the children and the families who need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154106	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154109	Thank you for your answer. I fully understand that there are different systems and that it is not the Family Court that deals with these matters. But very often, as a family, you want to be in touch with several elements, which is why I think, in general, when you look at the pressure that the system is under, that it is relevant to ask. It is, of course, the best interests of children, the concern of the child, which must be the essential thing, and when you are a citizen in such a system, you can be struck by powerlessness, especially if you are not among the most resourceful in society. So I would like to know how the Minister envisages changing these structures more specifically. It is easy to say that the administration must leave, that we must have confidence and so on, but quite specifically how?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154159	We have, of course, had some very good experiences from a number of free municipalities that have been where you can say that the case workers and the social workers who are dealing with the family and children's cases have been freer and have been able to see how it has produced really, really positive results, and we will be presenting what I think it is next week to the rapporteurs who will be negotiating from the parties. I don't know if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's company, but at least I expect Mrs Karina Adsbøl to come, and we hope that the whole idea and the practical experience we have gained will be able to take part in these negotiations. And it requires something of us as parliamentary politicians that we will not go into detail as much as we tend to do, but I think we can go quite far with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154240	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154246	Thank you. Now the minister says that there are no savings for the municipality, because it is the Ankestyrelsen who decides it. However, can the Minister not confirm that if a municipality suspends the compulsory abortion of a child, there are some savings to be made in relation to preventive initiatives, and there should also be no remuneration paid in relation to a foster family? So is it not the case that there will be a saving on this in relation to the municipalities in relation to forced abortion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154322	Thank you. But what the rapporteur is asking is quite factual. However, if there should be an incentive for the municipality to make a decision on adoption in order to save money, then it requires the municipality to make that decision, and so it is not, no matter how many times Mrs Karina Adsbøl asks about it. The municipality is doing the preparatory work. The municipality is responsible for the children and for the families, but it's not the municipality that makes this decision. It's the Anke Agency, and we don't intend to change that from the government. Because we, like Mrs Karina Adsbøl, believe that it is important that there is that arm's length so that this cannot be a question of financial cash thinking. Adoption should only be in play when it is the best for the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154358	Thank you. Then that question has been answered. But we continue with the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly and the same questioner, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154409	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154411	Does the Minister think that a child's voice should also be weighted if the child does not want to be placed or if the child wants to be returned?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154419	I could be extremely brief, because I could just answer yes, but let me add a few more words to it anyway. I believe that the child's voice should be weighted in all matters relating to placement and return. When we say on the part of the government that children must be more involved in their own affairs, in other words in their own lives, that is true in all matters. We mean it when we say that children must be at the heart of decisions, and that is what it is all about. We could not dream of suggesting that certain decisions should not involve children while others should be involved. In fact, our proposal, which lies somewhere here under the papers, is exactly the opposite: the child's perspective must always be in focus and always be guiding, both in explaining the child's needs, in the stakes and also in the follow-up that must be afterwards. We want to give the child a stronger voice. We believe that today they are far too vulnerable and alone, especially in cases where their interests conflict with those of biological parents, and who is going to speak up in the system today? That is why we want to see, among other things: strengthen the child's voice by giving it the status of the party as early as the tenth year. In other words, if a decision has been taken on the placement of the child outside the home in the Committee on Children's and Young People's Rights, then the child has the opportunity to complain about the decision. The child must be informed of his or her right to see the case and to comment on the case, and the child is entitled to free legal advice. The government is basing its proposal on figures that show that we are not at all good enough to involve the children today. For example: About 40%. of the children and young people at 12-17 years of age who are at risk answer that they have not been informed of their rights to influence their own affairs, and more than one in four find that they have no influence on the decisions of the municipality. Those figures make it very clear to me that we need to turn the legislation upside down here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154625	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154626	Well, the fact is, Minister, that today we have the Children's Reform, and the law says that children must be heard and that their voices must be weighted, of course, depending on their age. But now the government wants to add to it. Well, the fact is that the law we have today is not fully implemented in the 98 municipalities, and then you build on top. So the Minister did not reply in the previous question as to what the law would look like. The second point and the background to my question is that the government on page 13 of its proposal says that one should have a second opinion when a placement is rejected or changed. It is not always the municipality's children and young people's committees agree with the management's professional attitude that a child should get away from home. That disagreement may mean that children who need a new and safe home will not have it. Or that a child is uprooted and sent home to the biological parents against the professional assessment. Why, then, is it that you do not have a second opinion when children, for example. will not be placed? Or why is it only when the child has to leave the family that you have to have a second opinion? I'm surprised that you kind of put up with it in the game. 'Cause I guess it's both ways, huh? Or is it only when you disagree that a child has to leave home? Or how is that to be interpreted in relation to the government's proposal? Unfortunately, we have seen some cases of attachment time and time again. I remember the Michael Lambert case myself. There was a documentary about a foster child who had always lived with his foster family and who wanted to live there and stay there, but he was uprooted and had to go to an institution, which means that no connection had been taken into account or anything else. So how much of the connection is there in this play? I mean, the attachment of children means a great deal, and today we see children being refused to be with their grandparents and their networks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154835-2	First of all, in relation to how badly we manage to hear the children today, and Mrs Karina Adsbøl says that we will now build on top: Well, in reality, we want to do something fundamentally different. I think it is every year that the Danish People's Party is calling for a question debate here in Parliament, where we are discussing why the nice words of the child's reform have not become reality, and it tells me that we need to do this fundamentally differently. Therefore, there is a brand new Children's Law, where these children are given more rights and where it is quite clear that the child, the involvement of the child, is first and last in every case. So this isn't about building upstairs, but it's about trying to get this knuckle-down as the crucial starting point of the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154919	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203154921	Okay, but the minister didn't answer that, because it's basically about the law not being observed as it works today. That's what it's about. It's about the child's reform not being properly implemented. That is what it is doing, among other things. Oh, okay, okay, okay, okay, However, the Minister did not reply to what is in the Government's proposal on page 13, i.e. second opinion when placements are rejected or changed. Why do I ask the Minister? It's only about getting away from home. Then you have to have it. Should there not also be a second opinion when it comes to being forced to live outside the home? Why is it only one way to go? The Minister may give an answer to that. I would just like to say in relation to the previous question we had, that there is therefore a documentary about a young girl who is trying to withdraw her adoption, as I think the Minister should see.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155009	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155010	Please send me information on specific matters that I should like to take a closer look at. That is not something I know in advance, and that is why I cannot say anything about it in this Chamber either. But when we talk about giving the children party status, they saw among other things. If you have the right to appeal, it is one of the things that follows in relation to decisions in your own case. After all, it is not only in relation to placements, but also in relation to preventive measures that the questioner asks about, which may be family support, contacts and other matters. So it is not only reduced there. When it comes to second opinion and the attachment of children, I have to say that time has passed, but I will have to answer that next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155047	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155054	What really concerns me here is precisely the question of how to involve the rest of the family, and I can also see that there is a very large difference in practice between the attitudes that then come from the municipal social services. In other words, when you talk to a perhaps 10-year-old, an 11-year-old child, it may well be that the child can put into words what does not work and is not good at home, but as a child to have an attitude, and that you even ask the child to take a position on what then can be very, very difficult. Do you want to live with your grandparents? Is it an older sibling who will take responsibility? Or should it be a whole new family? That is why it is really good to have a good play and set for a second opinion and party status etc. etc. What is my concern or interest is how it is going to happen in the real world. Well, how do we make sure that the child not only gives some answers to what she wants, but is also able to understand the seriousness of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155205	I believe that as a society we have quite, quite a lot to learn in relation to child involvement and to get the voice of children out, and that is why I am also pleased that in an almost completely unanimous Parliament we New Citizens were not with us, but all other parties before Christmas agreed to allocate funds to a knowledge centre for child involvement and the lives of vulnerable children. Because it's hard to admit that I would very much like to admit to the social workers who are in this situation every single day to involve a child in a gentle way, to allow the child to talk about his own life without the adults putting away responsibility. So there is no doubt that there is work ahead of us here and that part of it is simply also about getting the professionals who have to sit with this properly dressed to be able to do so. Then at the beginning I heard the questioner say a lot about this, about whether family and networks can fill more. One of our suggestions is that we should expand the possibilities of becoming a network care family, so that more of the adults around the child, whom the child knows, should be able to be considered as a foster family. Yeah, I thought I heard the questioner about it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155312	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155313	Thank you for that, and we will take that confirmation with us, and Mrs Adsbøl will then take note of that, because it will be her who comes to the negotiations. One of the things that can be a challenge is, of course, if, when the whole process takes place here, we have to do with what can we say • often resourceless families. When the family moves across the municipality line to another municipality, does the experience found in the first municipality follow? How will the government ensure that this happens, that is, if, for example, it does so? a parent in one municipality has been found unfit to lift parental responsibility, so also being communicated to the new settlement municipality? Because otherwise you can run away from this responsibility all the time, and then it's the kids who get left behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155400-2	That is a very correct consideration. I think, of course, that some of the saddest children's cases in the history of Denmark, which must have sat down with us all to some extent, have been on the basis of it, that is, families who have moved just before the children would otherwise have received the help they needed, and thus have allowed children to grow up under a framework that is not for children, to put it mildly. This has been tightened up in both the child's reform and the abuse package, but I will also be very open to discussing with the Danish People's Party whether there is any further that we can do. Some of this is, of course, about the fact that the caseworker must also have enough time to pass on information and demand information from the municipality from which you are from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155443	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155448	Thank you. The Knowledge Centre was one of the things we raised in the negotiations on the reserve, and in the Danish People's Party we have also made proposals in the past that you should of course look at the resources of the network so that the child can maintain his or her contact with his or her network. However, when the Minister says that it needs to be strengthened in relation to the quality of the case, we in the Danish People's Party believe that quality assurance is lacking. There are a lot of social science estimates, and there are a lot of errors and shortcomings, you might say, in action plans and in section 50 surveys. How will the Minister ensure the quality and legal certainty of matters relating to families and children?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155534	Thank you. I look forward very much to the meeting I hope we have next week. I look down at my secretary-general, and I do not know if it has been called, but it is the idea that we will have a meeting next week, in which we will review the experience of the free municipalities and, moreover, also the results of the coal-mining of the rules in this area, which the government and the KL have made together, and which I think all give us some really good hints about how the Barnet Law should be arranged in a way so that the social counsellors and the case workers out there have time for the families, for the children, for the proper procedure, where the children are heard, where the families are heard, and where it is not a long list of procedural requirements that need to be ticked off first, but actually the professional substance in the handling of the cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155616	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly and to Mrs Karina Adsbøl and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. The next question is to the tax minister, and this has been asked by Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. And by mistake it has not come to the conclusion that there is also a co-questioner, but it is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155639	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper. And Mrs Pernille Skipper can start by reading the question aloud. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155643	Thank you, President. Will the Minister explain how to access the public collective bargaining and ensure an economic negotiating framework that allows for a significant wage increase for employees in the public welfare sector who, through their efforts during the corona crisis, have documented how valuable they are to Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155716	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155717	I would like to answer that and thank you for the question. As the questioner rightly knows, the overall framework for the terms and conditions of employment of public employees is, as you know, laid down in the collective agreements we have concluded between the social partners. In the public sector, it will then be up to the social partners to give priority and, above all, to conclude an agreement on the terms and conditions of employment of public employees for the forthcoming contractual period. In respect of the principles behind and in the Danish model of agreement, I will leave concrete proposals on pay and employment and working conditions in the public labour market to the contracting parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155759	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203155801	Thank you. That's all very well, and thank you for this review. It is, of course, important to point out to the attentive listener that, in this case, which the Minister of Taxation and the Minister of Finance refer to here, the employer is the public authorities. So we are talking about collective bargaining in the public sector. And it is possible, even if neither the Minister nor myself is going to sit and negotiate, absolutely not to set a political direction for how these negotiations are to take place and with some sort of management of how you want to behave as an employer. This has been done for many years with the purpose of the Modernisation Authority, which, it can be said, was to press public employees as much as possible on pay. They should have as little as possible and run as quickly as possible. And then, together, on the understanding paper which forms the basis of the current government, we also chose to say that there should be a different approach, that is to say that a more trusting approach to public bargaining would be ensured. You could do that. For example, we have an enormous problem for me to see also the political problem of unequal pay between the sexes. This is largely caused by the pay gap between the public specially female care professions and other male-dominated professions. We are also faced with a recruitment problem among sosus and nurses and midwives. And we can all see right now how vital the public sector is to keep up a certain body part of our society, including the private sector, when a crisis like this strikes. So why do we not decide that we will be the employer who will ensure an equal pay and low pay pool so that in the negotiations we can use it to do something about unequal pay and to ensure that the low-paid people who are working hard right now get the pay they deserve?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160010	Thank you. In other words, the question touches on the key principles of how we agree pay on the Danish labour market. We have discussed this before, so the questioner knows that this is also a principle for the government. But the reality is that what the questioner is also asking is that together we have clearly signalled that, in relation to the experience gained from previous collective bargaining, some decisions had to be taken on some changes. That is why I stand here as the tax minister and have now been given responsibility for state negotiations, and I am then the employer for the state's part of the negotiations. What has happened is that we have created our new board of directors, the Staff and Competence Board. In any case, my view is that it has been very well welcomed. There is a good atmosphere and, in general, a good dialogue with the parties with which we must then reach an agreement. But, of course, the government and I, as a negotiator, also think this is something that belongs in an agreement with the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160120	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160123	I wish we could sometimes take this discussion a little without strawmen, because I know how it works with the social partners and collective bargaining. As the Minister also says, we have had this discussion before. It is not the case that I have not been lectured before on the functions of the labour market and collective bargaining. So thank you for that, by the way. But you can decide to be another employer, and you can tell me whether Danske Regioner and KL and, by the way, all the professional organisations would not accept it if we said that we would give priority to tackling the problem of equal pay and would lift the lowest-paid with a pool of money that they then distribute. It's easy to make that decision. It is nowhere written in the constitution or existing legislation that we cannot make that decision. Moreover, the Socialists thought it a few years ago, so it may be that I can succeed in changing their position this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160214	Thank you. Then it'll be the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160216	I have full respect for the point of view, that's not it. It is always an important discussion to take. I just have a role as a negotiator and, if you will, the employer of the state area, and I am trying to play that role in respect of decades of tradition of how to negotiate in the Danish labour market. Of course, I feel obliged to do so. Then there is another discussion about the framework for public servants. There we have said very, very clearly, by common help, that with the change of government there was also a shift in public sector vision and a boost in public spending and public spending, the strengthening of the welfare area and, of course, a new governance to be the framework for the discussions that are taking place now. This has been an important priority for the government and I am pleased that it has been very well welcomed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160308	Then there's access to the co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160314	Thank you. I do not think the Minister is entirely concerned with the problem. For now the Minister says we have decades of experience. We're just in a situation right now, when we've been through a corona epidemic or we're going through a corona epidemic, and we're seeing some public employees who've gone to work in the health, care and care sectors, and who've thrown themselves into a rescue mission of huge dimensions. They have had to deal with a corona epidemic that they have helped to bring us through safely, that is to say, both our health and care and caring sectors, but also our private business. They have gone to work knowing that they have a risk of being able to infect the people they have had to take care of. They have gone to work, knowing that there is a risk that they could take the infection home. They have done an enormous amount of work in which they have had to adapt. They have had to make an extra effort and go to work often at very short notice. They have made enormous efforts and what has been given to them so far is thanks and honey hearts. There it is, of course, that the Minister, like him, has the opportunity to ensure that they get more than that. Does the Minister really not think that they deserve more than that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160437	In other words, as the questioner, I and the government are, and we have also signaled this very, very clearly, full of admiration for the efforts that have been made in the public sector. And that is a thank you to those who are typically called our front staff a little anonymously, but who are nurses, sosus, elderly care workers, primary school teachers. They have all done a fantastic job. There is only reason to say a great deal of thanks for that. Then it is clear that there are some principles here and I think it is wise to maintain them. That is the attitude of the government, namely that we should do so in respect of the tradition we have of negotiating agreements. In addition, we have a common consensus on how to give priority to the other resources of society in order, of course, to strengthen welfare and thus also the working conditions of public employees. But it's another side. And then, together, we have also signalled that we want a different framework for the whole relationship between whether you want to, employers and employees in this area. After all, this has been achieved by the creation of the new administration, for which I have been responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160549	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160550	Maybe the minister could answer something. If the public employees were to have more than thanks if they were to have more than honey hearts, if they really were to have more in pay, who would have to bring that money if we were not to bring them? In other words, is it increased productivity that would allow them to be used there, namely that more pay could be paid to individual employees? Where is it that the Minister imagines that the money for an increased salary that I assume we agree they should have for the effort they have delivered should come exactly from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160626-2	Well, that money comes from where we make our other priorities, but they are negotiated independently of the debate in this Chamber, I hope, and that is something that lies within the negotiations which are based on decades of tradition of how to deal with labour market agreements and the respect that exists for the Danish model, which, in parentheses, is famous outside the country's borders, precisely for its stability, and I think that is very important to maintain.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160658	Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper again for a final round of 1⁄2 minutes duration. Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160712	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. This isn't the last time we're gonna have this conversation, that's for sure. And, in particular, I just want to take note of what was said here at the end, precisely that if we are to set aside money for public employees to have a wage increase; if we are to ensure that there is a slight gap between women's and male-dominated professions and to get something done about unequal pay; and if we are to ensure that, with the lowest salaries in the public sector, there is only a little lifting, then there is one place from which that money can be prioritised, and that is political. That is what the Minister himself has just said. That is why it is our responsibility that we must shoulder together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160758	It is clear that the money we are discussing comes from the same place, as it were. But there is a long way to go from there to how the negotiations are going to take place. That is what the questioner also knows very well is the attitude of the government. We have a labour market model, a Danish model of agreement, which is famous and which has created stability in the Danish labour market. I think that is very, very important, and the government intends to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160827	I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation. There are no more questions for the tax minister in this Chamber today. The next to receive a number of questions is the Minister for Health. And the first to ask questions to the Minister for Health is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160844	Thank you. What does the Minister think about the newspaper Denmark's revelations of the process behind the plans to shut down child cancer treatment outside Copenhagen, and will the Minister see to it that plans are stopped if there is no professional justification for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203160906-2	Thank you for the question. Let me start by saying frankly that I understand that the article to which the questioner refers gives the impression that this is an agreed game or a major centralisation plan. Neither can we accept. As I told you at the consultation on the same case on 12 January, the Danish Health Authority has informed me that it will not collect all investigation and all treatment in one place in the country, as otherwise stated in the debate here, and I have also been informed by the board that closeness in the treatment will be an entirely natural part of the solution where it does not affect quality. The fact that the Danish Health Authority is carrying out the task of constantly examining the distribution of specialities and how to lift the specialties is part of section 208 of the Health Act. That is simply their task, and I know there is a very, very broad majority in favour of it, including the Radical Left. It is wise to do so. Our task is, of course, to give them the opportunity to do so, but also to ensure that this is done, of course, according to a reasonable framework. What I am told about by the Danish Health Service is that the reason why they are now looking at exactly these elements is an assessment that it is a complex disease which is, after all, very, very serious, namely child cancer, and that it affects approx. 200 children a year. Many different diagnoses are in the same category, and therefore the complex treatments where you have to be sure that you have the right cooperation all the time and you have the right radiotherapy, surgery, stem cell transplantation and also experimental treatment, and we have to be absolutely sure that we are reaping all the progress that is fortunately in this area in Denmark. That's wise; they have to do that work all the time. However, having said that, let me stress that I am concerned that all children with life-threatening diseases can receive the very best treatment, no matter where they live in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161110	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161111	Thank you for your answer. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for Health, whom I know quite personally, also from our common time in transport, for a great deal of work on corona, and therefore also for standing here today. This is also an important matter, although, of course, it is not, hopefully, as topical as Corona unfortunately is. The reason I take this up is not, and I know the Minister is aware that we will have the rules on how the Danish Health Service should work. I have also sat on the Regional Council and know how the Danish Health Authority should work. I fully agree with the Minister that it is to ensure good treatment that we have made the law we have. When I take it up anyway, it's because I think we can all understand that it's absolutely horrible if your child gets cancer. Of course you would go to Copenhagen or the North Pole or wherever in the world if it were for the best treatment. But we can see here that the treatment is good in all four places. As far as I know, there is no evidence that the treatment would be worse in Aarhus or Odense or in Aalborg into Copenhagen, which means that it means a lot to these families that they can go to this treatment programme in the neighbourhood where they live. It may be as much as 100 times you have to go to a treatment. Besides being sad and afraid of it, it is a huge interference in family life, including for siblings and for working life. Therefore, I find it annoying, to put it that way, to see that there is not really any professional justification, as it appears in that article, for why the Health Authority has gone into it. That, unfortunately, reduces the credibility of the Health Authority when it comes out of the blue and the medical companies have not actually wanted it to be looked at at at all. So what has the Minister set in motion internally in his system, and when can we expect the Danish Health Authority to come up with something and also bring the professionalism behind this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161321	First of all, I would like to thank you for your introductory remarks. Secondly, I would like to say that I fully agree; that goes without saying. In my own close family I have also had child cancer in my life, not in myself, but very, very close, and what it means for years of treatments and back and forth and move back into departments and back again, one can only have the greatest sympathy for, and the people who go through it must have all the help they can possibly get. It is now also the case that there are some times today where you go to Aarhus, for example. The particle cannon. Sometimes you have to go to different places and then you move there and get the treatment that you need there and then back again. However, with the basic systematic follow-up treatment week after week, it is not possible to centralise it and be in one place. It is important that it should be kept decentralized as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161416	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161417	I really appreciate that answer. Then, of course, we need a decision that it will be maintained in all four places. I took note of the Minister's first reply, which I wrote down: the Health Service will not gather it in one place. That does not mean that we want to maintain all four places. That is why I would like to ask: can we say at this stage that we want to maintain all four places? And again: When can we expect that work to be finished? It has created a great insecurity out there and a great anger, it must be said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161451-2	Yes, it has. It has created an anger in the broad section of the population, I think, and a huge insecurity among those we are most concerned about: families with children going through this. I understand that, and that is why I wish this work to be completed and completed as soon as possible. However, I also need to respect the legislation that exists and there is a clearly defined arm's length arm's length, and I cannot go in and trump the Board of Health. They have the health profession, they have the responsibility, and they must then lift that responsibility. And when I pass on information to the Danish Parliament, it is information I have received from the Danish Health Service that they will not centralize. But I cannot go into the follow-up questions here, because it is the Danish Health Authority which, with the committees defined in the legislation, has that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161535	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161536	I understand. Then I can just convey a wish that, unless you can find professional reasons for closing some places, you do not do so. I think that would be a very good thing, including with the common agenda that our parties have, to ensure as much proximity as it is technically justifiable. I would just like to end by calling on the Minister to have a discussion with the Danish Health Service on how to deal with this kind of thing, because it does not look good that this has been started at some meetings in the city where there is no record and where it does not look as if it has quite been done in the factual and sober way as it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161618	Finally, I note from these newspaper articles mentioned in the question that it should be something that has happened before I myself became a minister in this area. But that does not change the fact that it helps to create an image that is not good, and it does not give the confidence that it is so crucial that the whole of society has in our health authorities. So I've taken that call.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161644	So, thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg for the question. There will be another question for the Minister for Health and this time it is from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party, who is ready with a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161700	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161702	Thank you very much. Does the Minister believe that the risk assessments carried out by the authorities undoubtedly make it clear that it would not be possible to open post-schools and colleges if this were done taking into account guidelines on, among other things, testing and distance, or is it an assessment that the government has made politically without distinction to risk assessments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161724	No, it is a decision that has been made following a clear recommendation from the task force. After all, it was on the basis of a very worrying and rapid increase in infection rates up to Christmas, in December. And you can still see that rise. There is a huge tail behind the admissions and unfortunately also deaths. Now we have reduced part of it, but we are still at an excessively high level. So it really shows something about the fact that even though we deployed massively with decommissioning, it takes a long time to stabilize the infection and bring down the hospitalization figures. So it was a recommendation from the effort group, including the health authorities, that this decommissioning was decided. It was decided to send students from post-schools and high schools home on 21 December. It was also on the recommendation of the effort group, including the health authorities. Then, of course, we would very, very much like to get through it has safely and safely and preferably also quickly. The challenge is that we have the infection down, but there's the situation with these mutations. One is very, very common in Danish society. And we also know that there can be more. Even if we do everything we can, it's probably utopia to think that we can keep all mutations out of our society, since we have this more contagious variant that's starting to take over. That situation means that even if we have a very, very low level of infection, it will grow once the mutation takes over. That is the situation we need to prepare for. The calculations that need to be taken into account when we start to open society targeted, cautiously, pick up society again • are some calculations where we have to take into account that it is a pressure of infection that is harder than what we have been used to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161919	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203161920	I have yet to get an answer as to whether the authorities have made a definite calculation of post-schools alone, and not just the one we have received, where it has been added together with primary school pupils and youth education. And when you want to be so careful, it's a little weird that those who come with the mutations come across our borders and infect while we talk about Danish students who want to go in a bubble at their post-school. So I think it is to make fun of the Danes when we do nothing about those who come from the holiday and come here or who have come with a South African mutation. So I would like to ask again: is there a calculation from the authorities about only post-schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162001	I have to say first of all that it is not a correct statement that nothing is being done. For quite some time now, there has been a demand for a negative test to be carried out in order to get on a plane at all. We have now closed off direct flights to England during the Christmas days, and also to ferry connections, and now we have still closed off to the United Arab Emirates. And now we have a new weapon: to demand testing. Now I did not get the answer to the second question. I'm sorry. Time's up, so we're gonna have to get back to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162036	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162037	I ask again briefly: have the authorities made an assessment of only the post-schools without bringing with them primary schools and all the other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162047	It's not done yet. It may well be that it will be the next step in these modelling initiatives where you sit and calculate. These are rather complicated calculations, i.e. where vaccine should enter, where mutations should enter, where community activity should enter, plus that there is some uncertainty. This is the calculation that showed that the 0-4. class can be opened at this time. But there is no room for more now and here. The next step is one of the things they have to sit and count on. It will be some small targeted needle-stick calculations that need to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162120	Mrs Liselott Blixt for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162121	We know that modeling is very easy if you look at it that way. I see, for example. My two children, who are almost the only ones I see. But they tell me that they've been to a Christmas party with 15 in one place and 10 in the other place. That's when you had to be 10 and that's 15 for me. If the young people are out there and see all sorts of other people and come home with their families who go to work and see 5 every day, that's a lot of people you have to put together every single day, whereas they are only with the same kids every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162157	It is, of course, the experience and knowledge of the sector that must be used and that has already been used. If you read the Danish Health Authority's assessments, you can see that it is precisely these things that are mentioned, i.e. bubbles, targeted testing of staff, smaller groups within the school. Such elements are some of what they have already described. It's clear that it's gonna help us open up a little bit more when we get this described exactly and get these things calculated and we're going a little further into the epidemic and we're sure this new mutation is under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162231	So I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. There is another question for the Minister for Health by Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162237	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162238	Yeah, he's got work to do. Does the Minister believe that it can be defended from a risk point of view that only the authorized professional groups must remain open, even if, for example, they do not have the right to vote in local elections? A foot therapist and a foot nurse have exactly as close contact with their clients, and just as a physiotherapist has as close contact with his clients as a masseur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162303	Here again it was on the recommendation of the task force that there was shut down back here around Christmas time. One of the steps taken was to close down these liberal services where the necessary anti-infectious distance cannot be ensured, including hairdressers, masseurs, tattooists, driving schools, etc. They were closed from Monday 21 December. The health service has been through this transition since the spring, and this makes it possible to maintain as normal an operation as possible despite many in-patients with covid-19. After all, it is absolutely essential for citizens to have access to medical care and other health services as normal as the current pressure on health care now allows. That is why authorised health professionals are exempt from the current decommissioning, but questions are then asked to the unauthorized health care professionals here. And that distinction is there in the decommissioning of the authorised and non-authorized health professionals, so it is to ensure that, on the one hand, we reduce the activity in society as much as possible and, on the other hand, we ensure that our health services maintain the necessary operation to ensure public health. And authorized health professionals are part of the official health services in Denmark in the sense that they are among other things. is subject to the Patient Safety Management Board. That is, of course, understandable if, for example, a foot nurse is frustrated that an authorised therapist is exempt from decommissioning, but there are therefore completely different requirements for the two different professional groups, which is why one cannot be compared to one. That's why this cut has been inserted in connection with the shutdown. But I have to be the first to recognise that, and not only in the area of all areas, the cuts made by decommissioning are extremely difficult. And I think I've been to the Parliamentary Chamber to answer questions about the time at 9 a.m. 22.00, on the border there, on the plane there and now on the therapists. And I understand them all. There's got to be a cut somewhere, and that's why it's always really hard. But it must of course be as professionally justified as it can possibly be, but we must also take responsibility for the fact that there has to be a cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162503	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162504	But this hits right into a sore toe that is: authorisation, which we have discussed very many times with the various health ministers. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that everyone who has to do with our well-being or health where it has something to do with people who have evil or suffer must have a license. This proves exactly why all professional groups need a license. In fact, the Minister says that we can send all social and health workers home, because they do not have a licence, even if they actually want it. Now the Minister is not the Minister for the Elderly anymore, but this is exactly what means that you are at a disadvantage when you do not have a licence. The corona epidemic proves that you are. Because if you're a foot therapist, you can stay open, but if you're a foot nurse, you can't. So the question is: does the Minister not think that we should look at safety rather than a licensing system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162603	Well, I guess we're in a slightly bigger, but nevertheless interesting debate. Perhaps I should just clarify this and say that it is a cut that is made, but it is not the case that it is a hundred percent, because there may also be health professionals who are authorised but who are not, for example, authorised. should carry out cosmetic operations, because that has also been stopped. So you have also tried to hit it in that way. But if the solution were to authorise everyone, we would create some other challenges, and we would still have to make a cut somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162637	I guess it should be more about the situation you're in. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Having problems with his back, which many Danes have, some have found that the best thing for them is to go to such a really good sports masseur who can really take hold, but they must not. They must then book time with a physiotherapist and hope that they can get something similar there. Isn't it a little bit to make a difference or to start pushing some clients somewhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162710	Yeah, it is, and we're not gonna get around the fact that there are these border cases. But if the solution then is that we should bring everyone along, we will suddenly have a very large increase in activity in society, an increase in activity precisely where there is a very, very close physical contact between the health person and customers, patients. And there is therefore a nervousness about this when it comes to getting the activity out of society again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162741	Mrs Liselott Blixt for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162742	In conclusion, I would like to say that the Minister for Health can expect a great many new proposals for the authorisation of health professionals who are not authorised today, but for whom the Danish People's Party wishes to obtain an authorisation, so that in another epidemic or something similar they can actually carry out what they have an education in. I want these to be my last words here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162809	Yeah, and then I can learn from it, that is, how to take care of what you say. Something that feels good at the moment can give a lot of work afterwards. But I look forward to those debates. And there may well be an important discussion hidden in that work, so I look forward to that very much. It should be borne in mind that this is not just a debate we are discussing at another time, and I look forward to it. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162836	Thank you to the Minister for Health and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for asking the question. The next question is to the Minister for Transport, and this has been asked by Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162850	Welcome to reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162852	When does the Minister expect negotiations with Parliament's parties on a new long-term infrastructure agreement to begin?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203162912	Thank you. And also thank you for giving the Minister time to get his hands drunk. It is important that we remember it at this time. Thank you for the question. It is my clear ambition that future infrastructure investments should be widely negotiated in the Folketing in order to secure long-term and solid political agreements addressing the major transport challenges. It is essential that everyone knows what to expect on the broad lines; it is a task that requires time and a solid foundation. With the agreement of December 2020 on green road transport, the government, together with the Radical Left, SF and Enhedslisten, has set an ambitious target for the green cars of the future, ensuring that at least 775,000 green cars are on the road by 2030. And this is, of course, a very important prerequisite for planning the infrastructure in the future. In February, the Eldrup Commission is expected to present its final report on charging infrastructure for electric cars, so that we have the last basis in place for opening negotiations. Then, of course, I have also noted that the questioner in today's edition of the local newspaper Egedal has also raised the issue of infrastructure negotiations, and I can do so, among other things. see that you want to prioritize the Frederikssund motorway. It is not surprising that there are wishes coming from outside locally, and the questioner mentions, in connection with the debate, the local wishes of the local mayors, and I understand that very well. I think you can find mayors all over the country who want certain things. The only thing I am perhaps a little surprised at is that the specific speech by the debate does not mention the fact that an updated vvm study has in fact been presented to the Frederikssund motorway, which shows that the rate of return is indeed better than hitherto assumed. I also think that is worth noting in this context, and in this way there are a number of updated vvm studies, feasibility studies and other technical ones which we are currently examining and getting to the point so that we have the best possible basis for decision-making when we reach the negotiations on a green mobility plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163125	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163126	Thank you so much for your answer. But it is not quite good enough for the Minister not to give a clear answer. It is now a year and a half since there were parliamentary elections, and the Minister's party, the Social Democratic Party, went to the polls for Denmark to have a new long-term infrastructure plan. For, as the party wrote in its call: "There is a need for new investments in our infrastructure. The investments must make everyday life easier for many Danes, just as they must contribute to a better balance in Denmark. A good and modern infrastructure is essential for the competitiveness of Danish companies. ▪ How long does the Minister think it reasonable that Danish drivers and companies should wait for certainty about projects in their area, such as the Frederikssund motorway, on which the Minister mentions a speech here? And can the Minister guarantee that he will be able to conclude a new long-term infrastructure plan during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163234	That's the ambition. What may surprise me is, of course, that you too, as a citizen, do not want to be part of the negotiations on creating good transport solutions. And I would remind you that we are looking at this in two stages first with the green road transport agreement, where I am very sorry that the author's party was not there. It was a process which took a very long time to get in place, and it could have been useful that the author's party had also been part of it. Because it is a prerequisite for ensuring, when we then have to make the green mobility plan with investment in infrastructure, that the cars driving on the roads also emit less CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163319	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163320	We are always ready to negotiate good bourgeois solutions, such as removing registration fees for all cars and not making it more expensive for the Danes to be a car owner. So I would say that what the Minister brings is a little what is called a christian castle response. The previous government allocated over 112 billion. kr. in their infrastructure plan, and in the Social Democratic proposal of January 2019, it was written that at least 70 billion would be set aside. kr. for investment in infrastructure and public installations over the next 10 years. Can the Minister reveal whether it is still the ambition, or whether these climate ambitions, for example, mean fewer new roads and motorways in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163408	We're gonna make a concrete move on this issue. Of course. However, I think that the questioner has quite well fallen into the pot with christiansborg rhetoric when you are not really listening to what is being said, including the ambition to create a broad political agreement. For that is absolutely crucial in my opinion and in the opinion of the government, and it is therefore also really a pity that New Citizens are obviously most concerned about rhetoric and not so much whether they can actually help make a difference. I hope that this will be reconsidered when we come to the discussions on infrastructure and that we will also help to create constructive solutions here. This also means, of course, that there are agreements that have been concluded in the past, which, of course, must also be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163452	Mrs Mette Thiesen for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163454	As I said to the Minister just now, of course, New Citizens will not be part of an agreement that makes it more expensive for the Danes. We would like to remove the registration fee for all cars and make it easier and cheaper for families to have a car. But now that the Minister mentions this, I would really like to ask the Minister whether he would also be willing to look at all the projects when, hopefully sooner or later, we are going to negotiate on infrastructure, i.e. whether the Minister will be ready to debate, for example, the unfair and anti-competitive user fee on Crown Princess Mary's Bro in Frederikssund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163532-2	I have said in advance that there is one project that we will not be looking at, and that is the Mariager bypass project. Otherwise, no new projects have been convicted in advance, and there are a great many good projects. Of course, one should be aware that if it is the case that one wants to promote certain projects it could be the Frederikssund motorway and if there are some things that are otherwise financed but that one wants to finance in other ways, then there will be less money for new roads. This is the case and, if necessary, new citizens will have to take part in the debates on priorities which will be held and, therefore, the citizens will have to know what road projects are not to be carried out. Is it the extension of the Hillerød motorway, is it the Frederikssund motorway, or is it another project, perhaps a project in Jutland, that you do not want to be implemented because you want to spend the money on something else? We are very happy to do so).
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163624	Thank you to the Minister for Transport and thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen for asking the question and to the Minister for answering it. The next person to accept a string of questions is the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, who has just found his place, and the questions are being asked by Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163646	Please ask the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163647	Thank you for that, and the question is: Will the Minister take the initiative to ensure that export certificates can again be signed and containers sealed from the Danish Food Authority located in connection with the Claus Sørensen Freezer House in Hanstholm, so that food companies in Thy can again get this service locally and should not drive an expensive detour to the Danish Food Authority's premises elsewhere in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163713	Thank you very much for the question. First of all, I can inform you that the signing of export certificates from Claus Sørensen A/S in Hanstholm is taking place from the Danish Food Authority's site in Aalborg, and this has not been changed in recent years, as I have been informed. In fact, you have to go back to 2017 before it was different. I can inform you that it has unfortunately been necessary to move the task of sealing containers from the meat check in Thisted to the Aalborg branch from 1 January 2021. This is because, as I have been informed, it has not been possible for the FDA to recruit competent staff for the meat check in Thisted. I would like to stress that there is no question of saving the staff. On the contrary, the reorganisation is due to the fact that recruitment has proved difficult and that the sealing of few containers per day is not sufficient to recruit one employee for this alone. In addition, a minimum of two employees are needed to solve the task within the time required by Claus Sørensen A/S. The Danish Food Authority has informed me that they have invited the company to a more detailed discussion so that the parties can jointly find the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163830	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203163832	Thank you for your answer. It is true that the staff member concerned has been transferred to the meat inspection in Thisted on Tican, and it is also essential that the meat inspection works on Tican. But Tican is also a user of the service. I just find it frustrating to experience that the government would like to talk about doing well for Denmark to be connected, but when it becomes concrete, reality is just another. This is a service deterioration for the companies in Thy. This means that it will be more expensive for exporting companies to transport their goods out of the country. For instead of being able to handle the task locally, you have to drive an expensive detour, and there is in fact only the exporting companies concerned to pay the bill. That's why I think it's a shame that nothing more has been done by the FDA to ensure that this service can be preserved. I know that without being an expert in the competence of the FDA staff, there is probably a difference between the skills needed to be in the meat inspection in a slaughterhouse and then to seal containers and make export certificates. So I would like to ask for a political statement from the Minister that the Minister promises to work to reinstate that position so that the service can again be performed locally and that the lack of staff at the Danish Food Authority should not impair the competitiveness of the companies in Thy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164022	I agree that, of course, we have the starting point, that when it is that there are services that can be carried out as decentrally as possible, then we must try to do so. After all, I pointed out in my reply that, as far as these signatures of export certificates are concerned, this is something that has been going on in Aalborg since 2017, i.e. also under the former Left Government. Then there is the specific sealing of the containers and there has been a concrete recruitment challenge. So there has been a practical explanation for the fact that it is as it is, and indeed an initiative has been taken for talks and other things. But I'm happy to dive into this. Because I kind of share the view that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen comes here to tell us that we should have as good a service decentralized as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164105	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164106	My information is different, but it would certainly be a very good idea for the Minister to dig deeper into the matter. For the reality is that this means that since 1 January of every day exports from Thy have been subject to an additional cost that they have not had in the past, and if there is any point in Denmark being a proud food exporting country, then it is a question of ensuring proper conditions of competition. And it certainly does that for those parts of Denmark where export markets are slightly longer than elsewhere, and there is that in Thy and North Jutland, and it is clear that if there are expensive costs then it is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164152	As I understand the Danish Food Authority, you have done your part in ensuring a good dialogue with Claus Sørensen A/S, but what I can see is that you have had meetings on 9 and 12 December 2020. But much of the correspondence referred to here is about whether you can get things done elsewhere. I am, in fact, in favour of the questioner's concern that it should be dealt with in a decentralized, local way, and in response to this question by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Torsten Schack Pedersen I will try to take it up again to see if there is anything we can do to ensure the local solution. Because I kind of agree with that is the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164229	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for a final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164229-2	I welcome the Minister's commitment to work towards a solution. I welcome this and hope that the Minister will be able to get the FDA to deliver. Because it is important, and I know you should be able to find skilled staff for the task, and I hope that it will be the result that the Danish Food Safety Agency will also find a useful solution in a close dialogue with the companies concerned. Because that's what we need. But I am grateful to the Minister for replying in the affirmative that this is a matter that will be followed up. This is important for a lot of companies in Thy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164308	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Torsten Schack Pedersen brings this up. Now we look into it, and as I understand it from the Danish Food Safety Agency, it has been some practical recruitment challenges that have caused you to end up in this situation. But I'll ask you more about it. That doesn't mean that I can promise that with a snapshot solution we can solve this. But we're on track, and we're really glad it's being taken up. Because we agree that the more decentralised the solution the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164332	Thank you to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries for answering the question, and thank you to the author for asking it. The next questions will be put to the Minister for Children and Education, and the first question is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164352	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164353	Thank you. Can the Minister state when, as promised by the Minister, the political follow-up group on Covid-19 in the Ministry of Children and Education will be sent the recommendations of the health authorities on which the Minister bases his recommendations on restrictions and measures, so that the follow-up group will have a health professional basis to take part in the discussions with the Minister to find the best ways through the coming period for pupils in all the different educations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164421	Thank you. It will be a bit of a repetition of a discussion we have actually had when we have not been in the Assembly and all this, but I really think it is very good to have the discussion here too, so thank you for the question. As you know, the government has decided on restrictions and measures in relation to corona on the basis of recommendations from the effort group, including from the health authorities. The recommendations of the effort group are based on weekly risk assessments, where the Statens Serum Institut assesses the safety risk corona at the given time in Denmark. The weekly risk assessments are publicly available on the authorities' common website called coronasmitte.dk, and the Ministry of Children and Education has so indicated that it would like to submit the risk assessments and has submitted the one that was the basis for the decommissioning of schools and daycare centres in the Ministry of Children and Education in December 2020. I am so well aware that other papers on health care are also needed, and there is my view that if you want further information, it is a good idea instead of going to the source to get the documents, namely the Ministry of Health. That is why I would like to refer to the Minister of Health for further information, so that we do not get too many links into it, and so that we respect the usual workflow and resort distribution that is in relation to it. However, in the same way as the director of the Statens Serum Institute pointed out on Monday's press conference, it is important for me just to stress that at this stage there is no air for him to call it contagious that there is further opening. We have, like, reached a maximum limit, which means that when the cup is completely full, it doesn't matter which drop we fill up on top; then it will flow over. This means that the answer is 'no' and that there is unfortunately no possibility of further opening up at the moment in relation to the situation we are facing. I think we all wish things were different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164614	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164614-2	Well, it's not about us saying that now we just have to open up a whole lot. I think we are all aware that there are sharp limits to what we can and how we can do it. So what is really my business is to say that when we sit over there with the minister and discuss how to create some conditions for our young students over the spring that they can be in and in which they can act, it would be very relevant to have the opportunity to know what the health authorities think about it. I can have a picture of it. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. If the apprentices discuss vocational training, it is the case that they are allowed to go out into the companies, because they may be there, but they must not be in the workshops in the schools. It should look like the workshops that are out in reality, so in my head the pressure of infection will be the same there. But in order for us to be able to discuss it at all when we have to put a plan over with the Minister, we need to know whether this is even an option. It is just really frustrating to sit in some discussions where the answer we get from the Minister is that we can go over and ask another minister, because it is exactly at that table where we sit and discuss it that we lack that knowledge. At the press conference on the other day there was as far as I remember, but otherwise the Minister must dismiss the question of the older children in primary school, whether they could sit at home with one of the comrades, whether they could sit three or four comrades together and be in school. The Minister's answer was rather the same as what we got last year when we were discussing whether a teacher had to take the students for a walk, namely that the teacher should not organise it, but that the students cannot be prevented from doing so. But the problem is that the students who need it most also need a little organization around it. There it might be really relevant to know if it would not be okay to encourage teachers to plan something, so you actually keep it within the little bubbles and actually do it in a way that must immediately be responsible. Then we could move on and help those kids.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164816	What is called for here is, after all, a health assessment of some things that are going on in the field of education. Health assessment takes place in the Ministry of Health. After all, it is all relevant issues and also relevant to discuss with the parties, but it is between the Minister for Health and the political parties. I understand the desire to discuss it. This is simply the wrong place to go, namely with me in terms of health assessments as to whether one, the other or the third can be done in terms of infection. I think the questions are entirely relevant. This is simply the wrong place to ask, because it is not in the Ministry of Children and Education that we make health assessments of things. I think that I think that is sensible enough, because everything else equals it is not there, the Ministry of Children and Education has its prime competence, because these are things that are all equal to medical subjects, and that is why it is in the Danish Health Authority and the Statens Serum Institute and thus over on the Ministry of Health's territory. So I actually think that the resort distribution makes sense. I understand that, as rapporteur for education, we would like to have the opportunity to discuss this in the Ministry of Health. You have to find out within the party how you do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164924	Thank you. It's sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203164925	I just think it's quite, quite backwards. Because we sit over with the Minister for Children and Education and talk in the various areas of agreement about what we do in primary school, what we do in vocational education and what we can do in the other youth education programmes, in relation to the young people getting through this spring. And what I actually hear the Minister say is that we have to move that discussion to the Ministry of Health. We cannot discuss this with the Minister for Health, because the Minister for Health does not necessarily understand the area of education and we need to combine those things. So it may well be that we have to bring the Minister over to the Minister for Health and then sit there and discuss it in order to get some input that will enable us to know whether or not we can do what we want to do. Isn't that weird?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165010	What I hear is being asked for here is a concrete assessment of certain things, in other words a desire for an assessment of whether it is possible to open up to it and that, and whether it is possible for small groups to meet in a different way from what are the guidelines now. There have also been questions as to whether it is possible to open the post-schools. This is all a health assessment. Then it is clear that the moment we talk about what we can do to help the little ones back to school well, it is certainly a debate that we must have with each other. What we can do to improve the prosperity of the decommissioning of young people is certainly a discussion that we must have with each other. This is an educational policy discussion. But the health service is what is about the pandemic and biology and the virus. After all, I think that is best anchored in a place where it is the Health Authority and the health authorities that evaluate that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165059	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for a final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165059-2	However, if we are to have the discussion on how to get the primary school children back well and if we agree that it could be good in some small bubbles at home in the individual homes, then we just cannot do it because we need that sanction over from the health authorities to do so. Then it is a strange logic to say that we should then send the question over there. I do not want to send all sorts of questions over there, because the answer we get from over there is that there are too many things they have to answer, and they cannot do that. So I would much rather that we in the Minister for Children and Education agreed that these are the five things we need answers to and that the Minister could then ensure that we were given the answer quite specifically to the things we really want to agree in the circle of agreements to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165144	All other things being equal, we have a strict distribution of labour and a division of labour, and what we are discussing under the auspices of the Ministry of Children and Education is not really a matter of biology and infection. That means that I understand the wish, but there are other questions as well. If you ask questions about how much it costs to lower the class quotient in the secondary school field, you will ask that question in the Ministry of Finance, even if, of course, part of it will, by its very nature, be over in the Ministry of Children and Education afterwards. So there is something about the fact that issues relating to infection obviously belong in the Ministry of Health, but that is why we can have educational policy discussions over with us, just as we usually do. But if we're going to get questions over there, over there, sorry, that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165233	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education for answering the question, and thank you to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for the question. The next minister, who will have a number of questions, is the Minister for Education and Research. The first question is put by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165255	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165256	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on drawing up a holistic curriculum for students with disabilities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165307	Thank you for the question, which we have had the pleasure of discussing in connection with motion for a resolution B 99 in the past. As I also said at the time during the debate, students with disabilities must, of course, have good opportunities to take a higher education so that they do not need to spend their time unnecessarily seeking exemption for the same disability several times. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to reiterate precisely the fact that higher education institutions are responsible for offering appropriate individual adjustments, including, of course, special conditions for students with disabilities, from the moment they are made aware of the disability. The Danish Education and Research Authority sent a shepherd letter back in the spring of last year to the higher education institutions, and I understand that the shepherd letter has helped to highlight the problem, but for me it is also important that there is room for local and individual solutions in the way an institution meets the adaptation obligation. This requires a high degree of flexibility so that the educational institutions, together with the individual student, can deal with the challenges posed by a given disability and which also work in the practical reality of the student in that education. A holistic study plan could be an example of a tool that you can choose to use if, in conjunction with the individual student, they consider that this is what makes sense. However, I have reservations about making it as a requirement, as a certain planning tool. I think it is important for the institutions to maintain a high degree of flexibility in how they do so, because I think we should also bear in mind that a disability can affect the individual student differently in the different situations, just as it can vary how and how the student informs about his disability, and there must be room for that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165539	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165541	Thank you very much for your answer. It is quite true that we had a discussion, a discussion, here in the Danish Parliament, based on a motion for a resolution tabled by my good colleague, Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from Dansk Folkeparti, who is also a part of the questions here. If you have contact with the outside world, not least the organisations for the disabled, then it appears that nothing has actually happened since we had the debate last year, and I think that is really a pity, because the debate resulted in a report in which a majority in the Danish Parliament instructed the Minister to look at what initiatives the Minister can take in order to minimise the inequality that exists in the education system for people with disabilities. That is why I think it is really, really a pity that the only thing the Minister can refer to here is that a shepherd's letter has been sent. In other words, the identification here of the barriers which make it difficult for people with disabilities to complete an education is still of benefit to the Minister, and I would just like to urge the Minister to take a closer look at this, because we are all interested in it. Of course, students who have a disability have an obvious personal interest, but as a society we have a huge interest in ensuring that the barriers to the completion of an education are identified and that we also have them addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165732	That commitment and objective are commendable, and I share that, and I would really like to thank you for continuing to keep us on fire repeatedly in this discussion. That's not how I think things are solved with a shepherd's letter. On the contrary, I also have an ongoing interest in diving into exactly the environments that experience this everyday. We also have an arrow in the report that shows the future in order to uncover what can be further done. It has been decided here along the way in Corona, and that is why it is still a work that is in progress, in relation to discovering what can be done about further things, and that, of course, is something that we will have to discuss again with the rapporteur when we have come closer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165819	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165820	I have to say that I am glad that it is emphasized here that the Minister is aware that a shepherd's letter does not, of course, do so alone, but I think it is quite a pity that many things in the minister's area are being pushed into the wording: because of corona we cannot do this or that. In other words, the world goes further, even though we are hit by a pandemic, and the education sector has some challenges in accommodating students with disabilities. I am well aware of that, but you will certainly have it after corona, which is why I am very, very sorry that the Minister also uses corona here as a pretext for not doing much. So it's just again a strong call to take the spoon into the other hand and get the work going and identify these barriers that exist. If not, then we must resort to a real parliamentary debate once again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203165929-2	I would like to reaffirm that is still the objective, but I would also like to say very frankly that, both with regard to the official apparatus for which I am the minister, the governing body which is involved here, but in fact also with regard to the individual educational institution, I give back cover when it comes to saying that the most important task they have at the moment is to steer us through this pandemic with the 250 000 students we have in our higher education, who will continue to have training, who will continue to have to undergo the exam, and where we will deal with those who are miserable along the way, and where we will collect up to the 40,000 teachers we have, who are also working hard out there. In fact, I think that is fair to say is the most important task right now, although the other is, of course, still on the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170013	Then there's access to the co-questioner, and that's sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170019	Thank you. I would like to return to young people with disabilities. Can we not agree that the starting point must be that it is the skills and not a possible disability that determine whether a young person can take an education? And it is quite obvious that when you look at students with disabilities, they have, in addition to the disabled, all the common challenges, and then they also have to struggle with a lot of administration and bureaucracy about getting the opportunities that they actually need along the way. And I would like to pay tribute to the shepherd's letter, which had also been sent out before the story of this summer was made. There are a lot of right things in what the challenge is, whether it is actually being followed up and whether it is being followed up out there. That is at least one of the things that I hope the Minister will come back to, that is, how to do it. And one of the elements that I think could have been at the heart of such a file would be to say that each young student had a file in which applications and documentation etc. could be assembled and that it could actually follow the young person around in the training. For some of the things that make it really difficult is that you have to keep documenting and documenting again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170128	Well, I fully share the ambition that it should not be bureaucracy, administration, trouble and waiting, that there should be a blockade in relation to taking an education as disabled in this country. It is a shared ambition. It is very much a clear signal from me as a minister down to all those who are dealing with this every day, that it should not be unnecessary trouble for the individual. And thank you for the nice words in relation to what is in that shepherd's letter. I also think that if you look at what today is a requirement right for the individual disabled students, and if we could get to where it became real that you got it, then we would already have got really, really far. And, of course, it is an ambition to keep following it up when it does not happen; and of course it is not done with it. Where we see that it does not work, we must always return to and make it better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170226	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170227	But then I hear that one thing is that we are in the middle of the pandemic and that there are things that are not going as fast, i.e. things like this that we might want. But now that we can see that I am afraid I have to say that the shepherd's letter is not being followed to the letter in every place, what will the minister do to live up to it and also to live up to the intention of last summer's report in relation to an overall plan or, at least, some steps to ensure that students receive the help they need? What will the Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170301	I would agree that this is not what I have had the primary dialogue with our educational institutions since we sent the shepherd's letter. But of course it is the idea, when you send a letter like that, that it is then followed up, that it can not only be archived vertically, but when you send a letter of that nature as a minister, we also follow up to see if it is executed. And, as I also said to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs before, there is still openness from my hand in looking at what we can do further, also in a lead with some rapporteurs, whom I would like to acknowledge again for a very great commitment and also to the questioners. It is nice that there is that commitment and focus on our disabled students.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170347	And then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs for a final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170350	Thank you. And thank you very much for the invitation and the commitment that we will not stop the debate with the questions here during Question Time today. Thank you for that. May I just mention that an important part of the whole discussion is connected to our su system and in the way the su system is organized. And there I really think we have to dive down and look very carefully, in terms of how we can set up the su system, so that it also embraces students with disabilities. Too much suggests that we have to look at the way students are thrown around in the su system, in relation to the many different application procedures where you have to apply over and over again, despite the fact that your disability does not stop. Because even if you have received a single su supplement, you also need it for the rest of your study period. And there are even more questions than we can get around here during Question Time, but this is just an appeal to the Minister that that discussion should also include a thorough discussion of our Su system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170508	Fortunately, we now have one more question and one more round, where exactly it can be drilled out, and that is good. Of course, it is clear that this is both about the framework, but also about the economy and about the help you can get along the way in the study. And it is important to say that, like all our educations, there are very different things and that what you have to be able to do in our educations is very different, so there are many, many different things within the category disability. In other words, there is a very large difference between whether you have a physical or a mental disability and therefore also how much it can potentially change over e.g. a 5-year training period. Fortunately, there are many of the handicaps that fall within these categories, which are not permanent and in which we can see an improvement along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170557	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the authors. And there's gonna be another round of new content.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170603	Here you go, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for reading the question to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170606	Thank you. What will the Minister do to ensure that students with disabilities who have the right to receive disability allowances for su and special support measures (SPS) receive an agreement on this prior to admission to an education so that students are not behind at the start of their studies?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170625	Thank you for that question too. I share the questioner's intention that students with disabilities should get off to a good start on their education and, moreover, like all other students, have a good course of study. Su-handicap supplement and SPS, that is special educational support, are really important tools to get there. The Board for Education and Quality under the Ministry of Children and Education administers the SPS scheme, and they consider that in many cases there are good opportunities for the student to have his SPS support ready for study start. The SPS scheme covers the entire ordinary education system, and a student who goes directly from one education to another can bring, for example: his aid. The Su-handicap supplement and the possibility of it are managed in turn under the Danish Education and Research Authority and covers only the higher education and vocational education and training programmes. A student will therefore often first apply for the supplement at the start of his studies. The scheme is intended to compensate for a lack of earning capacity and thus has a slightly different aim than the SPS. For both schemes, the examination of applications takes place on the basis of an individual assessment of the individual's aid needs. The assessment also includes knowledge about the specific education on which the student is admitted; it may be the form of teaching, the number of lessons, etc. Since students can apply for admission to up to eight priority programmes, the individual assessment here, prior to knowing where they are admitted, will mean that they will potentially have to be assessed on the basis of all eight programmes applied for, which would mean a substantial additional administration and, in fact, also an administrative waste in those programmes where the student is not admitted. Overall, therefore, I do not have any immediate thoughts about changes in that part itself. For me, the focal point is rather that the specific case-law supports the applicant's needs. This is also true in relation to the duration of the proceedings, which has been long for applications for su-handicap supplements. The Board states that efforts are being made to reduce processing time. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that disability, as I mentioned earlier, can change over time and therefore it will also be an individual assessment of the individual student.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170900	Thank you for a long answer, with only two minutes' speaking time. Here you go, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203170905	Thank you. Well, of course it's individual, and of course disability can change. Conversely, we also know that very many students with disabilities fall from their studies. And a great many of them do so because they do not get the help and support they really need from the start. If it takes 3, 4 or 5 months of your study before you have things in place, then you have to be very, very strong not to fall away. Therefore, I think we should turn this challenge upside down and say: it is simply crucial that it is in place before they start. And whatever it takes to do that, we have to find out, because I am not buying that it has to be so individual in relation to the individual education. Well, there will be many disabilities where you can make that assessment in advance and say that when you are admitted to an education, you actually have that approval so that it slides directly into the studio. It simply cannot be that we cannot make it. So, as the Minister himself said, there are too long waiting times. Of course, something can be done about this. I have an answer back here from September, where it says that the standard waiting time, if you have delivered all the information you had to, was 3-4 months, and if there was anything to be reported, it was 6-7 months. That means it's Christmas before you get your su-handicap supplement. You can't live with that. So we simply have to do better, if necessary, we start earlier, and otherwise we have to make the process much, much faster. Will the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171035	At any rate, I would very much like to speed up the process. I would much rather give priority to this than start earlier with the potentially large administrative extra task that lies in it, also in relation to situations where the student ends up not starting or being admitted. So with the forces that are, I'd much rather focus on the waiting time coming down. I have very clearly signaled that. That too is the responsibility of the governing body, and I shall follow it in the future. It is, of course, crucial that we do not have to wait out of proportion for a long time, for example. his disability allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171116	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171117	However, I cannot help thinking now that the Minister says that every education must be assessed for every education, whether it is real and justified and necessary, or whether one could say that if we have someone who is blind or someone who has a mental illness, we would actually be able to make an assessment in advance that one would actually be able to go in and say that it would be able to get both the help that is needed and the su-handicap supplement. Would that be so impossible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171145	I would like to repeat that I really think it is important that we do not run too many standard boxes down on this, but actually take as a starting point the individual student who, for one reason or another, needs support and help in this context, and the specific training that the person goes on. Because there is no reason why a disability becomes a problem across the board necessarily. Nor is it the case that if you are in recovery, you are stuck in a box. In fact, I think that we should stick to the individual assessment, also resisting the training that we are going on, because this is all about everything from having to be a doctor to being a teacher to having to be a master of machinery. There is a very large difference out there, and there must be room to take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171231	Then there is access to the co-questioner, and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171234	Thank you. As I said earlier, I am very concerned to ensure that people with disabilities have the opportunity to complete higher education. One is the length of time for the grant, another is the guidance which you then have access to if you are a person with a disability, and according to information provided by the Association of Young People with Disabilities, SUMH, it is in fact only every other student with disabilities who has received guidance on the special support and dispensation possibilities available to people with disabilities. In other words, every other person does not actually receive the guidance that one might expect them to receive. I am thinking here that we must have a low-hanging fruit. So what will the Minister do to ensure that those who have a disability also receive the guidance that they are, of course, entitled to, about the support opportunities that already exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171343	Well, these actions are made because we politically consider that it is appropriate that if you have a disability, you get extra help and support. Of course it must help and support so also reach out to those who are entitled to it and need it. So I'm gonna try to dive into what covers up, 'cause it's supposed to be a low-hanging fruit if it sticks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171408	That is precisely where a shepherd's letter to the institutions does not go. Those are other things we need to get hold of. But that is certainly one of the barriers, I think, which should be relatively easy to pass and thus reach the people involved. So I am pleased that the Minister here gives an undertaking to dive into what is the reason why people with disabilities do not have access to, at least not immediately, the guidance they should have under the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171440	However, it has been indicated that it is of course a matter of getting knowledge to the individual student and not just the institution. There is a responsibility out there locally, and we must follow that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171451	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for a final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171454	Thank you. The Minister says that students can get better, and fortunately some of them can; that is quite right. But I am thinking that we are actually a little back on the first question: what we had in the past, because if we are to ensure that we as a student get the guidance, that things are picked up and that things come into a framework that can deal individually with what each student needs, and it may also be that one gets better along the way and has to have a different kind of support, then a holistic study plan for the individual could actually solve it, for me to see. So will the Minister not help to ensure that we get it established?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171531	For me, it is really important to keep in mind that the starting point is that if you have a disability and want to enter to study an education, it must be possible for you within the framework that is now once upon a time and with the support we have politically agreed to be available. And whether it is an overall plan or whether it is to live up to what is already a right today, we must, of course, be aware of if the individual does not experience the help that has been decided politically, of course. But what the questioner has also said is that it can be a little bit complicated to talk about a blind person and one with mental illness in one and the same box. For it is clear that, unfortunately, most blind people do not get their sight back, and then there may be something else at stake. Oh, I hope that you have a look for that in those individual handlings out there locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171626	I would like to thank the Minister, despite the summoning of the higher powers, for that I have allowed to pass. Thank you, too, to the two authors. There is another question for the Minister, and this time it is a question that is being asked by Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171650	And the questioner is ready for the questioner's reading. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171653	Thank you. My question is: what is the Minister's plan to address that some students are struggling with learning delays, lack of motivation and deprivation during decommissioning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171710	Thank you for the question, and thank you for caring about the welfare of our students and young people in this time. There is no doubt that the decommissioning of society and, of course, our degree programmes over the later period have affected our students and still do so. Many people find that learning results are lower, and many also experience that it gets into trouble. Despite the fact that the teachers out there are working hard, and despite the fact that they are doing what they can to keep some form of community going, it puts itself in both the learning results and the thriving. I am in a very close dialogue with our degree programmes about how bad things are, but also how we handle it. It is also, of course, with a view to training young people directly into the labour market, and that is why we also have a separate responsibility for them to be able to do what they have to do when they get to our businesses. This is a separate issue. In addition, however, there is also a particular problem in their simply losing motivation for learning right now. They lose the motivation to get up at all, many of them, and what was already an important agenda before corona hit, with young people's stress and loneliness and misfortune, which for many has become much, much worse during this period, has become even more important and a very important subject for me. I also see that it is for the questioner and the other rapporteurs that we are working with. We have taken various steps along the way, both jointly allocated money for example. Student counselling and other measures for young people to talk to, but of course also for example. held well-being summits so that the many good ideas that pop up across the country can fortunately inspire across the country. At the same time, we have also decided jointly to provide our educational institutions with a flexible framework so that they can also find solutions locally. We will continue to do so, and we will continue to have dialogue on this, both with the institutions and with the rapporteurs. It's important that we get through this time as best we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171933	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203171935	Thank you, Minister. After all, we fully share the analysis that our students are having a really difficult time. Some have not been there at all at their educational establishment yet, but have started virtually on their education last year with prefabricated lectures. They're falling away, there's a big apostasy. The Minister sent a report to us that 43 per cent. I feel lonely, but I am surprised that the Minister has not called a single meeting with the rapporteurs during this wave two. Why does the Minister not convene a meeting with the rapporteurs on how to deal with this decommissioning, other than to inform in writing about su-extension and pools for student counselling?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172024	Last time we were in this room discussing exactly that, I also gave hands on the fact that in just a few weeks' time, when we know more about the extent of this spring shutdown and we look forward to what is really there, for example. I would like to call on the rapporteurs to discuss both the professional and the human aspects of the situation right now. Here again, just like the last time we were standing here, I want to shake hands with the fact that it's right on the stairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172059-2	Again, I'd like to say that this puzzles me. After all, we have had a decommissioning in the spring, and it does not seem that there has been any plan or consideration on how to deal with decommissioning number two. Now some have been shut down all the time, some have been completely shut down for eight weeks, and still we have not been called to a meeting. We don't know when they'll be back. Something's going on out there now. Why don't we come to a meeting now? We can't wait till spring. Or the Minister thinks we can, and then we can hope for better weather and less corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172129	I would like to stress that there has been a great deal of attention throughout both the professional and human consequences of Corona and that we have, in fact, taken quite large political decisions together, for example. on both this summer and here for the winter exam and now again for the summer exam to provide them with a flexible framework because it is an extraordinary situation. Unlike if we are dealing with primary or secondary school, there is very great local freedom and very big difference between the educations we have in our field. So the most important thing on our part is to provide a framework within which they can navigate, for example. the right to extra su-clips if they are delayed due to corona, or to handle their internships or provide them with flexible frameworks to hold the exam. I am proud that we have done so together. It does not require weekly meetings, but I acknowledge that it could be appropriate to have a discussion again soon, just as we have had it on a regular basis over the period. In fact, I do not recognize the fact that there are some courses which have been completely closed down for many months. It is the case that it has been an ongoing political priority, including on the part of the rapporteur's party, that as soon as possible, we let some people in, and we have also made a political appeal that they were not allowed in every week so that everyone was allowed out of their rooms at times.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172250	Then it is Mrs Kathrine Ammitzbøll for a final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172252	It's handled differently out there. There are, for example: some at CBS who haven't been on their education yet. So it's also about following up on why it's been handled so differently from place to place. But we are also calling for a plan for what we can do about the misfortune that is out there now, and we are asking for a meeting as rapporteurs. It surprises us that we have been in the second wave for a long time also since before December that we are not being summoned to a meeting, but only have written exchanges about extra su-clips. It is a technicality, of course they must have extra su because they do not have their study work etc. When is it that we can come to a meeting and have a proper discussion about the situation and get a proper status on how things stand in our education?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172344	In fact, we have had political discussions on many occasions, including on other occasions, when, fortunately, we have taken a number of major initiatives across political parties for aid packages, which have repeatedly covered the field of education and research. And the questioner's party has had occasion here to take responsibility time and again during this pandemic. I'd like to sign for that. It is a very important task that we have together, but here too there is a great deal of responsibility for out-of-town. They are working hard out there and doing the best they can, and what we must do politically is to secure the framework for that. This is also needed in the coming months, and that is why I would like to make a commitment once again that we will be discussing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172428	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and thank you to the questioner for the question. Then there are no more questions for the Minister of Education and Research today. In return, Mr President, the Minister for Economic Affairs has asked the first question here. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172445	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172447	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister believe that the European Commission's roadmap for sustainable corporate governance, in which corporate governance is fundamentally changed, includes: By removing the influence of shareholders and putting political stakeholders on corporate boards in order to promote the sustainable agenda, is the right way to go and will the Minister accordingly endeavour to address such changes at national level, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, before they are implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172513	Thank you for a very good question. In order to solve the social challenges we face, such as meeting the objectives of the Paris Agreement and achieving together in line with the UN's global goals, it requires a responsible and committed Danish business community. The government therefore supports the intention of the Commission's forthcoming initiative on sustainable corporate governance. The Government agrees that corporate management should be supported in involving other interests and stakeholders in their decision-making processes and not simply focus on shareholders' sometimes short-term economic interests. However, we are not entirely in line with the Commission as regards the instruments they believe should be used to promote this development. The government believes that common EU rules for due diligence are a good instrument for achieving a more responsible business environment. The due diligence rules will ensure that European companies and their managements take responsibility for their value chains and for their own challenges and risks, whether climate, environment or human rights. Due diligence is also part of the Commission's consultation and here the government supports the Commission's ideas. Where we are more concerned is the part of the Commission's forthcoming proposal which calls for far-reaching action on the right of management and management responsibility. I also sense that the questioner is concerned about this. Businesses should be supported in their work on sustainability, but do not restrict their business space in terms of running their business in a way that management considers most optimal. It will be an intervention that can have significant negative consequences for Danish companies and their opportunities to support the sustainable transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172719	Here you go, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172723	Thank you for your reply, and thank you for an answer which I think is a little more robust than what the government has sent in its response to the Commission. It is a longer letter in English, so I am not going to read out of the one which I think is being spoken in a little more round terms about supporting the intentions, but the clear statement that the Minister is now making in relation to the intervention in the management and management responsibilities is not reflected in that. But I acknowledge that the Minister is a little more firm here. Because I fully share the view that this is why I am raising the issue that dealing with areas that are really important, such as sustainability and climate, still requires us to do sensible things and not compromise on some basic values and structures on which this society is based. And there it is therefore quite fundamental that it is the owners, the shareholders of a company, who decide how the company should operate within the framework that we have adopted here in the Folketing. Then they must not be forced to interfere in that process. So I'm glad. However, one thing that annoyed me in the Minister's reply was the statement that companies should not only take into account the often short-term interests of shareholders. I was very, very sorry about that, because much of what is in the Commission's proposal is based on a statement made by a few thousand companies, mainly British, and that report has thus been subjected to massive professional criticism for being objectively wrong. I would just like to know whether the Minister shares the criticism made of the basis for the Commission's recommendations or whether the Minister believes that this is the basis for a fair view of the fact that shareholders often have short-term interests when the Minister referred to it in his reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172930	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203172931	It depends a little on how to define short-term. I think it has to be said that it is not difficult to point to companies where shareholders have had short-term interests, if we, for example, have had short-term interests. If we do not, we would not have the large emissions that we have, and in particular we would not have had it historically. Similarly, there are many other environmental problems where I do not think it is difficult to see that there have been shareholders who have set consideration for their own earnings before the sustainability criteria. What we would have liked to achieve with this legislation when it comes is that everyone bears that responsibility, which I really think most Danish companies want at least, and I think the questioner and I agree on that. Then, of course, it is also important to stress that when we send out such a hearing answer, we try, of course, to write it in that tone and with the wordings that are now used in this type of writing, but I really think that it is very close to what I have just said to the questioner, but of course in English and not in Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173035	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173036	There's this tale of profit and that's what's behind it now that you can see that companies are paying out a greater share of profits in dividends and that it should be short-term. It is certainly for me to see a fundamental insight into how companies act and how companies try to concentrate on their core tasks, sell off side activities and pay dividends to shareholders, who can then invest themselves in new business areas. I believe that some of those who have given a hearing answer are from Sweden, and they say that 90%. the shares on the Swedish stock exchange are owned by investors focusing on the long-term. Then it is difficult to see that there should be such short-term interest in shareholders who override a longer-term perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173123	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173124	Well, you could say that if it doesn't exist out there, there's no problem. So nobody's gonna get hit by this either. I believe that it will be increasingly seen, both because of the focus of the European Commission and, therefore, the regulatory reality that will meet these companies in the future, but also because the market is changing and because the demands of consumers change and the demands of shareholders change. I think you'll see that it's not just 90 percent. as in the case described here by the questioner, but that a much larger proportion of companies will get more long-term glasses on, simply because that is what the market requires.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173208	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173209	Oh, I agree. For the market and investors all demand that companies are more sustainable. Investment flows to where companies are more sustainable, and it helps to push the green transition, that there are investors who want to put money in it and ensure that there is capital to be developed and invested. And I am sincerely pleased that the Minister is responding. But that also means that it is all the more important that the resistance which the Minister started by mentioning in relation to parts of this proposal is kept out, because the market and companies are moving in that direction in a very fast fashion. So let us promote it instead of making some very regulatory interventions that do away with some very basic things in a company.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173301	I really don't sense the big disagreement between us. I could leave it at that. However, if I am going to raise a single flag, it is true that, despite the fact that things are going very well in very large parts of the economy, and despite the fact that in Denmark in particular it is doing so in relation to the green transition, it is probably not possible to say that this is the case everywhere on the world market, let alone anywhere in Europe. That is why I welcome the fact that I am actually thinking that the Left agrees with the fact that the European Commission is looking at these things. It is also about making a level playing field, so that countries do not outperform each other on unfair terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173342	That is why it is also important that Europe does not give itself heavy sandbags to wear. Because if it becomes a European demand that makes it less attractive to invest in green businesses in Europe, then there is a risk that these investments will be moved to the United States or Asia. And, unfortunately, if you look at how much European companies are filling up in terms of investment today, we take up relatively less, and that is why you have to think about it here in Europe's competitiveness • Europe is the leader in the green transition • so that in our eagerness to do nothing we will do nothing that really weakens the green transition, where Europe is the leader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173417	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173419	I agree with that, and I guess I can also add that I think there is really a consensus in our parties that it will hopefully be the case that being green and sustainable is also a competitive parameter in the global market in the future. It is already in long stretches, but it is not everywhere. This is one of the things we seek to ensure with both Danish and European legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173440	Thank you. That concludes the question and the answer. The next question is to the Minister for Business by Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173455	And then the question can be read up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173459	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable that self-employed people who are cut off from making money during the closure of society should be given less corona compensation than employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173512	Let me start by saying that what is being asked in these coronatides is a question that is often asked here in these coronatides, and at an overall level one has to say that no, there is not so much reasonable in the situation, someone and there are many who are being hit hard. Now, of course, I know what the question means, and that is a perfectly fair question, so it is not really a criticism of it. It's just to make that point clear. What's behind this level is that you have to remember that if a regular employee who loses his job and has to go on cashier support and get that rate, we're talking about about about DKK 19,000. a month. Maybe that's a fairer comparison. Then you should also remember that for those who are on wage compensation, the average wage is about DKK 22,000, i.e. less than DKK 23,000. In addition, fortunately, there are some of these self-employed people who can make money alongside not all of them, but some can go beyond the fact that, of course, other costs can also be covered by the various general schemes, including fixed costs. So, overall, I think we are at a very good level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173633	Thank you for your answer. I would like to start by acknowledging that I think it is a good system that has been made, with compensation for wages, and I, in a way, work the money. I really do. What I just find it difficult to understand is the ideological reason why you want self-employed people to be placed at a financial disadvantage than employees. I believe that employees have bills to pay, and that they have self-employed people too; employees must have food on the table, so must self-employed people. That's why I just find it hard to understand why they don't want to be financially equal. What is the underlying argument that self-employed people should be placed at a disadvantage over employees? That is why my follow-up question to the Minister is this: is there an ideological reason why you want to put self-employed people at a disadvantage than employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173720-2	I do not think that self-employed people are disadvantaged than employees. Now the questioner says that self-employed people have costs and that employees also have costs. Yes, and there is the difference, of course, that self-employed people can recover their fixed costs in the vast majority of cases. After all, we have very good arrangements for what, fortunately, has also helped very, very many companies. In addition, self-employed people can also make money next door. We know that not everyone can, but many can, of course, via web sales etc., which of course we also call for, and which we fortunately also see a lot of people doing. Then I would just like to arrest the fact that it was supposed to be the case that employees were in general much better off. As I said, the average compensation is 22,000 kroner, where for the self-employed it is 23,000 kroner, and for people who are in an unemployment fund and lose their jobs, we are talking about about about 19,000 kroner, that is 4,000 kroner. lower than the 23,000 kroner involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173826	Yes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173827	However, the other schemes mentioned by the Minister, which are open to the self-employed, are to cover the costs of the company and not to cover the costs of the self-employed as a private individual. That's the comparison that's the right one to make, not what the others have. I understand that there are some people who can make a webshop, but it's hard for the independent coachman to sell products in a webshop when he can't drive people around to the events that are cancelled. So the fact that you can just make a webshop or sell gift cards is a little secluded from what there are a lot of small self-employed people in the Danish country who experience. It's not just something I'm making up. In January, 1,000 companies have gone bankrupt. That's twice as many as last year. Will the Minister not give them a hand and say: now we are putting them on equal terms with employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173909	Yes, please. And there was a word I overheard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203173911	I think that the questioner heard what I said, and therefore perhaps my words may also be slightly distorted when he says that you can just say that. I just didn't say that. I actually weighed my words on a gold weight right there and said a lot of cans. And I am well aware that there are some who cannot. But what is of course the case here is that for the individual person, the individual company, the individual grouping applies to different conditions. And, of course, there is a big difference between being self-employed and being an employee. Employees who pay to an unemployment fund for a lifetime can then get DKK 19,000, where self-employed people can get DKK 23,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174000	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174002	In January of this year there were 1,000 bankruptcies. That is more than twice as many than there were in January last year. So we have a lot of self-employed people who no longer just stand by the abyss and look out, but who have gone down. However, we still have some who are left on the cliff and fear that they too will go bankrupt, and we now have an opportunity to make an agreement on them because we have a majority. Then the Minister will not just answer here today quite frankly: why does the Minister not make an agreement with the Left to put the self-employed and the employees on an equal footing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174038	When a company goes down, it is probably not so much related to the cost we are talking about here, the 23,000 kroner. When the company goes down, it's probably due to the other expenses, the fixed costs and the things that are, of course, linked to this, but which are different. We are doing a great deal to help, and that is also why the last year in Denmark was actually the case that we had fewer bankruptcies despite the corona than we have had in the previous four years, but it does not change the fact that it is a very, very serious situation we are in now, which is why we have also extended the arrangements we have made and have now paid out about 27 billion. kr. to Danish companies. In addition, there are very good opportunities for borrowing, that is to say, increasing liquidity out there, compared with those who have postponed tax and VAT, etc. So, of course, we are constantly looking at whether we can do things better, but we have done quite a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174141	Just one last time, so the Minister will have the opportunity: will the Minister strike today and make an agreement? We can do it here right now... the Left and the Social Democratic Party have 90 seats together and say that it is unfair that the self-employed and employees are not treated equally, so now we, the Danish Parliament's two largest parties, are making an agreement. Self-employed and employees must be treated equally. It is unfair that self-employed people cannot receive the same financial assistance as employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174206	Thank you. Last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174207	Yes, if they had to be treated straight, you'd have to put the $23,000. down to 22,000 kroner, which is the average. I do not think that is what the questioner is referring to. We think that it is at the right level, also because you should compare it with a cashier who has a tariff of about DKK 19 000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174229	Thank you. I think we have given a little extra speaking time here, but we have not noticed that. It should also be me up here who noticed it with the help of the good secretary. It may happen, but that's the way it is. That's not gonna happen much. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174248	Ulla Tørnæs, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174250	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's position on placing a new reception centre for international labour in Esbjerg?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174259	Thank you for the question. We in the government are very concerned that contact with the authorities in Denmark must of course be as effortless as possible for international immigrants who come here legally to contribute to society. Today we have a total of four centres for the reception of international settlers. These are also the ones we call International Citizens Service centres. They are located around Denmark, and foreign workers and job seekers can get advice and help with the paperwork. We are constantly looking at how we can make the entrance to Authority Denmark even more accessible to this group, and in this context the government and previous governments have also been in dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities on a new model for the centres, focusing on simplifying cooperation and opening hours that match local needs. More specifically, the Ministry of Employment, in cooperation with my Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Taxation, entered into discussions with the National Association of Municipalities on a possible new model prior to the negotiations on the municipalities' economy for 2021. In this context, we did not quite get the ends to meet, and we expect to resume those discussions during this spring, but it is still too early to say anything more concrete about the progress. It is also the intention that the number of these centres should be discussed in the long term, but before we can decide whether and where to set up a centre, we must have an agreement with KL on the overall framework for a forward-looking model. I can also inform you that I have recently received a request from Jesper Frost Rasmussen, mayor of Esbjerg, who is willing to house such a new centre in the municipality. I appreciate that very much, and I have of course also noted that they have some opportunities in Esbjerg that they can offer, but of course I cannot stand here and promise too much at this stage. Finally, it is important for me to stress that if there are to be changes in the model behind the centres, this will have to be done in cooperation with the municipalities, and this also applies to the location of a possible new centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174456	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174458	Thank you very much for your answer, which, of course, outlines the situation and thus also the challenge that you actually have in the whole of West Jutland. For yes, it is true that today there are four centres, but they are located in what I will allow myself to call East Denmark in this context; that is, if you drag a line down through the Jutland ridge, you will see that there is not a single center west of the Jutland ridge. And I would just like to take this opportunity to point out to the Minister that I think that is wrong. I want a Denmark in balance, a Denmark in better balance, and if you are to be able to accept international labour properly, and this is also needed in West Jutland, you must of course have the same opportunities to welcome the labour that you have if you are a company in, for example. Odense or Funen at all. I find it deeply, deeply regrettable that the government and the KL have not been able to reach a common agreement. I know it was not only in connection with this municipal agreement; in fact, it was also discussed in the previous municipal agreement. So it is a longer process ahead of us. That really brings me to the point by asking the Minister whether the Minister will agree that there must of course be the same service for companies that need international labour throughout the country. After all, it is not fair to spend half a day or a whole working day going on, for example. Odense or Aalborg, or wherever it may be, if it is a company in Holstebro. I simply do not think it is right to have a map such as that which appears when it comes to such a reception centre. However, I am glad that the Minister has noted that at least in Esbjerg there is ready to house such a centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174701	I agree that we need a Denmark in balance, and it is true that today the centres are located in Copenhagen, Odense, Aarhus and Aalborg. So out of the country's five regions, four of them have such a centre; only the Region of Zealand does not have a centre. But it is true that with the geographical location they are all located east of the Jutland ridge; that is quite correct. And I also think that as politicians here at Christiansborg, we have a responsibility to ensure that companies, wherever they are located, have good and easy access to the authorities and that they should not run around to ten different agencies, but that everything can be arranged as far as possible in one place. That's what's all the thinking behind these centers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174742	Here's to the questioner, Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174743	I am really, really glad that the Minister has taken note of the fact that there is no centre west of the Jutland ridge. Then I also hope that the Minister has taken note of the fact that in the request made by Mayor Jesper Frost Rasmussen from the municipality of Esbjerg, there are in fact six other municipalities which have exactly the same approach to this issue as Jesper Frost Rasmussen expresses, namely that one lacks a centre in the western part of Jutland and that it is not reasonable to travel more than 100 km to get the same service as if one were living near such a centre. So, overall, it is seven municipalities that have approached the Minister in order to ensure that we have the opportunity to provide the international labour force with the services which, of course, those people are also entitled to. I hope that the Minister has taken note of that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174842	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174843	I noticed that, and I understand that the mayor of Esbjerg has contacted his neighbouring mayors in order to ensure greater political, regional policy, support for the desire for a centre located in Esbjerg. There is no point in all 98 municipalities working for each of them to have such a centre, because there is no basis for that. I have also noticed that the mayor of Esbjerg has approached the management in KL with his wish, and I also think it is quite appropriate to go that way, because we in the government are negotiating with KL and would very much like a common model for financing these centres and would also like that if more addresses are to be opened, then this will happen in cooperation with KL and after discussions with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174934	Thank you. Then that is the final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203174936	If you look at Esbjerg alone, that is to say one of the seven municipalities that have jointly approached the Minister, then it is actually the case that no less than 1,500 people, international workers, need the services that you can get at such a centre. 1,500 people enter the municipality of Esbjerg a year. Will the Minister take this into account when making an agreement with KL as soon as possible, I hope, but at least at the latest in the context of the forthcoming economic negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175016	That's the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175017	Well, I think that's quite natural: that you look at where the demand is. And it is not a secret that not only in West Jutland, but in Jutland in general, there are a lot of industrial companies that export out of the country and therefore also have workers who enter the country and who perform key functions. And it is absolutely central to our competitiveness that it can be done low-bureaucratic, fast and with a high level of service, and that you should not first contact the tax administration, then the immigration authorities and then a job center, but that you can fix everything under one roof. So I'm really glad we have these centres, and I can easily see the need for us to have more than four. I just very much want to secure the location in collaboration with the National Association of Municipalities, and there the inquiry that comes from Esbjerg, I hope, will mean something in the National Association of Municipalities; at least it has meant something to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175105	Thank you. Then the next question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration from Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175118	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for Danes and their foreign spouses to be denied marriage reunification simply because they are resident in a place which until 2018 was designated as a exposed residential area when the area is today a well-functioning and secure area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175147	There should be no doubt that it is deeply regrettable that what is called the housing claim list for spouse reunification has not been updated as it should have been. It's a mistake, and there are no good excuses. It is a mistake that has been made in the Department of Foreign Affairs and Integration and for which I am therefore responsible. I can inform you that a total of seven refusals to combine spouses have been made with reference to the housing requirement since the list was introduced in 2018. I can also inform you that, fortunately, the lack of update has not been significant in the vast majority of the seven cases. But if a wrong decision has been made, of course it is too much. I cannot comment further on specific cases which have been dealt with in the Foreign Affairs Council or are being dealt with in the Foreign Affairs Council or in the Foreign Affairs Board and, as the questioner knows, I cannot stand here in the Parliament hall and pass on information about specific persons. However, I can inform you that the Ministry has informed both the board and the name, i.e. those who make decisions in the cases, of the lack of updating of the list. The housing claim list must now be updated so that we avoid any error decisions in the future. It's self-evident. In addition, I can say that we have of course sent the answer that I have also given to the questioner and the Danish Parliament, but with a little more in-depth information than what I am telling here, both to the Foreigners' Board and to the Foreigners' Board, so that we ensure that decisions are not now taken on the basis of an outdated announcement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175323	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175324	It's a confession case. The rules for Danes who find love abroad have become so complicated that not even the Ministry can find out for itself. For 2 years a list has not been updated, and now there is one specific person from Skanderborg who has been expelled from Ukraine. He cannot become a parent with his wife. This child, who is a Danish citizen, is to be born in Ukraine. Of course, they are uncertain about that. They meet all the requirements and should have been together if the Ministry had done its job. After all, this is a gross, gross mistake made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. I'd call it gross negligence. That is why I have two questions for the Minister: what has been set in motion by internal investigations within the Ministry, public inquiry, and what else needs to be done to find out how such a serious error with such serious consequences for Danes who have found love abroad can happen? What's going on there? The second is of course: what will the Minister do to bring them back together, at least in this one case, but also in other cases that have been separated by mistake? Because in this particular case, they might have to wait 24 months, two years before they get a correct decision. What will the government do to ensure that these families can be together as they actually have the right, if you could find out how to settle matters according to the correct rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175510	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175511	First of all, my main focus has been to stop the accident, just as they say about first aid. In other words, we should not take any more decisions on the basis of an announcement that is too old. This is why we have informed both the Foreigners' Board and the Foreigners' Board that the Ministry has unfortunately not had this list updated. This also means that the cases in which the dwelling is located in an area covered by the housing claim list are suspended. Of course, the Foreigners' Board does not make decisions in cases where the housing claim is not decisive for the outcome of the case. This means that if there are other conditions that are not met, the Foreigners' Board will refuse to reunite a spouse. And, of course, the board will grant a permit in those cases where the conditions for marriage are met.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175603	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175604	The Minister will have his chance again, because the Minister has not stopped the accident. I'm gonna ask this question in November, and in December, this Danish-Ukrainian couple will be separated even if they're expecting a child. So you haven't stopped the accident. The accident's going on. There are two people who must be parents together, who should be allowed to live together in Denmark, but now they must become parents separately, and a small Danish citizen must be born in Ukraine instead of in Denmark. Surely something can be done, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175637	In other words, the second step of first aid is to provide first aid, and in this specific case, of course, it is the case that cases settled on a false basis must be resumed, and I have a clear expectation that the authorities, i.e.. The Foreigners' Board and the Foreigners' Board, of course, live up to their case handling responsibilities. That is why I find it difficult to imagine that it will take 24 months, to which the honourable Member refers, before a new decision is taken on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175707	But the current processing time in the Foreigners' Board is 14 months, and then it is sent back to the Foreigners' Board, where it averages 10 months. That's 24 months. Then you can be lucky to get ahead, but the worst scenario for this couple is 2 years old, and at least it isn't certain that they can get to it at birth, which is in a few months' time. So can the Minister not take the initiative to correct this error and not just stop future errors?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175741	I have a clear expectation that the authorities handling the case will do so in the correct way, and the correct way would not be to put a case taken on the basis of incorrect information at the bottom of the pile. That would not be the correct way. So I'm quite confident that they're gonna get that handled, both the Foreigners' Board and the Foreigners' Board. It is not them either, I must hurry to say, who has actually made a mistake. After all, they've administered according to the orders we've issued from the Ministry. It's in the Ministry, the fault lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175815	Thank you to the author, thank you to the Minister. The next question is to the Minister for Employment of Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175829	Thank you, President. Will the Minister consider whether it is reasonable that the time allowed for handling a committee question should be up to six months when the normal time limit for replying, cf. Paragraph 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing. Six is at four weeks?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203175855	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl for the question. This is important to me and I am endeavouring to deal with committee questions in accordance with current guidelines and within the general deadlines for replying. Against this background, I can inform you that I have asked the Ministry of Employment to look into the committee issues that have been raised after the summer break and until November last year. I can inform you that, during that period, the response will be more than 95 per cent in good time. of the questions within the four-week period, including finally up to nine out of ten of the questions asked. In this respect, it is also worth noting that the handling of the covid-19 situation has at the same time seized a great deal of resources in my ministry and led to considerable work pressure in connection with a series of urgent legislative proceedings to ensure that we get through this health crisis well. So I kind of think that both I and my ministry have done a real job and done a job in a challenging time that I would like to stand up for. Having said that, however, some committee questions may be of a scale where, unfortunately, it is not possible to have an adequate answer within the normal time limits for replying. This has also been the case with the questions in question, since answering the questions requires greater modelling. Calculations have also been delayed in this case due to an update and consolidation of the basis of assessment underlying the calculations. To this end, it should be noted that, in accordance with the applicable guidelines, final replies can be sent whenever an adequate reply can be given. I have therefore also kept the committee regularly informed of the state of play and when the replies are expected to be sent, in accordance with Parliament's guidelines. As last reported to the Employment Committee in letters of 14 and 23 December 2020, the issues are being prepared and are expected to be submitted as soon as possible and by February at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180048	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180050	One of the questions I cannot get an answer to is: can the Minister state how many fellow early retirement and non-retirement pensioners are affected by mutual dependants? The question has been raised with a view to identifying the tax situation of the persons concerned, and it should be simple for the Ministry to provide answers to the questions, as Payout Denmark assesses co-life and common housekeeping before the benefit regulation is made. Now we have been waiting for 41⁄2 months for answers to this and other questions, but we have not received an answer yet, even though the normal deadline under the Rules of Procedure is four weeks. Why don't we get answers? When are we gonna get answers? Does the Minister think it is reasonable that we should wait so many months to get answers to our questions, and how does the Minister think we should carry out our parliamentary control of the government when we cannot get answers to our questions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180201	I can assure you, sir. Torsten Gejl states that neither I nor the government nor, for that matter, the Ministry has any interest in not answering if it is simple and quick to answer. That is also why we have answered nine out of ten questions in good time and within the time limit for replying. We think it is important to answer Members of Parliament so that we have a full debate on the issues we are discussing; in this case, it is something that I also know, Mr President. Torsten Gejl and his party are very concerned about, namely spouse dependency. We will give a full answer as soon as we are able to give a full answer. Sometimes we are able to deliver it very quickly and already within the time limit for replying, sometimes it requires greater model calculations, and sometimes the answer is more complex, but we answer as quickly as we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180236	In connection with my very simple question as to when fellow pensioners and early retirement pensioners will have to pay gift fees if they receive money from each other for medicine or dental bills, I have been sent from the Minister for Employment to the Minister for Taxation and back to the Minister for Employment without receiving an answer. Does the Minister for Employment think it reasonable that I should be left without having received an answer to the simple question, although I have asked the question several times orally in writing to both ministers and ministries?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180314	As I said before, we have no interest or pleasure in either withdrawing answers that we are able to give or not complying with the time limits for replying. But this is a clear example of the fact that, if you do not comply with the deadlines for replying, you are allowed to answer why you do not comply with the deadlines for replying, and we have no interest in that. But I think so too, sir. Torsten Gejl very aptly describes that it has not been such a simple question to answer since it has also been sent back and forth between ministries. It is a complex amount and we will try to give the full answer, as Mr. Torsten Gejl is looking for, as quickly as we can at all, and what we have recently forwarded to the Employment Committee is here in February.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180358	I think that the simplicity of my question shows that there is not really proportionality between it and all the time it has to take to answer it. Could the reason why I am not given an answer be that I am pointing to a tax grey area in which thousands of early retirement and pensioners find themselves without the ministers knowing how to deal with it? In other words, it is a grey area which means that people with the lowest incomes risk being taxed five times. Is it because the matter does not need to be raised that I simply do not get the answer to my question?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180429	I can assure you, sir. Torsten Gejl says that we have no interest in things not being elucidated as it is being demanded. Nor do I have the impression that there is some kind of deep state construction between the Ministry of Employment as a system and the Treasury as a system. We are interested in providing the answers that Mr. Torsten Gejl can use something in his parliamentary work, and we will do so as fully as we possibly can. But I think what might be the explanation is that Mr. Torsten Gejl certainly hits into something that is a complex size and therefore not so simple to respond adequately to within the prescribed time limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180506	Thank you. The next question is for the Minister of Culture, and it is by Eva Kjer Hansen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180518	Does the Minister agree with a majority of parties that Fredericia Theatre should retain its 5th grant?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180528	Thank you very much. Indeed, it is my experience that the author's party and the government, which together represented a majority at the rapporteur's meeting, which was shortly before Christmas with the cultural rapporteurs, where we discussed Fredericia Theatre, would like to proceed with the 5th allocation. However, what was also the discussion was that it would be good if there were a wider majority. There were various questions, for example. on the construction of the new theatre in relation to activities, organisation and economics. Therefore, I have asked the municipality of Fredericia to submit further material. It was on 14 January this year that Fredericia City Council joined the foundation of the new Fredericia Musical Theatre, and a board was appointed in the same round. The following day, 15 January, the Ministry of Culture received the detailed material requested by the cultural rapporteurs. The Ministry of Culture has now examined the material thoroughly and has also obtained an opinion from the Danish Arts Foundation on the artistic potential of the new theatre; it was also one of the points discussed at the Culture Rapporteur's meeting. Against this background, at the next meeting with the cultural rapporteurs, I will discuss whether the new theatre should be supported. We agreed on this before the winter holidays, and it will be next week that we will discuss it at our cultural rapporteur's meeting. In this context, we shall discuss just how high the grant should be and whether the theatre should be placed under section 5 of the Act of Performing Arts, which the author's party and the government discussed at the last meeting before Christmas. When I say this here, however, I would just like to say that I find it strange to have the question here today, because it is my impression that both I and the Ministry of Culture have kept the questioner's party very closely informed, because it is precisely we who have given these statements at an early stage, and so they are now being substantiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180733	Here you go, Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180734	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. As far as I remember, this is the first time I have heard so clearly a statement by the Minister to maintain an appropriation for the Fredericia Theatre. But what I'm asking is if they can keep their 5th grant. And now I hear the Minister questioning what the amount should be, and even saying that the next rapporteur meeting will have to discuss whether all the reservations on the part of the Minister should be discussed. What is the Minister in doubt about continuing to provide support at a similar level as in the past to Fredericia Theatre?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180819-2	As I clearly explained, my view was that the author's party, the Left, and the government were not in any doubt as to the level at which we wanted the grant, but we also wanted a broader consensus. For that is the way we usually keep cultural life high in this way, both in the national but also in the regional and local context. That is why we would like to do the extra round, and that is why I still do not want to conclude completely definitively, although of course you could, when you can see that there is a narrow majority. But I think it would be a good idea for us to have more parties with Fredericia Theatre. That is why I have asked for this further information, and that is why I would like to await the conclusion of this debate next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203180905	Well, thank you for the fine intentions of getting a broader consensus. So, as I know, there were also several parties who supported continuing support, and I think the Danish People's Party in particular has been very clear in their announcement. But now that there is a clear majority, which can of course be wider, there may be some parties that have not yet given clear reports, it does not change my question as to why it is that the Minister is expressing that the next meeting will have to decide whether Fredericia Theatre should be supported and what the amount should be. What I am asking for is the Minister's position on support for Fredericia Theatre and that the aid should be at the level it has been at so far. Why is it that the Minister will not express his opinion on the Fredericia Theatre?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181000	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181000-2	Well, I certainly do. So I would like to repeat it when the questioner asks for it, namely that it was the author's party, the Left, and the government, together before Christmas, agreed that this § 5 allocation was the way we wanted to go. But we were also and that is why I have taken the time to get this further information, and that is with the hope that next week we can get even more parties to support the continuation of a strong Fredericia Musical Theatre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181033	So the Minister's recommendation is that an amount of aid should be maintained at the level of the previous year, which has been obtained with the 5th grant, that the amount should be at the level of the previous year. That is the Minister's recommendation, and what remains is to find out how many parties support a grant at that level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181056	I must admit that I have followed Parliament's Question Time, even before I came in here, but I still find it strange that one can stand here as a minister and be asked questions repeatedly about the same thing when one makes it as clear as one can. As the author, who, like previous Minister himself, has been in exactly the same situation and has tried to get a good negotiating process with some rapporteurs, well knows that it is not good if you strike too hard for too soon. I have, the Social Democrats have, the rapporteurs have, the local Social Democrats have clearly said where the Social Democrats are and the government has made its position perfectly clear at the rapporteur's meeting. And that is what I am saying here: the questioner's party and the government agreed that we would like to proceed with the section 5 grant, but that we would like to wait for further information before reaching the final conclusion. It's coming next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181142	Thank you. The last question is also addressed to the Minister for Culture by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181148	Thank you. What is the Minister's justification for the fact that Fredericia Theatre has not yet been told that they will retain their status as § 5 theater?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181202	Thank you. Thank you very much for the question. This follows closely on from the previous one, which I think we can continue, because my answer will also follow on from the answer I have just given to the questioner. As mentioned, Fredericia Musical Theatre in the new construction was first established by Fredericia City Council on 14 January, and therefore it cannot be said that the theatre can retain a status as theater under § 5 of the Act of Performing Arts. That status was, of course, the previous Fredericia Theatre, which unfortunately had to close last year in March. But a new political decision has to be made as to whether the new musical theater can then gain a similar status under section 5 of the Act of Performing Arts, and I have, as I have just explained, apologized for the repetition, obtained further proof of how the new structure is screwed together, so that it can form the basis for a political decision next week. And that's why there hasn't been a final return to the municipality of Fredericia. However, as I said, the Ministry has now received and also analysed and published the material needed to enable us to make the final political decision next week at the Cultural Rapporteur's meeting, so that both the municipality of Fredericia and the Fredericia Musical Theatre can go on winter holidays with the final clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181326	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181327	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I understand this as an undertaking that, before the winter break, by week 7, the Minister has given a clear message to the Fredericia Theatre. Then we have achieved a good deal today. Thank you for that commitment. So I would like to ask the Minister: is there anything in the work that has then gone on from Christmas to now, which changes the decision taken at the rapporteur's meeting before Christmas, that a broad majority would like to maintain the current amount at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181359	As I also explained in the previous question, we are in the process of negotiating, and the last material has been distributed here earlier today. So I have not had the opportunity to obtain comments from all the cultural rapporteurs, and although the government can do many things, we cannot form a majority here in the Danish Parliament, but the last time we met in the culture group, there was a majority in favour of moving forward with a section 5 grant. I only hope that the material sent and analysed will support this, so that several parties will want to agree to that conclusion, but it will have to wait for the final debate next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181435	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181436	It is very fun to see a minister questioning our way of asking questions and having the debate here in the Folketing, and when it comes to replying, reference is made to what other cultural rapporteurs might think, because I asked the Minister precisely if something had changed since the broad majority before Christmas said: we want to retain an appropriation for Fredericia Theatre as before. What I am simply wondering is why it is so difficult for the Minister to be clear that if it is up to the Minister and the majority that was already before Christmas, then it is clear that Fredericia Theatre maintains their funding at the previous level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181521	Thank you very much. That is because I saw the questioner's question as a general one. I find that the questioner would like me to conclude on this and use the majority that is now. It may also be that this is the result, but my experience with negotiations is that if you want a wider majority, you also have to give room to the issues that may be involved. There was a clear majority before Christmas consisting of among others. The author's party and the government who wanted to go ahead with the 5th grant, but the questioner himself must also ask his own cultural rapporteur why he then chose to take this time to get it further substantiated. I think that the information we have received only supports the fact that we can go further, but we must turn that around in the culture group before the conclusion is drawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181609	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181609-2	I think we have seen that it is extremely useful for these opportunities to ask questions here on Wednesday afternoon. So I would like to end by thanking the Minister for agreeing to the majority that emerged before Christmas to retain the grant for the Fredericia Theatre. I hear the Minister say that she is clear about this and agrees with it, and I also understand that the Minister will ensure that Fredericia Theatre is informed next week, so that we can enter week 7 with sure assurance that the subsidy will be maintained at the level of the past. In fact, I am very pleased with our dialogue here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181649	The minister for last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181650	Thank you very much. Thank you for your recognition. In this way, I also hope that the questioner will acknowledge that this whole process has in fact been agreed by the author's party and the government was the good process of obtaining such a broad majority and so well-substantiated a basis for decision, because to give such a large grant, which is one hundred percent politically determined, we must also be able to explain and defend against the many other theaters who had also offered this appropriation. So I certainly look forward to being able to send this answer next week, provided that there is still a large majority. That sounds to the questioner as if there is, but the conclusion will be drawn next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181731	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210203181736	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 4 February 2021, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
