ParlaMint-DK_20210602090002	The meeting is open. The Minister for Industry has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on business and regulation 2019-2020. Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in the Parliamentary Times. The closing debate today will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be seen directly on the Danish Parliament's website and subsequently also on demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602090105	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption is not postponed. We must start with a justification. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602090124	Thank you. I am not going to make such a long, critical introduction this time about why we are going to meet today, but just say that, as we can see, the whole of the Folketing really thinks it is so good to hold on to the fact that we are ending the parliamentary year with a question debate, a final debate: what can the Prime Minister say about the domestic and foreign policy situation? I guess the ball's given up. I'm looking forward to today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602090152	Thank you. This means that we must then have an answer, and that is why it is now the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602090205	Last month I visited a business school in Hvidovre. The students were back, and they were happy about that. It is difficult to learn how to change the brakes on a car at home from the sofa without having the tools between your hands or to become a builder without actually standing with a brush and paint cans, and it is uphill to learn about power and wires without being physically present. Here too, the corona has had consequences. So what do you do? One of the teachers, Daniel Svendsen, teaches on the main course for passenger car mechanic. He told with contagious enthusiasm, though behind the mouthband, that he had now begun to meet in 45 minutes before the morning, and that by the way he expected the same of his students. Anyone who wanted to make up for it could step up already at 8:00. 7.30. Maybe at first some people were complaining a little, but most of them got up and were ready. Honestly, I lost my heart that day out in Hvidovre. For it is teachers like Daniel Svendsen who create our society and make the difference. This is the power that I am experiencing in many places in Denmark right now... a struggle spirit, an optimism, a willingness to work harder to go further. We have done well through the pandemic thanks to the great efforts of the people, the outstanding adaptability of all parts of the society, the business community, the authorities, the health services, and the solid and broad cooperation here in the Danish Parliament on resolute crisis management. Thank you to everyone in the Chamber for that. As a community, Denmark stands stronger than for many years. We have done well, and what do we do now? We could choose just to be content, to say to each other that we made it, and sit back, let development go its course and adjust a little along the way. That option is there, but it is not the one we have to choose. We must go the opposite way: reform, innovation, education, job creation and growth. Right now we have a much better starting point than anyone dared hope for in the dark weeks of spring 2020. We have the strength. Now we must find the political will for change. Our Danish handling of the pandemic shows above all that there is always a choice. We picked this one right, and now we have to move on. We need that experience. Because what did we do? We tamed the tiger. When we can combat a global pandemic because we in Denmark decide to do so, we can do much more than that. Imagine if we go to the other major challenges of society with the same determination; if we dare ask questions, also by the established truths such as. the claim that we cannot do anything about the increasing centralisation of our country, or that we just have to accept that inequality is increasing. What if we now hide the automatic reactions a little away and end the false contradictions and for example. insists that the green transition in Denmark should both create a more sustainable society and create jobs instead of sending them out of the country. We're doing a good job on that. What if we really find the courage to address the major challenges that changing governments and the majority of the people have been trying to solve for decades: the climate crisis, the failure of integration, the excessive bureaucracy in the public sector, the too many young people who are not getting an education? Instead of not thinking that others have tried it before us, let us go to the task undetected and with a regained belief that the answer does not necessarily have to be given in advance; that politics is not just drift, administration and to turn a little bit on the buttons, but that politics is exactly as we have shown it for almost a year and a half in the corona management: dreams, visions and hopes of a stronger, greener and fairer Denmark. We have a unique opportunity to build on top of what Denmark has shown its worth in this crisis. But it may take us first and foremost to do as the students and teachers in the West Region do... that we start to get up earlier. A prime minister's speech here at the graduation debate usually looks backwards, back on the parliamentary year. This year I'm gonna do it differently, I'm gonna look forward. The government is now preparing an ambitious reform programme. We want to increase growth and prosperity, we want to make Denmark both richer and greener, but above all we want to improve our skills. We will launch the reform work with a 10-year perspective and we will address all the crucial structural challenges in our society for the Danish economy. Denmark has a strong welfare society, and that must be security and freedom throughout our lives. Arne got his pension, and that's fair. Our social model is unique, but the welfare society does not come on its own, because welfare is first and foremost dependent on high employment. It is absolutely crucial that many in Denmark work, that we are well educated and that companies have the best conditions. Today, I will focus on three challenges which are actually very different, but which, after all, are about the same thing. We must ensure that more people get to work, and we must do so for the sake of the individual, to have a job and to contribute to society is one of the most important things in a person's life. And for the sake of the economy, too high employment is a vital prerequisite for growth and prosperity. Therefore, we must never, as a society, abandon people, expect too little and do not make demands. This applies to education, where there are too many young people who are lost and where we do not train for the jobs that are needed. This applies to the labour market, which at least for some people is becoming increasingly uncertain and less organised, and this is unfortunately the case for many people, especially with a non-western background, who go home on cash benefits without having a job to stand up to. First, a few words about young people and education. On the one hand, it is a fantastic success story, because more and more young people are taking an education, more and more young people are taking a long education. I think we must expect our own children to be better than ourselves, and that is good. But there is also a reverse, a story about too many who experience defeat and perhaps discouragement. Too rarely do we talk, including here in the Danish Parliament, about all the many young people who are not doing jobs or training. Every fifth young person in Denmark stands at 25 years of age without an education. It's almost a disaster... and almost 50,000 young people under the age of 25 aren't doing jobs or training today, while we are discussing here in the Parliament hall, they haven't completed a youth education. All too often they are called the rest group, which is actually a pretty horrible word. Imagine giving this message to so many young people that they have been left over in our Denmark, abandoned by a society, while the rest of us just drive on. If any of you young people are watching today, I would like to give you a special greeting, because Denmark needs you and Denmark needs you. It is not you who are the bad company, it is not you who have a weak character, it is the rest of us who apparently have a cheap imagination, because in here for too many years we have accepted the inequality that so many people stand outside. When we talk about inequality, there is often a little too narrow a focus only on economic differences. Economic inequality is obviously important, and I am also concerned that differences are growing and that some are drifting away, but the inequality in health, the inequality in education, it limits, it restricts, it holds back, it is fundamentally unfair and it is wrong in Denmark. A few years ago, I had the great pleasure of visiting VUC in Struer. I talked to a group of younger women, some of them alone with their young children, and many had to drive a long way by car just to take care of their school and, by the way, just as far the other way, and there was time to pick up the child before the day care centre closed. Many of these young women, perhaps with a family background, where taking education has not been the most normal, are in fact taking an education in Denmark despite, and they really had only one common condition. But at some point it may be too difficult to train, for example. If it stays too far there, then there will be more who will, unfortunately, give up. I mention this because I think that this perspective has been lacking in the discussion that has followed the government's proposal to relocate education to the whole of Denmark. After all, it is not a battle for education between the country and the city, and I myself have a long higher education, and we need strong and healthy studies and research environments for skilled scientists and women, for highly trained specialists, for knowledge workers, but we also need to be able to live and train everywhere in our country, and that requires us to have the courage to make some political choices in here, and those choices will not everywhere be equally popular. But the alternative, if we do not do so now, is that a biased development, with which no politician has ever asked the Danes whether they agree, i.e. centralisation, is allowed to continue, so that centralisation eventually runs over us. We must not allow that to happen, and that is why we must really turn things around. We have to do that on another point too. Even now, the situation is that we are not adequately educating for the jobs that are in the public and private sectors and the jobs that come into the public and private sectors. It is not only a problem for the company that cannot provide blacksmiths or electricians for production or for the nursing home that lacks well-educated sosu assistants to take the night shift in the dementia department, because that is a problem for all of us. It is in danger of hampering growth, slowing down progress and tightening the ground for the future, which, moreover, is so incredible for Denmark. We are going to need labour, probably already this year, because it is going so well for the Danish economy, and it will be a bigger problem for each year that goes on specially skilled labour. Some will certainly ask why it is actually such a big problem. Let me perhaps try to illustrate this with something very important to the Danish Parliament, namely the green transition. We have huge winds on the green agenda, we show the whole world that the green transition is not taking place in Denmark at the expense of society's development, but on the contrary is developing our society, creating growth and lots of local jobs. Climate and environment are probably the area where Denmark can make the biggest difference globally. We have a head start and we have an opportunity for the green solutions and technologies of the future to be developed in precisely our country. In the autumn we entered into a unique strategic partnership with India, a few days ago we strengthened our strategic partnership with South Korea, and Danish companies could conclude new green agreements. In the autumn, there will be a commitment on the German market, and as soon as possible, I am taking the lead in a business drive in the United States, and in the European Union we have decided that the economic recovery in the Union after the corona must be both digital and green. Thousands of billion public crowns have been set aside for green recovery across Europe. In other words, there are incredibly good opportunities for the Danish solutions, and we must seize them. In November, Britain will host the global climate summit in Glasgow, COP26, and already Denmark will be noticed. We do a lot at home, and that's good, but in reality Denmark's fingerprints in the world are much bigger than that. We deliver green solutions in the field of energy and energy efficiency to the very large emitters China, India, the United States, and we have never stood stronger, but we risk not reaping the benefits of the green head start simply because we are going to lack labour. It's wrong. We need wind turbine technicians to build and service the wind turbines, we need electricians to set up charging stations, carpenters and masons to renovate buildings and installations, plumbers to set up heat pumps, automation engineers to develop the production of green hydrogen in Kolding, mechanics to the old Lindø Building yard on Funen, and up in Hirtshals we need nutrition assistants to carry out the sustainable conversion of professional kitchens. In other words, it is perhaps most important for the green conversion now skilled labour in Denmark. This applies not only to the green transition, it also applies to the pharmaceutical industry, to the food industry and to many others, and the reality is that large vintages of skilled workers are about to retire, and we do not have enough newly trained people to replace them. Only one in five students leaving the Danish primary school apply directly to vocational training, and that is far from the objective that a broad majority of this Parliament has set itself, and it is probably not yet another vocational school reform that is the answer, or at least what will solve all the problems. We have tried, changing governments, and it is as if it only becomes very, very small jumps on the ground. Perhaps the time has come for us to take a more fundamental one, and I know very difficult discussion of our education system in Denmark. For some children, the school has become too academic. It has become too theoretical and too little practical, and it is already starting in primary school. You've seen them the first day of school, either just before summer or at the beginning of August. They meet in with a backpack that is almost bigger than themselves, and plenty of goddamn courage in the heart. But it is not all our children who leave school 10 years later with the same energy and joy, so far from even. And we know them all: the boys who just can't figure out how to sit still, and the girls, and it can easily also be girls who just can't make those letters make sense in the draft. Perhaps the truth is that, although in many ways we have a good school, the question is whether the school is suitable for all our children. Perhaps the right thing is to let some of the children start later in school, and perhaps the answer is also to let some of those who are school-tired be allowed to go to school in a completely different way and in periods may not actually go to school, but instead to get out to work, get colleagues and start learning a subject and thus get the connection with the labour market that they can then then be allowed to build up on top. As I see it, and here there is something positive, our vocational schools right now, if we make some new decisions, have an opportunity that has not been had in the past. For all Denmark's young people, it is wildly committed to the climate struggle, and in reality it is the vocational schools that offer those educations to young people, where you can really make a difference to the climate and get a pride by using a subject to solve the problems of the future. Since it is the skilled workers who are largely the core forces of the climate, we must use vocational training as a lever for the green transition and in the reform work build the bridge between the educational choices of young people, or the lack of the same, and the Danish climate struggle. The next challenge I want to dwell on is our labour market. On long stretches we have an incredibly well-functioning, strong Danish labour market. There are proper pay and working conditions. There must also be financial security if you lose your job for a period of time. That's the way it is for most people, but not for everyone. Today we are now where almost one in three does not work in a full-time position: loose employees, callers, platform workers and people with zero-hour contracts or in unpaid internship; it has many names. They may be servants and drivers, but they may also be young architects, journalists or artists and many others. I think there are many reasons behind this, but just as many reasons there are, it is equally clear that there is a reverse, not least for many of the young people who are entering the labour market. For all of this can provide uncertain income, and it can give no or poor pension savings, poor maternity conditions when the little one joins, maybe no rights to continuing training and low cover for work injuries if the accident hits. It is too vulnerable for the individual and we know how wrong it can be if the accident is out if you have lost your job and your income from one day to the next and there is not a labour market and a model that grabs you. The Danish labour market model is largely built for employees on a full-time basis, but our labour market changes, of course, and the Danish model must be able to keep up as it has done before. Because if developments are allowed to run away from us, an increasingly large group of people can be left out of the organised labour market. It's all those who work in ways other than what we've been most used to. The Corona crisis, and many of you will remember how much discussion we have had on the setting up of aid packages in this regard, has shown that those we in fact previously called atypical employment have come of. Perhaps you have something as an employee and something as a self - employed person or something in between. This is particularly true in the field of culture. When the atypical becomes typical, it challenges our society in a completely different way. That's why we have to solve this challenge, too, and we're ready to seize the future. Companies must, of course, have the opportunity to find new business models and attract investment, but we must develop our Danish model so that it is still a well-organised labour market and it is maternity and pension, working environment and a proper salary that is the whole foundation. As a society, we need the unique Danish labour market model, where the social partners take a fantastic responsibility for our entire society. Just think of the 17 tripartite agreements that have been concluded during the Corona crisis. Thanks to trade unions and employers for their hard work. The Danish population has a strong link with the labour market, and that is good. And the vast majority of young people also take an education. If you put up ten Danes next to each other and they are between 18 and 59 years old, they have eight of them a job or are in an education. There are many people in Denmark who are helping to lift. And that is the way it should be, because otherwise it is not related to the economy or to our social contract. Unfortunately, there are parts of the population that are not counted in the positive figures, especially women who have roots in non-western countries. This is the third major challenge that I would like to pursue today. Out of ten women from the Middle East, North Africa, Afghanistan, Pakistan or Turkey, only four are working only four. That's too little. And from this platform, after the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister has said that more immigrant women are going to work without seriously solving the problems. And now I stand in the line today with the awareness that exactly this is going to require some difficult decisions, and also with the hope that the Folketing, the whole parliament, will take responsibility for itself and this time get it solved. And in this respect, it is not enough if everyone just says no. Because we have now accepted for decades that many women with an immigrant background are at home instead of having a job and contributing actively to Denmark, it should not remain so. There has been too much focus on everything you are entitled to in Denmark and too little focus on what you have a duty to do. I say this not least in relation to the discussion that is now taking place in relation to benefits. Instead of focusing only or primarily on how we set up the cash assistance system, I suppose it is primarily about getting more people into work. And therefore: How about, if we turn the whole mindset around and take as a basis that all adults in Denmark can of course work? Then there will be few exceptions due to disability or illness where people cannot, but how about if we turn it around and think and say and anchor that of course all adults in Denmark can work and contribute as a starting point and that we as a society express that expectation clearly? We are at the root of an economic recovery right now, and it is now that we have the opportunity to draw many more people into the labour market and insist that if you get a stay in Denmark, you have to support yourself. And if it is not possible to do so for a period of time, against expectation, the government will propose that, in return for its services, it be obliged, as a clear starting point, to contribute what is equivalent to a 37-hour working week. You don't show up, you don't get paid. The work logic must be established in the benefit system. In other words, the future of Denmark must be built now. We need enough hands and heads, and we need to be good enough to solve the tasks we have ahead of us. The reforms we are going to present will require quite a lot of all of us. But we also have a lot at stake, and we have a lot to win. When we look at a five to ten years ahead, the digital revolution will change the labour market and businesses. It will again make completely new demands on our education; the demand for green conversion and green solutions will increase; new and attractive markets will open up. The future is good for Denmark. Our strong position on digitisation, which every Dane brands daily when testing or now, fortunately, is being vaccinated, must be supported by a new digitisation strategy, for the first time both for the public and private sectors. And we need a long-term broad and ambitious plan to address the threats in the cyber area. The proud manufacturing companies in Denmark that create jobs and growth in all parts of the country by selling top quality in the world: you must have the best conditions, you must have better conditions. Denmark was, Denmark is and must remain a production country, just as Denmark is rich in small independent service companies. And those of you who have created a small business from scratch and maybe have a few employees: you haven't had it easy during this pandemic. You also deserve more recognition than the one you often experience. You are a crucial part of the industrial structure in Denmark. The government will therefore look broadly at how we strengthen Denmark's competitive power. New knowledge and business must be linked more closely. That is why we have increased the research and development allowance for companies and significantly increased the green research funds. In other words, business policy is at the heart of Denmark's economic policy, future technologies, exports and jobs. We live at home from all the things you other people do in the world. Fortunately, many countries other than Denmark are now putting the worst crisis behind them. The yoke of the Corona can be shaken by our shoulders. The export markets are on their way back, and Danish companies must be ready. This is where it matters. We have a solid starting point for moving forward. We chose to pursue a consistent crisis policy, an expansive financial policy and a policy that is essentially different from that followed by the financial crisis. That was wise, and now we see the results. The Danish economy has done well through the crisis. Unemployment has fallen, consumption is rising, exports are growing, and next year we expect the highest economic growth in 15 years. At the same time, Denmark in 2020, despite the corona crisis, had the relatively lowest deficit on public finances across the EU, and Denmark still has the highest international rating, AAA rating. Economic policy is responsible. There will still be costs to keep the infection down, to vaccines, when we expect to be vaccinated again and perhaps again and again, for investments in our preparedness and for testing, if necessary. There will certainly still be a need for targeted action and assistance for some industries and a professional backlog to be made up, but it is clear at the same time that there is no need for a real economic recovery on top of corona. The task is quite simply another. We must invest and make Denmark stronger. And when we can, it is due to the decisions we have taken together and again thanks to the entire Parliament. During the pandemic, 330,000 people have been discharged on pay compensation. The companies have contributed to some of the wage costs, the employees with some holidays, and so far the state has paid out 17 billion. kr. for wage compensation. Thousands of Danes, on the other hand, have not received a note. What if we had done the opposite? Think of all the expenditure that had been made on unemployment benefits and on cash benefits, not to mention the human costs of again having to pay for the crisis, the risk of losing ground in the labour market and never coming back, as we have seen in other crisis management. Those costs would not have been to bear either human or economic costs. And companies now have the huge advantage of not hiring new employees. I don't want you to teach them all over again. They still have the good old experienced employees. In other words, we have now achieved a competitive advantage vis-à-vis many other countries. We must make use of this in order to create what can become a unique growth adventure. I know that Danish business is ready to move. All of Denmark must be now. And in our eyes, this is the primary task. Today I have addressed three important and difficult societal challenges. We will present several important challenges during the summer. This time we will take time to dwell on the precise challenge picture and find the sustainable answers to the challenges of the future. And by the way, we're not going to claim that we have all the answers, but we'd like to find them with you, and I hope that everyone will take part in that debate. Another place where we should invite and where we want to invite for even closer cooperation is in the Kingdom community. Global interest in the Arctic and the North Atlantic is increasing. In the Commonwealth we have a common goal of low-voltage in the Arctic area, and right now that objective is under pressure. We have to deal with that together. I welcome the fact that we agree to take care of our open and democratic society and that we therefore have to put up the necessary safeguards against those who do not wish us well. The foundation for our security is made up of cooperation with the United States and NATO, something that all parties in the Commonwealth had the opportunity to discuss with the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, when he visited Denmark and Greenland recently. However, in the present and future security policy reality, the threats are rarely as clear as they were at one time. Often they will cross policy areas, and this means that it can be difficult to distinguish between what is a Greenlandic, Faroese or Danish responsibility. This places great demands on all of us in the Kingdom Community for closer dialogue and even more cooperation, including in foreign, security and defence matters. The government invites that. I look forward to continuing to develop the cooperation in the Kingdom Community in close dialogue with the Faroese Home Government and Greenland's new Naala Suisut and together with the North Atlantic mandates here in the Folketing. Thank you all for your cooperation. And I look forward to seeing both the Faroe Islands and Greenland again as soon as the corona situation permits. Those were words about the future, but now that I have the platform, I'm going to take a little back look at windy 2 years. 185 agreements have been concluded over the middle of Danish policy. These are agreements on green conversion, economics, welfare and our Danish handling of the pandemic. Thank you to all parties for a good and broad cooperation. Denmark was united when it really was. And, of course, special thanks are due to the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten. Two years ago we sat together here in the Danish Parliament and wrote our common vision for a fairer direction for Denmark. I can't believe it's only been two years since the two years have gone by. We promised each other that we would take the lead in the climate crisis. We set a target and you pushed us. It was an objective that many people at the time called unrealistic, but which has proved to be and thank you for being the ambition that drives the green transition forward throughout Denmark. It is about energy islands, the work on CO2 The list is long. There was a long discussion about the hockey staff, that is, that we had to make the difficult decisions only close to 2030. Here only a year after we adopted the Climate Act, we have already taken decisions which, together with the agricultural proposal, we must, of course, have negotiated in place and business decisions bring us almost half the way. We've reached half the way in just about a year. On top of that, we have now reached an agreement on an ambitious target as early as 2025. If there has ever been a hockey stick, I think we can now see that it has been broken. We also promised to strengthen our welfare societies. This is a major task, but we have got off to a good start: minimum standards for the children, a thousand new nurses, we have set aside money to boost psychiatry, municipal budgets with more room for welfare when more children and more elderly people arrive, we have ensured. Recently, we have also secured better rights and more security for the most vulnerable children. We said before the election together that the money must follow when more children and older people arrive, we have delivered it, and we have also provided billions of investments in some of the most important things, namely education. Do you want to take that list, too? We have abolished the re-priority contribution, we have made up the training ceiling, we have allocated money to more teachers in the primary school, we have invested in the upgrading and further training of unskilled people, in better upper secondary education and in more study places here during the crisis. In addition, we have started the cleaning up of the generational pollution, we have ensured better maternity conditions for the self-employed, and we wrote in the understanding paper that sex must always be based on consent, and where does it stand now? Now it's in the law. There's a lot we can be proud of. Denmark is strong, but we can do more than that, and today is perhaps a very good day to remember each other why Denmark has become one of the richest and most secure countries in the world. When we faced another serious and even greater crisis, namely the war, Denmark began. Business development took shape, industry grew, Danish companies came out on export markets, and women flowed into the labour market. All this was only possible because then there were politicians who made decisions about the future, who based their decision-making power on investment, welfare, education and people on the basis of a common realization already then that the more there is to draw, and the more there are skilled, the greater the social cake. In the 1990s, the new, modern offensive industrial policy, jobs are being created, and with the active labour market policy focusing on right and duty, thousands of people are going to work, and because they were then looking for training, some of those who lost their jobs because of development could enter a new one, and in the 1990s the basis for the green adventure was also laid. Now we can stand together to write the next big capital for our country. We can turn progress towards development, intentions towards action. We have now shown for two years that politics makes a difference. We must take responsibility for ourselves and challenge ourselves and each other, make the necessary and large and comprehensive investments in the future of Denmark, a high proportion of the population who work, education to the needs of society, an industry in transition and with a view to the world. I would like today to wish Parliament and everyone else in Denmark a well-deserved summer holiday when we get there. It's gonna be a little longer, and after the summer break, we're gonna be busy again. I hope that everyone will take part in the extensive reform work that we are now embarking on. We must take the decisions that will make Denmark as strong as possible. Where we are as a country and as a society in 10 years, we decide for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602093920	Thank you, Prime Minister. It is the case that a number of brief comments have been asked for, but that is not possible now. But don't worry, in a number of hours, the Prime Minister will come back and there will be a chance for brief comments. So we are now embarking on the negotiations, and first it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602094010	With a joint giant effort, Denmark has tackled corona, and with the pandemic under continuous control we can continuously take new steps that bring us closer to the everyday life we know and miss. More and more people are being vaccinated, and even though spring temperatures have taken advantage of the hockey stick model, as a witty soul wrote the other day, it lightens and warms for us as a society and as a citizen. Recently we lost Johannes Møllehave, who through his life here gave generously out of humor and enthusiasm for life. The high school song book contains, for example: Mill Garden Psalm: This morning's opportunity. First verse reads: "This morning's opportunity/We have air in our lungs/hands, eyes, ears, tongues/Live and happy cubs/This morning's opportunity. ▪ Also in that psalm there is lifelong happiness and love with Møllehave. And in a translation into everyday life in the people's rule, the lines can also be a reminder to us here of our constant opportunities to influence society. We ran through the worst corona crisis in our way, and we constantly have new opportunities to seize to improve and influence our society, set direction and benefit our country. There is not just one particular development. Politics and the electorate's verdict on election day must make a difference. There will be one before and after corona in Denmark. The fight against the pandemic has been tough, but the joint efforts of the Danes have borne fruit. We can now see that Denmark is one of the countries that comes best through corona, both in terms of health and in terms of economy. We are one of the few countries that really did not have excess mortality by 2020, and despite fear of the economic consequences of decommissioning, the Danish economy has done better than many of the countries with which we usually compare. Unemployment is again about the level before corona. As the Prime Minister said, next year the greatest growth is expected for 15 years. This is due to the Danes' joint efforts and unity during the pandemic. However, this is also due to strong political leadership and a cooperative government of the people. We seized the opportunity to keep the number of dead down and avoid overloading the health services, and we could do much politically to reduce the depth of the subsequent economic downturn. We took the opportunity. This is the case not later than the agreement on the reopening plan, which is being implemented on an ongoing basis. Almost the entire Folketing is behind it and takes responsibility for the controlled reopening. In other words, our model of solidarity in society also consisted of this stress test. We benefited from the widespread trust in our society. The ability and willingness to show the spirit of society and cooperation between parties, the partners in the labour market, between public and private and in the very concrete: between people in everyday life. Quickly, vaccines were ready, which each day provide more security and freedom by being protected from corona. So we pulled together on the bus, fought a hard fight. There was a lot of deprivation, but we succeeded. And we can grow from that kind of experience as human beings and as a society. Saturday is the day of the Constitution. The Constitution and the People's Rule are 172 years old, and the day is also the 2nd anniversary of the current majority in the Folketing. We are halfway through the parliamentary term, and a great deal has also happened alongside corona. At the same time, we have more to do in front of us • opportunities, creating and grasping. Up to the elections two years ago, the climate was one of the major issues. Social democracy went to the polls to turn Denmark into a green power and bring us forward strongly in climate policy. By a broad majority, we have since adopted the world's most ambitious climate legislation, which commits us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030. Recently, the government, together with its support parties, has agreed an ambitious milestone of 50-54 per cent. reduction in 2025. We want to reduce our emissions while maintaining competitiveness and jobs in Denmark. If we count on the agricultural issue, then the majority of the Folketing has now set half the way to the goal in a way that neither increases inequality nor makes us poorer. It has always been the Social Democracy's ambition to ensure a responsible green transition, which is an attractive example of compliance for the rest of the world, and halfway through the parliamentary term we can see that we are in full swing. Before the elections, the Social Democratic Party said that we would put welfare first. We already have. We have maintained strict foreign policy and the influx is quite low in these years. We have succeeded in making a compensatory reform that distributes resources more fairly; a task that the previous government had to give up. Some said that it was impossible to implement a new entitlement to early retirement for Arne and his colleagues. But what the Left called the biggest bluff in Danish history still had teams in the tickets for the benefit of thousands of worn-out employees in the years to come. The annual savings on education and culture have been dropped, and with these years' financial laws and municipal agreements we ensure that welfare is not undermined when we become more children and more older people we actually increase welfare. The money is in place to hire more nurses and more teachers. We have given priority to minimum standards and set aside money to boost care for the elderly. So it is a happy Social Democrat who stands on the platform today. And even though I am actually a modest man, I think we can clap each other on the shoulder and be proud of what we have together accomplished here in the Folketing. As the Prime Minister said, halfway there has also been an opportunity to look ahead. The last year has been quite unusual. But in many ways the gradual reopening marks a new start. There is more to do and new opportunities to seize to strengthen Denmark and our welfare societies. We are having a long debate today, and the summer holidays are approaching just as slowly. And if you want to pack a book into the beach bag, I can recommend Stine Pilgaard's Meter in the second, which last week won the Golden Laurbær. The book is a well written and funny depiction of the seventeenth new mother's meeting with West Jutland, the high school environment and the village community Velling with a part story about how difficult the main character has to take a driving licence, which is just really impractical in West Jutland. The motto of the city • We will walk again in Velling and it expresses the life nerve and energy that is in many small communities as the one depicted in the book. Unfortunately, many parts of Denmark became harder to make progress and to succeed with what you want. Several decades of centralisation have pulled Denmark wrong, also with political involvement. But we have the opportunity to set a new direction and influence development, benefit the whole country and achieve a better balance for Denmark. That is why last week the government presented an initiative to strengthen development in all parts of the country, both in the largest cities, in provincial towns and in rural areas. We need to have cleaner urban air and more sports facilities in the capital, to restore the balance of education so that more people will have access to education near where they have grown up. Businesses must be given easier access to locally qualified labour. Similarly, we will make it easier for families with healthy economies to borrow for housing where there is longer between houses and fewer zeros on square metres prices. By creating the framework for growth, development and good life throughout Denmark, we can offer the centralisation despite that and we must dare to do so. We may be a small country, but we can dream big. The Jante Law's own country has long proved that we are something. And the pandemic has created a new awareness of who we are and what we can do and what is really important for each of us as human beings and where our social model gives us great benefits when the crisis hits us. Now we need to spend the coming years making Denmark even stronger with improvements in common welfare, economic prosperity, investment in upgrading and education, comprehensive green transition, debureaucratisation, decentralisation and much more. We have a new morning's opportunity to seize. Thank you for your cooperation in different ways to all parties and for debates and agreements during the year. I also look forward to today's debate, and I shall immediately propose this adoption text on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that important steps have been taken in this Assembly to develop Denmark in a greener and fairer direction, including the adoption of an ambitious climate target for 2025. The parties welcome the broad cooperation that has influenced the management of the Corona crisis. Denmark is among the countries that have handled the pandemic best, both in terms of health and economics. Denmark must be brought out as best as possible on the other side of the crisis in an economically responsible, fair and sustainable way. This requires investment in welfare, education, jobs, green conversion and increased employment. Parliament must work to strengthen our model of solidarity in society, to reduce economic inequality and to combat child poverty. We also want to make decisions that make Denmark more coherent across the country and that the climate targets set are met. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602094947	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. I would just like to remind you of the framework, which, incidentally, has been sent by the Bureau. It is the case that the rapporteurs have 10 minutes and then 45 minutes for short remarks. They will be distributed in such a way that it is first the rapporteurs of the individual parties who will have the opportunity to ask questions and then they will be distributed to others according to the proportional method. That is why the first to a brief remark is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095018	Thank you for that, Mr President, and thank you for that. Jesper Petersen for a very good speech. Of course, I am particularly enthusiastic about the Mole Garden quote, which I think is fine, and also about the book recommendation on life in the Left, which has been taken note of. It's always good to get smarter. If you go in this direction, you will come from Christiansborg to a place called Kærshovedgård, and at Kærshovedgård we have some challenges. I think that is widely recognized here in the Folketing. Before the general election in 2019, the later prime minister, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, said that • and I quote: "The government then dropped the plans for an exit centre on an uninhabited island, which the VLAK government had put forward. And most recently, the government has said about the exit center at Kærshovedgård that it must stay where it is for the time being. It's no secret that we think it's a bad idea. So I just need to know, when's a new exit center coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095126	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095127	I've noticed very well that sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen was very interested in that debate and indeed also in Langeland. I'm not quite sure if sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also the next day went to Kærshovedgård and to the neighbors in the area around there and told that he had put a stick in the wheel for the proposal the government made to place the exit center somewhere else. That's gotta be part of it. I mean, if you want to run with the banners on Langeland, you're gonna have to go to Bording and other neighborhoods. It's fine. And that also means the message that must be given to them that the government's proposals could not be implemented because they themselves were blocked. There is a proposal, a well thought-out proposal on where there could be a new exit centre. This has not been sought, and I do not know whether Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen believes that the government is arbitrary or powerful or something, but we are not just driving over a majority of the Folketing. I mean, if the majority of Parliament says it shouldn't be there, then it will be listened to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095232	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095233	A little bit is being pulled on the smile tape down here, as you can hear. It is, after all, an insane thought that the government should be headstrong and powerful. Who's gonna be able to get it after this last year? Oh. I actually went to Kærshovedgård. Perhaps others should have done the same. But I did so because the government has not delivered a solution to the challenges of the people living in that area. This thing about thinking that you can sit in government and then, when there's a majority against you, just knock out your arms and say that that's not our problem: it doesn't work that way. You have to deliver solutions, especially when you have promised. This reminds me of something that the current Prime Minister said before the parliamentary elections, and that was and I quote: 'If there is no better idea, it is Lindholm that is being worked on. Now it turned out to be a bad idea with Langeland. Are you going to continue working with Lindholm?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095322	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095322-2	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is well aware of the answer to that question. At Lindholm there are also neighbors. You get it manufactured as if it's such a desert island far out in the Pacific Ocean. You can take such a small trip to Kalvehave or Stege and try to look out at the water and see how far away there is, and just remember the commitment that the Left itself met, that there should be ferries from there, because it must not be an incarceration. As a result, there are travels many times a day directly over there. So there's no good place to place it. But the government had done its homework, made a thorough cover-up in the Ministry of what was of reasonable opportunity, and has made a proposal that the Left has blocked, and then we stand where we stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095402	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095404	The government had done its homework! Well, I'm afraid it's getting more and more fun to listen to Mr. Knox. Jesper Petersen. On Saturday before it was announced that you had to move to Holmegaard at Langeland, you had bought a property worth 13.5 million. DKK, priced at between 5 and 6 million. kr., and which was last traded to about 7 million. kr. just before the financial crisis, as prices on the housing market are likely to have been reasonably high. It seems that the government has not done its homework to such an extent. Although the government comes up with a really, really miserable idea of an exit centre on Langeland, which will smash the development on Langeland, the government is still committed to its election promise to the citizens, to the Danes in Central Jutland to find a location for a new exit centre. Then don't be insulted, sir. Jesper Petersen. It is quite clear that when the government does not get its way, you sit back and play insulted. Then get in the work clothes and make sure to fulfill the election promise, give the Danes the new exit center you have promised.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095458-2	It is really the Minister's decision to place it, and the previous government, that is, the former left-wing government, chose to place an exit centre in Kærshovedgård. We didn't put it there. It is a former government that has placed it in Kærshovedgård. Then we now have another proposal on where it should lie. It was then your decision, and it was made and put into practice. We have proposals for it to be somewhere else and for it to be possible to relieve the citizens of Central Jutland. The government could just get through that, but a majority in the Folketing wanted it to be different. And yes, there have been various possibilities, and it has been found that this was the least of them. But it's the least bad one. After all, these people have to leave Denmark and not be here. But there has to be an exit center and there had been a place that could relieve the neighbors around Kærshovedgård. A majority in the Folketing chose to say to the government: You must not take that opportunity. And then we stand where we stand now. There can of course be further discussion, but we have made our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095604	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095605	Yes, you have made a really, really bad proposal, and because then there is a majority in the Danish Parliament expressing that it was a bad proposal, you lean back and play insulted. Well, that's what this is about. For the Danish Parliament does not get any insight into the various studies that have now been in the last two years of possible placements for an exit centre. The government has for the time being refused to give the Folketing. We have called for a consultation on the background to the purchase of Holmegaard, and we have been offered the consultation, I think it is during the month of June-July, perhaps even 1 July, if I remember correctly. Then we can have a consultation in perhaps an hour with the responsible minister, who can tell about the background for the purchase of Holmegaard. This is the way to deal with the Folketing, and then you stand up here and say that you have done the work, you have proposed Langeland, and when the majority does not want to, we cannot move forward, and then the citizens of Central Jutland will just have to put up with it, of these convicted criminal foreigners still there. - Sir... Jesper Petersen doesn't even hear that it doesn't sound super smart?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095658	In other words, we had the proposal and the decision that it should be placed on Langeland, ready, and then continue with the action that we will take to benefit the neighbours, where the exit centre then remains, because a majority of the Folketing wanted the opposite. And it is not a matter of being insulted, but it is simply to acknowledge that if a majority in the Folketing looks at it that way, we will live by it, and that is what they did when they joined that debate. Then I would warn against like opening the bag to six or seven others or how many it is now good places where you might think you could put them down. It would then be an exciting debate to have for all the areas where the arrow should now point. It would be a bad idea to do it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095742	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095745	What happened to the cash benefits, sir? Jesper Petersen? For years it has gone the way the hens scrape, i.e. back, and if this development continues, the daily allowance will already be around 2025. 44 per cent of an average wage for the workers. This sends waves of insecurity into tens of thousands of homes, not only with the unemployed, but also with the many wage-earners who fear having the pay slip replaced with a daily allowance card. So when do we hear that the Socialists have some ambition in this area? It's no use just sitting on your hands. What I would like to hear is: will the government take the lead in a recovery plan for job security?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095834	I remember this is not the first time that we, sir. Karsten Hønge and I have this exchange in a debate like this one, and I think it's all honor and respect worth holding onto a matter of priority. However, it is also known that the government and the Social Democratic Party are aware of the challenge and movement that is taking place in relation to the level of coverage. However, it is also known that we have chosen to give priority to some other things and that there has not yet been the adequate funding that we think there should be in order to implement a proposal such as that made by the SF. And this is a debate that we can continue, but that is not yet something where we have reached an agreement. But there is an awareness of that issue and also an invitation to make proposals, I hear, from the Minister for Employment. I would like to repeat that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095931	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602095932	In this question, the SF is fully in line with the proposals put forward by an entire trade union movement, which can clearly see the alarm signals, and in terms of funding we have also proposed adjusting the right to deduct interest. But the point is, these poor benefits don't just hit these families where the income gets halved. Security is the prerequisite for the dynamism and flexibility we have in the labour market, making it easy to start your own business, making it easy to expand and reduce the workforce. The foundation for that is security. So what we are doing here by not correcting it is playing with fire in order to maintain the labour market as we know it at all, that which creates the golden eggs for the welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100011	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100013	That is, of course, one of the reasons why there is reason to pay attention to this issue. But I would say that the most important thing at all is, of course, to pursue a policy that means that as many people are at work as possible. Then there must be a good safety net and we are aware of the problem of daily allowances. I don't think we're there yet, sir. Karsten Hønge describes that it may end, but of course it is necessary to be aware that there is the security that must be in our labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100046	Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100049	Thank you. I was pleased to hear, both from the rapporteur and from the Prime Minister, a lot of good words about what we need in relation to the challenges that Denmark faces. They look like the ones I use myself on the major economic challenges we are facing right now. The greatest is the lack of people. Actually, we did the same before corona. It is as if it has put a couples on it, so what I hear and heard was that we are now embarking on the reform work. That is why the question is actually quite simple and, I hope, open: when are we going to start? When's now? When will what you have promised us be fulfilled, but also what reality is calling for so much now: people must be delivered to our economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100149	I believe that this applies to everyone who heard the Prime Minister's speech: it is absolutely a priority for the government. In fact, the great new work, the great new effort to set in motion on the other side of the summer holiday, a reform work which, not only now and here, but also in the slightly longer term, 5-10 years ahead, must say where it is that we need to strengthen our society, including providing more employment and, of course, providing more skilled labour. The whole problem of lack of skilled workers is insanely important there. So having that ambition and we are well aware that an agreement has also been reached on the right to early retirement, which means that we have subsequently said that there will be proposals for it, even this year we stand by. But it's a job I hope we can find each other in and deliver. There will be more hands in the labour market, but we need even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100241	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100243	I very much agree with that, and I really do not think it is something to disagree with. Because it's a fact out there that it's needed. And that'll be there in 10 years, in 5 years, but also now. Because the economy is so on its way up. Nor do we disagree on qualification. I know who worked blue and yellow to get the funding of it included in the draft budget and it was not the Socialists. But I'm glad you guys ended up there, and hopefully we're not going to cut our education again. What I just want a picture is: what do we have to do to get that labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100320	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100323	The discussion here we have had with each other, since the government was formed, in fact, and if you go back a little, you will also be able to see some slightly different views on it. But there is at least an agreement on what we have baptized second-generation reforms, and on which there is now a Commission work going on. And there are a number of problems there about women with a non-Western background where employment is too low and about too many young people we do not get started, what the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech too, and about the fact that one can move from part-time work to full-time work and other elements that are already on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100401	Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. No, it's Søren Pape Poulsen, sorry for asking to speak, isn't it? My system's a little crazy up here. It'll be in a minute, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go, Mrs. Mai Villadsen. No, it is Mrs Victoria Velasquez who has the floor here, yes, please. It went well in this round it was a test. Here you go!
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100441	Thank you. The rapporteur just said that the safety net is important and also spoke of welfare in his speech. But the reality is that the government did not even want to call for negotiations on the daily allowance so that we could agree on funding. And core welfare is also about how we treat some of the most vulnerable in our society. It's about real people, it's real kids who, when parents get the note, get out of the handball club and change their whole behavior because they might say they can't come to birthday because they can't afford the gift. And it also draws traces right into adult life: It becomes harder to complete an education, and it has a lot of other major consequences. And that is why, in the Enhedslisten, we just have to ask the Social Democrats how it can be that it is not a bottom-up task to lift children out of poverty. Does the Social Democratic Party really believe that it is not a prestige project to secure 40,000 children? To ensure that they have a better life here and now and that they are lifted up by poverty?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100550	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100552	I would like to say here that I think Mrs Victoria Velasquez is wrong about how to understand the comments he has given up to the Service Commission delivering its support and in what context they have been said. We agree that we should have fewer children in that group in Denmark, i.e. where there are particularly low incomes, and where, just as Mrs Velasquez describes, it is of course hindering them in their lives now, but it can also do so far into adult life. And that's why we immediately took steps together after the government's education and that we have then also made it one of the points of a new system of benefits that it should contribute to our having fewer children in this group of families with particularly low incomes. We will. I just think it is important to make it clear that there are other considerations, including those of a Commission on Performance, and that the insanely important thing here is that we ensure that more people are employed and that children in those families experience that their parents are in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100659	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100701	We don't disagree that people have to work. But we were actually trying to give the Social Democratic Party an extra chance to address what the Minister for Employment had said. And there the Prime Minister said that we must now see what majority materialises. It's hard not to interpret it as not seeing it as a bottom-up task, that we have to solve this problem. In addition, the government has also said that the Performance Commission should work cost-neutrally. It has not even taken away the funds we have set aside for temporary family allowances, nor the deterioration that Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100736	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100738	I do not know if there was a really new question. But I just want to repeat the commitment to what no one should be in doubt about, and I don't think anyone is that it is important for us to combat child poverty. It is also in the text of the adoption that we are presenting together today. And we hope to be able to reach a broad political agreement on a new cash assistance system on the other side of the summer holiday. And if we can all meet I don't know, but I really wish that we can and that we can get a broad agreement so that we do not have to have new debates all the time about cash aid in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100812	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100815	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jesper Petersen for the speech. I was actually going to ask a little about reforms and the economy and welfare, because I think that is very interesting. But I simply have to follow up on that, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen and Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Because you have to decide what argument you have. Apart from the fact that it was an enormously cynical act to place it on Langeland, one still has a task as a government. I heard that the Minister was on TV and on the one hand said that I could just place it, but I do not want to go against a majority in the Folketing. And on the other hand, what do you want? Well, we're the ones who've been pointing that out, that's what we're gonna do. We did that before the last election, and we also took the boxes for it. We've gotten the shit we're gonna get for where it's gonna be when we decided to do it. Kærshovedgård is where I am chosen, so if I was just as cynical, I just said: leave it on Langeland. But it is simply too far-fetched, and I cannot get myself to do so, because it is not in order with the small island community. But that is why 130 deep criminals have still been removed at Kærshovedgård, to which you have a responsibility to find a location because you are government. And if you don't like being a government, let me know. Then we'll be until more people will help you get rid of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100928	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602100929	Well, the government likes that, I can tell from the Minister. But it's a little funny, too, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen begins with this argument that he might also have talked more about economics. Because it is one of the problems with the proposal that came from the previous government: that it was furiously expensive. It was the annual full-year accommodation on d'Angleterre, which I remember it, as it would cost per capita, that was to be on Lindholm, where people also live around, and where it is a fatamorgana to pretend that, like that, you have shut those people in some Alcatraz and never see them. That's not true. It was more expensive and had consequences for people as well. Then it has been at Kærshovedgård in the meantime, and we will help them more and better than what is happening now, and we must ensure that more of them are sent home and that they comply with the duties they have and are at the centres while they have to be there. I guess we're agreed on that. But it's Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen himself, who, together with his comrades, has prevented the government from bringing in a new exit centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101034	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101036	We're not stopping the government from doing anything. The government can do exactly what it wants in this area. And then it's gonna have to fight SF and others to get the money through on a bill of finance. Anyway, now I hear the argument, and I heard that too, when the answer was given before that when you can't make it lie there, we just leave it there; then we can't do any more about it. Does this also apply to other policy areas: if the government is playing out with a reform that is not a majority in favour, then you leave it alone? If you're playing with something about education that doesn't have a majority in favour, you're gonna leave it alone, aren't you? Or are you trying to move on? Are we trying to convince those people who have put you in government that we actually have a responsibility to solve? I have to say that the bourgeois parties have no responsibility for this. We've placed it. We have made a proposal. We've taken the boxes for it. The government has just been offended and withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101119	That is why we need an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101121	That's not true, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. It has been proposed, first in Kærshovedgård, where it is now. You did it yourself. It is your responsibility that this is where it started. Then the government's gonna come up with proposals for where it's gonna be. And it is actually the government's chance to say that this is the way it should be. But when a majority says, don't do that, we will listen. And that includes the responsibility that that decision cannot be implemented. You can't get around that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101154	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101155	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Denmark is not their home. They have turned their backs on us, they have left Denmark, they have joined the Islamic State. They have recognized the face of terror. That's what the Prime Minister said in this Chamber just three months ago. But on 18 May, in other words shortly after, the government made a turnaround which has rarely been seen to be greater. Mrs Mette Frederiksen now falls in the Danes' backs, fetches IS terrorists to Denmark and does exactly what the Danes had promised not to do, namely expose the Danes to the risk of terror in our own country. From our perspective, it is both a miserable and unworthy grip and a miserable and unworthy way of treating the safety of the Danes. Can the Socialist rapporteur understand that a great many Danes are outraged by the government's decision and that many Danes feel insecure about the fact that IS terrorists are now waiting for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101302	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101303	In other words, everyone who has followed that debate and discussion will know, just as Mrs Pernille Vermund refers, that it was not the desire or attitude of the Social Democrats that foreign warriors should be taken back. It was not, and we have done so with whom we have been able to remove citizenship. However, when we meet a security assessment that says that it would be a major problem for precisely the security that Mrs Pernille Vermund claims to defend, to let them stay because they are leaving those camps, possibly, and because they will have the right to come to Denmark, what you cannot stop them in, and that thus it is a greater security problem if you leave them alone than it is to take them back and then take the measures that need to be taken, then we as a responsible government cannot simply close our eyes to it, that is to say that it is what it says. Because then we would be faced with a legitimate argument, contrary to what Mrs Pernille Vermund has just said, that we did not take the safety of the Danes seriously. That's why you see the shift.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101406	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101408	I do not recognise the premise that we must take any risk whatsoever in relation to foreign fighters. That is what the Prime Minister said on March 3, 2021. This is nothing new in the assessment that these terrorists are, of course, at risk of becoming more dangerous and more radical, the longer they stay where they are. But quite frankly: what has happened is that the government has turned from the left and the Radical Left and that the government has said: we weigh taboos above the Danes' safety. How far will the government go? Thank you, Mrs Pernille Vermund.). You want to take more IS terrorists, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101443	Then we need an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101448	I am simply in doubt whether Mrs Pernille Vermund has read that report and also read what the Police Intelligence Service concludes, namely that it is more uncertain to take the current situation because the conditions in the camps have deteriorated and because there is an increased risk that they can get out of those camps and because they will still be entitled to return when they want to. Then it is safer to do as the government has now decided than to leave them there. That conclusion should have been read by Mrs Pernille Vermund and also taken stock of if she wants the Danes the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101524	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101526	Thank you. The rapporteur's government is often accused of engaging in show, in spin, in political symbols and in communication strategies rather than real content and substance. And I don't think we should have that kind of accusation sitting on the government. I would like the rapporteur's help to encourage any speculation about this sort of thing in the ground. One of the areas where people have been accused of showering and spinning and have no real content was in relation to the Prime Minister's trip to Israel. Some people said there's no reason to go to Israel if you want better vaccine production in Denmark, because then you just have to go to Germany. There they have vaccine production, and they do not have it in Israel. I think it is unacceptable for people to make accusations that it was just spin and communication strategy. So I really want to hear from the rapporteur what has actually been gained from that trip to Israel, and how can we see it in our daily work today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101616	At first sight there was a sparring with countries which, like Denmark, had some success in the field of vaccines, not least Israel, but also Austria, with which we spoke. There is, after all, an opportunity for exchange and cooperation with countries which, in the case of Israel, do not appear in the EU circle, just as we have had cooperation with New Zealand and talks with South Korea and others, which are therefore drawing lessons from the pandemic and in this case vaccination roll-out. These are agreements which may prove beneficial in the longer term. That is how it is sometimes, that is, that some clues are left out, and then we can benefit from it. In any case, I would say that during a pandemic in which we need as many vaccines as we can get and also need to prepare ourselves for new vaccinations because of mutations, it is not as stupid to have a Prime Minister trying through all the channels we can to work with countries with which we can get something out of working.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101715	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101717	So the answer is that we have got some sparring out of it and that perhaps something concrete can come out of it sometime in the future. In other words, nothing has come of it. Maybe it's just been a show, and maybe it's just been spin. Can the rapporteur himself not understand that one suspects that the trip was really only show and spin?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101736	In fact, I do not think that is fair to say. This is not the case if we see this in the context of the debate that took place in those days that it did not have a cost or led to a criticism that we went to Israel. I remember several interviews and debates and other things I had to do, because what would you do there, right? I think there must be a focus on the mission and on the case, and that is what the Prime Minister had.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101809	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101814	Thanks for the speech. The government praises itself and the support parties for the success of achieving our 70-percent target. I would say that the Prime Minister is about to celebrate on the platform. If that is true, why should the police carry striking students, green students, away from the main staircase of the Folketing? Why are the green students on hunger strike for the future of the climate? And why are virtually all the green organisations criticizing the government's climate initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101846	But I'll put it that way, sir. Torsten Gejl, that I have fought for the enormous commitment of many people and many young people to the climate issue. It is about climate, but it is also about biodiversity and nature, environmental policy and other things. Nor do I think that the government is hiding that we also think this is important. We are the country with the most ambitious climate legislation. When you go down the list of agreements made in this parliamentary term, you'll see a lot of things that bring us on to this field. So I guess all that commitment gets its end in that you want more and you want it faster. You also want other countries to do so. It is also important for us to ensure that our climate policy does not destroy it, that we should be a good example of compliance for countries that also want to keep their jobs and their competitiveness. In fact, I think that we are in the process of showing how to do it. We can pride ourselves on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101950	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602101951	I am pleased that all the demonstrations and all the activity of the green movements are animating the government to act as best one can. But does it not impress the rapporteur at all that the bubble we have in here has come so far, where the Socialists are almost celebrating climate results, and then the massive criticism that is out there in society, out in what we call the real reality? The span has become so large that you can't understand that it's the same world we live in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102022	We really must avoid this, that is to say the trends in that debate, but also in other areas, namely that we can end up so far apart that it is almost difficult to accept each other's views or arguments at all. I actually think that in those circles, sir. Torsten Gejl refers to, you see a lot of it that way. But there are also a lot of other people for whom it is important to have a car to drive to work in, perhaps the family needs two in order for it to be connected. And there we have to take steps in a way where things are moving forward all the time, and expectations have been made • but where you don't push it beyond the edge and remove people from it, because we have to take them with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102056	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102101	Thank you for the speeches. I would like to say, however, that it is just before I am so relieved that Denmark did not come to the final for the melodigrand prix, because then the government would probably have taken credit for it too. At least that's what it sounded like. Jesper Petersen We still have the EM in front of us). But peace be with it, that's what happens when you're in that situation. I know that; then you have to tell us about all the good things the government has done. Prime Minister after Prime Minister after Prime Minister after Prime Minister said the Prime Minister, who then stood up in the ranks of other prime ministers in relation to foreign women. We have the same situation for the disabled and for the mentally ill. Over the last few weeks here in the Danish Parliament, we have dealt with countless resolutions and questions and a citizens' proposal from #enmillion votes on the rights of these vulnerable groups, and there is Google, after all, a vicious partner to have with him, because I have read countless speeches from previous prime ministers and, incidentally, also from myself as political rapporteur to safeguard those rights for those people. When do they get them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102205	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102207	I think it's a good thing that Mr. Jens Rohde brings disabled people and mentally ill people that could be other vulnerable groups, but not least the two have had a lot of discussion over the last few weeks in this debate, and I think it is true that these are some of the areas in which we as a society also have to say that things are not working well enough here. There are various ways in which preparatory work is being carried out, for example. a 10-year plan in the field of psychiatry to benefit the area that we have had as the slightly neglected part of health care for too many years with all the problems it has created. This also applies to an evaluation in the field of disabled people, and I have to say that the stories that have been seen for a period now, with incredible creativity too, in terms of how to reduce the costs of people with disabilities locally, have not been pretty to look at. So it's fine that Mr. Jens Rohde takes it up and hopefully together we can also reach some agreements on that point when we are back on the other side of the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102320	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102323	After all, nobody has anything to let each other hear there, because there are many governments responsible for the fact that those rights have never been implemented. After all, however, everything is stranded on the economy and part of it on the structure, and there is a need for economics, especially for municipalities and regions that have to carry out the task in everyday life. Will the government help to make the municipalities and regions more free economically and politically so that they have the opportunity to carry out the task which I can, after adoption here in the Folketing, hear we all agree on the need to be promised?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102402	When it comes to the economy, the first 600 million have been set aside. kr. of the Finance Act to what is about mentally ill. As far as disabled people are concerned, and as far as the economy of the municipalities and regions is concerned, agreements are currently being negotiated there. But I just think it is worth emphasising that, with the municipal agreements and the funding of welfare made under this government, a huge step has been taken, including with the compensatory reform which is there and which therefore reduces the pressure on the municipal economy and which has actually come from the side that Mr. Jens Rohde has unfortunately joined after joining the Christian Democrats. There is more to be gained from it in the municipalities if the current government continues its course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102448	The next brief remark is to Mrs Sophie Løhde, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102450	Thank you. I simply have to follow up on this on the exit centre, because the rapporteur is today using an argument that the reason why the government cynically placed 130 deeply criminal foreigners on Langeland was that it was furious to place on a desert island. Well, honestly, I thought the Danes' security was more important to this government. Lindholm cost 200 million a year in annual operating costs. We are currently spending 2 billion a month testing because the government has introduced coronapas everywhere 2 billion a month. And then you think 200 million a year is furiously expensive. How can the rapporteur defend that it is the money that makes the government cynically believe that Langeland is the best location and that it has even done its homework, and then that they say to the Mid-Joys: Now we are letting you down permanently?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102600	One is no more cynical than the other when we recognise together that there are no good solutions to that problem. There is no such thing; there is no place where it is good to place it. And I think the Left should be a little more real in that debate in that way, that one must also recognise that Lindholm has the same consequence. Then it's just citizens of Kalvehave and Stege and Vordingborg and other places that have them close, i.e. these people that we all want to go out. Then everything will be relative. Yes, it would be more expensive for our society if we did not have a test strategy that is a key in corona, and it is about twice as expensive to have the proposal that the Left has made, as the government has made. Then it's just spin to call it a desert island and all that kind of stuff. It's silly. There are neighbors there just like other places, who are actually now fairly tired of the Left resurrecting the Lindholmi idea and saying that it creates insecurity in them. Then we're back in business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102704	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102705	After the money comes out of the treasury, it is cynical to have to hear the rapporteur say that 200 million per year in operating costs is furiously high, while at the same time spending 2 billion per month testing because of the government's coronapass. I just want to say that before we come back to the opening debate, will there be a proposal from the government, which has actually done its homework and thus honours its promise to the Mid-Judsmen to place the 130 deep criminals elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102740	I have to say that I think it is such a rather dull and also a little populist style, Mrs Sophie Løhde runs here in relation to calling it a desert island, which is, after all, neighbors exactly like other places, and pretending that the test strategy is something for which we alone are responsible, and that this is a hopeless bad idea, and that it is the same as a discussion about an exit centre. It is not, and Mrs Sophie Løhde knows that. There is no good solution to this, but we have come up with our proposal and if it is not possible because the Left is blocking it, then we must take the measures now needed to help the neighbours in Central Jutland, give them greater security and security, but it is there because we have been blocked in making the solution we wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102823	The next brief remark is to Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102825	Thank you. It is new to me in this debate that the Left has a right of veto over government policy. We would like to take advantage of this in other areas. At least we have not yet reached that point. However, Mrs Sophie Løhde is asking a very trivial question: is there going to be a proposal for a new location of an exit centre or is there not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102847	The Left does not have a right of veto, but we are listening to a majority in the Folketing. If I may repeat earlier, what was expected? Were we supposed to be such a powerful, headstrong government that just goes all over the place? We don't want that sitting on us. That is why, of course, we listen when a majority in the Danish Parliament says: The decision that you could make yourself, we would like to be involved in, and we would like to stop you from making it. We don't want to move it from Kærshovedgård as we could. We think that the centre should stay there until, hopefully, some people come with something else that can get a majority. The short answer to the question is: we have a proposal. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. We should not put out all sorts of other solutions and create insecurity in five-six other places Denmark about whether it is now those who will be sitting with bucks. Our proposal is that it should be on Langeland. We've been blocked in that. That's why it's at Kærshovedgård now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102948	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602102950	Thank you for that, I actually think, very clear answer. It is rare that I can congratulate Mr. Jesper Petersen. Jesper Petersen This happens actually, but rarely). Yes, but my praise is also so deeply ironic, I can say. It's just for sir. Jesper Petersen shouldn't be too happy. This is an honest answer to the Mid Jutlanders that the exit center remains in Central Jutland at Kærshovedgård. It's not moving. The government doesn't plan on doing that. I think that is a huge failure on the part of the government, and therefore also by Mr Beazley. Jesper Petersen's side. The only thing one can truly thank for is an honest answer that the government will not live up to the promise they made to the Danes in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103027	What's it like with the finger pointing back at you? Left has located the exit center at Kærshovedgård in Midtjylland. Then there's a proposal from the government to move it. It has been chosen to block this. Then you can say that you had other ideas, but when you go into wanting it to be something that a majority has to interfere with, you have to be able to form a majority in favour of a different solution. There isn't, and the Left knows it well. Therefore, one must stand by one's responsibility to have blocked a move from Kærshovedgård. That's where it is now. Now we are doing what we can to ensure greater security and security in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103107	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103110	Thank you. Well, I have to say frankly that for the moment, sir. Jesper Petersen involuntarily comical on Parliament's platform. It is totally absurd to mess around in Kærshovedgård and Langeland. There was no majority because one of the government's supporting parties, the Socialist People's Party, would not be with the end. That's how it was. The government, in its own power, had made a decision without consulting anyone at all, that is what is dangerous when you have power for too long, for too long. And that's what happened. I would like to deal with the costs: 13.5 million. kr. Thrown away. And to the fact that Lindholm was going to be more expensive, I would say that it was offered to compensate if someone had to expropriate because they could not have their houses set aside, and you would make insurance and you would make more police around Langeland if it were to lie there. It's an expensive pleasure, isn't it? Let me just finish the first comment by saying: it is the government's own fault. It is the government that has made sure that we have got foreigners to Denmark, including a lot of criminal foreigners that you cannot find out about sending home. Unfortunately, it is one hundred percent that a large majority in Parliament's own fault that we have ended up where we are. But we are, and now there is no solution. It's pathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103227	Perhaps it is involuntarily comical here that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard behaves as if the Danish People's Party has not been a completely central and decisive party for the formation of the majority in Denmark for even a number of years. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard succeeded. I wonder how many of the people who are at the exit centres now have actually come to Denmark, while Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's government was in power. Well, there's gotta be some kind of connection. We cannot simply behave as if we have never been part of a majority in Denmark and have been involved in the policy of foreigners. It is also involuntaryly comical not to want to relate to what it costs not just to buy property, but to drive them every year. There it is, as I am told, twice as expensive to take Lindholm as taking the proposal that the government made. So before accusing others of being comical, perhaps you should also be a little aware of your own responsibilities and how prices are actually made up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103326	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103327	As long as we agree that the Danish People's Party has led the way with austerity when it comes to foreign policy. Unfortunately, I cannot attribute that to the Social Democratic Party; on the contrary, not even after the government has been given power. You started relaxing. I think we will come back to that a great deal in this debate. But let me just say that our position is that they have to be deported and they have to go home, and after all this controversy I would very much recommend to the government once again to try to make an individual assessment of each and every one of them for sending them home. The 130, with which you have major problems, should not be in Denmark; they should be home with the axe terrorist in front. I think it's so grotesque that you almost gave this up. I want them out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103412	We are in complete agreement on this, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. We don't want them here. They have to leave, and that's why they're at an exit center. But if you can just do that, why didn't Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard fix it in the last parliamentary term or the previous one? It's because you can't just do it like that. And then I think we must have some honesty about what has actually happened during this reign. After all, we are doing everything we can to make it easier to expel. There are many aspects of tightening up: return, citizenship, etc. This has happened under this government and we are happy to have helped to bring it that way. So that's the correct characterization.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103457	Now there is room for a final remark to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103503	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I should like to return to the issue of disability policy, because it is a debate that has been filled with a great deal recently. In about half of the cases complained of, there are errors. In a survey from Danish Handicap organisations 39 per cent say that they must buy help themselves. 44 per cent considers that economic considerations outweigh professional considerations. A lot of single stories fill up, especially among #enmillion votes that deliver a lot of sad stories about how meeting with the system is incredibly hard for people with disabilities. These are stories about young people institutionalized in their own homes when they turn 18. These are stories of people being observed over many days in their own homes, into the bathroom, into the bedroom. Veterans who can't get a new leg prosthesis. That is why I would like to hear from the government and the rapporteur whether the government is satisfied with the way in which people with disabilities are meeting with the system and that it is a lifelong struggle that is beginning. And does the government believe that you can change some of the financial incentives • perhaps add more money to the area to ensure that it is not worth the municipalities to give less help or no help?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103621	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103623	I fully agree with the rapporteur that we cannot be satisfied with the present state of affairs in the field of disability. I fully agree that many of the stories that have come out and they find out organized, as Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk mentions, but come in my inbox too is not fun reading. And that must not be the case for the people who are in that situation. So it is one of the very important things, I think, in the social field to have an effective address on the other side of the summer holiday when we meet again. There are various evaluations of the responsibilities, etc., and the economy also plays a role, as it does, in relation to how hard the economy of the municipalities has been under pressure, and the attempt to find savings has been made and has also gone too far. So I think it is a good thing that this is a matter that has really been highlighted, and we must deliver that together on the other side of the summer holiday.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103722	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103724	Well, I'm really happy to hear that, and I'm also very looking forward to working with the government and the support parties when we get the results of this evaluation. But I also know that there are a lot of people with disabilities who sit out there listening and who are passionately asking us to act. And we really must also assure them that we recognise the problems that exist and also have an understanding that we need to change the system. I asked whether it would be possible to change some of the incentives, because, as it is today, the municipalities can really save money by providing less help. Perhaps we could also consider moving parts to the regions, and I would like to try to hear the rapporteur's reflections on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103806	I think we have to say that this is a discussion that needs to be taken with the minister responsible on the other side of the summer holiday. I cannot give a more specific commitment on how to organise such an agreement. But now we are very much in agreement with the intention and the necessary problematization of the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103825	So I would like to thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. Jesper Petersen You're welcome). There were plenty of brief comments to the rapporteur, but no more time. I would ask the rapporteur to prepare the platform for the next speaker, and the next speaker is the chairman of the Left. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602103900	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin my speech by sending a greeting to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and to the entire Conservative People's Party. Former Prime Minister, President of the Conservative People's Party Poul Schlüter has passed away. He was one in Danish politics. He made significant impressions on Danish society. His economic results go as far as today, and we should all be very grateful for that. Many of us remember Poul Schlüter with pleasure and with great respect. Then I shall look to today's debate. It marks the end of, we say, one of the strangest parliamentary years in man's memory, a year that has been marked from beginning to end by corona. It's a year that's been testing us. I think we're a lot of people looking forward to putting this parliamentary year behind us. We should not forget what we have been through, because there is much we have learned or should have learned along the way. First of all, we have learned that it is easy to have ideals when they are not challenged. We can easily toast to democracy, we can toast to the constitution, we can toast to the broad parliamentary cooperation, we just have to remember it when it really matters, as when corona hit at the beginning of last year and the government chose to close both the courts and return large parts of Denmark's Radio and TV 2. Shortly thereafter, Denmark was given an epidemic law, which was used to put democracy out of play by parking the Folketing on the sidelines. And then, in November, the Prime Minister chose to close down the entire mink business, take people's life's work away from them at a press conference without legal advice, without a clear recommendation from the authorities at a price of 19 billion. kr. It is therefore more than billions more than what we heard the Prime Minister say has been spent on wage compensation for all companies in Denmark. The Corona crisis, yes, unfortunately in many ways it became a low point for our people's rule. Fortunately, there are good things too, because we have learned that the Danes take responsibility, we take responsibility for each other, that with great individual responsibility we thought of each other, and in this way the Corona crisis also becomes a highlight for our community in Denmark. That's how we do it. And some of us may have known it all along, but for others it has come as a bit of a surprise: this about a strong community, yes, it is the sum of our individual actions. We give the community life by participating and by actively contributing to it. And it is because of the individual Dane's willingness to take personal responsibility that our health services have been able to keep up with and the infection did not come out of control, so we owe a thank you to everyone and to each other. We also owe a great deal of thanks to all the talented people in our health services who have made an extraordinary effort. A third thing we have learned, yes, it is the importance of a healthy economy, because Danish industry has managed relatively well through the crisis overall, because our entrepreneurs have been adaptable and because the government has inherited a treasury which has, of course, made it possible to help where necessary, a treasury whose padding Socialists have consistently opposed. It may be that the Prime Minister thinks it is old-fashioned or unmodern to make money before spending it, but we have also learned that once the crisis hits and you need the money, it is very good that someone has thought about it. A healthy economy, yes, it offers opportunities, and it can make politics a reality, and I hope, in this way, that we will all go along with us when we address the major challenges facing society on the other side of the crisis, because I very much agree with the Prime Minister in listing some of the major challenges facing society: climate challenges, the development of our welfare society, the ambition to ensure good opportunities in all parts of the country. Fortunately, unemployment has fallen again, and now we see an increasing shortage of labour in several sectors. It is therefore at risk of challenging growth in Denmark. We have to take this seriously. We have to do something about that. As far as we are concerned, then, we are proposing that we reduce the limit on how much money you have to make before you are allowed to come here to work and to contribute to Denmark. At the same time, we must take advantage of the recovery that we are looking into. We must take advantage of it to bring the too large groups of immigrants, who are now outside the labour market, into the working community. It's a huge opportunity. In the Left, earlier this year, we presented a proposal to end the way integration was supposed to work. We say quite clearly that you should not be able to come to Denmark and receive social benefits even and freely, you have to find a job. It's because we believe that people can do something we believe people want something, and we meet people with expectations. We look man forward to the system. That is also why we want to introduce a duty to work so that we ensure that many more people either take a job or start training. Then we will abolish the extra 2,000 kroner. tax-free every month to particularly unemployed immigrants introduced by the government. Here the other day we had this discussion a little before the government decided to place 130 deported criminal aliens close up and down a community in progress on Langeland, but the locals shouted so loud that the government could not even overhear them. Now the plans have been dropped, and the government is standing pretty clearly it is completely out of plan to keep its promise to solve the problems at Kærshovedård. Those problems need to be solved. You simply cannot be familiar with the people who live in Central Jutland. The Corona has taught us how important it is to listen when everything is roaring. It is important to listen to the breast cancer patient in the capital or Region Sjælland, who has had to wait. It is important to listen to young people whose best years have been stolen. We need to listen to the newly baked mother, who is being sent into a taxi with contractions because there is no room for her in the hospital's maternity ward. We must listen to the entrepreneur, who has invested everything to achieve his dream and is now considering moving out of Denmark because it is too difficult to obtain both capital and skilled labour. We must listen to the company owner, who has been closed under Corona and who has not yet received the compensation for the closure that we have promised. We need to listen to dairy stones in Central Jutland, which make some of the world's best foods better, greener than anywhere else on the globe, and which are now being rude and see the risk of their jobs being sent abroad. We must also listen to the elderly, to the foster home Else Marie Larsen, who received treatment at the nursing home Kongsgården in Aarhus, which was both unworthy and careless. We need to listen to her grandson, Charlotte Ahm, who had to go to the media to make us listen. The ability to think about others, the ability not to believe, our own answers are always the best, we have in fact always been good at in Denmark. I think it's an ability that's been neglected a little under corona. I think we should all get better at that when we meet in the next session. So we have learned a lot over the past year, and that is why there is no excuse for not getting smarter as well. A reopened Denmark, an economy on the way forward, is the opportunity to reach the Denmark that we dream of, but that requires that we also learn lessons. This requires that we believe in personal responsibility, that we give room and that we give freedom to do so. This requires that we ensure a strong economy that gives hope for the future. This requires that we take nothing for granted, that we take nothing for granted, and it requires that we listen to others other than ourselves, because we can do what we want and we get what we choose. So when someone says we have to go back to the way things were before, they're wrong. We're not going back, we're going forward, and we're going together. Then, on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Citizens' Party, the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Inger Løbberg (UFG) and Mr. Orla Østerby (UFG) put forward the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark, thanks to a responsible Danish population, a strong economy and a adaptable health care and business sector, is approaching the end of a serious health and since economic crisis. The Danish Parliament notes that it is now crucial that we pursue a policy that creates growth, prosperity and Danish jobs as a prerequisite for continuing Denmark's green transition and financing our common welfare in the future, among other things. In terms of ensuring dignified relationships for our elderly. The Danish Parliament expresses concern that the government restricts citizens' free choice of welfare services and conducts a policy that by raising taxes and taxes for Danish companies and citizens costs Danish jobs. The Danish Parliament notes that it is crucial that the Danish tax money is wisely prioritised and not used to give unemployed immigrants higher transfer income, which the government has given a number of priorities. The Folketing stresses the importance of pursuing a strict and consistent policy on foreigners. • V 146).
ParlaMint-DK_20210602104926	Thank you to the President of the Left. The text of the adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then I am surprised to tell the President of the Left that there are a large number of brief comments. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen great). The first one's for sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602104941	Thanks for the speech. I think that one of the very remarkable things that has happened in the year that has gone by in relation to the things that do not have to do with corona is what we saw about the police settlement, where it was, of course, the Government's wish and we ended up having a broad majority to get the police out there closer to the citizens, to set up a large number of near police stations and to increase security. It simply ended up not supporting, and it really amazes me. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen himself said in the Restart, the programme on P1, that it is a pity that the Left was not part of the police settlement. But does the Left really have anyone else to thank for that than itself? And has it regretted not taking co-responsibility for that agreement? That is my question today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105043	Do we have anyone else to thank for that? Yes, we have, and thank you for that. That's right. I am damned at it, because when we make these big settlements, whatever it is about the police or about defence, that is, the big things that we basically agree quite broadly on, that is, where our challenges go on the smaller things I think it is important that we are all involved. And I think that each one should stretch so that everyone can join in. That is why it annoys me, and I think it was apologies for the phrase "fucking sorry," as I said on the radio, that it was more important for the government that the Left was not involved than it was to secure a funding that did not make it more expensive to be a Dane. Compared to this, you say that there are some things you want to do, so you just make sure that taxes and taxes increase by 0.5 billion. Mr President, I should like to make a few brief comments on this matter. I just think it was a pity that no other funding could be found, as we proposed, and I think it was a pity that it was more important to keep the Left out of it than to do something that was financially responsible. So, yeah, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105157	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105158	What it was all about was that it was more important for the Left to hold onto some sort of quadruple tax freeze than it was to take co-responsibility for the police, in other words for the police to get closer to the citizens. The Danish People's Party is involved, and Conservatives are involved. The Left itself has contributed to a number of, I think, 13 increases in the tax in some way. It's easy to be a part of it. But I understand that perhaps we would consider redefining that tax freeze, so that the Left will not be so locked in the next parliamentary term too. Does Left plan to do that? Will we meet a more mobile and negotiated Left in the new Assembly than this case is an example of?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105240	I'm super fond of Mr. Simpson. Jesper Petersen's interpretation of the Left's tax freeze. It's not exactly right. But when we have a tax stop, it's all about there having to be some in here and it's the Left who say: Dear friends, there are many things we want; the wish list is long, and that applies to all of us. And if we just every time there's something more, something else we want to say, that we're just turning on the tax screw, this cake just gets smaller and smaller, because then we don't have jobs, and then we don't have companies. And it is therefore important for us not only to look at how we spend money, but also how we make money as a society, and one of the prerequisites there is that it pays to work and that it pays to do business, and tax increases are just not related to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105336	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105341	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister said earlier: of course it is a political decision whether people who are traitors in my view, and that is when they join the Islamic State, whether in words or in deeds, should be in Denmark or not, and so they should not. Quote out. And I saw, when this task force had come up with its so-called new assessment and the government chose to say that they should still say that then the rapporteur of the Left was out to say that it was possible to discuss it with the children, but not under any circumstances the parents. I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, whether it is still the line, and whether it is maintained by the Left that these parents who have joined the Islamic State should not be actively brought to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105432	Thank you for the question. I mean, this is a case that's filled a lot, and it fills up a lot, and it's so heartbreaking. And we all think so, no matter what we think about who should go home and not go home, etc. There is no one in here who does not think that it is absolutely cruel what these children are being subjected to and what failure their parents have caused them. I think it's awful. I think that when someone in this way fails their parental responsibility and neglects their children in this way, we as a society have a responsibility to take action to help those children. And those kids, I think we should help. I do not think that we should actively help parents to come to Denmark. I think you should have followed other leads. And then I know that the government has an explanation that it certainly is because there is another security assessment. There is no such thing as the situation in Syria. There is another security assessment in relation to the existence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in office and also the Minister for Justice. And that is the way politics is sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105536	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105537	Thank you for your answer. The Danish People's Party has always fought against the fact that the people who have turned their backs on Denmark in this way have to return to Denmark or the Government has then chosen a new line on the basis of the assessment of the task force that the Left helped to reduce. And then I understand that the Left has a point of view on the children, and respect for it is, after all, a clearly stated point of view which the rapporteur of the Left has also done in the past. But one still stands away from the fact that the parents have turned their backs on Denmark to an extent so that they do not have to be actively helped back to Denmark by the Danish state. And I just think it is good that we have made that clear here today during today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105622	I mean, I think some of the things you rob is the possibility of a local prosecution, of an international tribunal. And I fully agree, as the government quite rightly says, that such a thing has long prospects. Yes, it has. This is extremely difficult. It's gonna take a really long time. We have looked for Rwanda, we have looked for the former Yugoslavia. On the other hand, we have also seen the importance of this in relation to a process of healing that it is actually the case that justice is done and that people are held accountable for any actions they may have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105656	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105659	But sneak up on me if you, sir... if you don't... if you don't... if you don't... if you don't... if you don't... if you don't... if you don't... if you don't... if you don't... if you don't.. if you don't... if you don't... if you don't... if you don't.. if you don't.. if you don't... if you don't... if you don't.. if you don't.. if you don't... if you don't... Lars Løkke Rasmussen had sat in the Prime Minister's Office, not also had chosen to bring Danish mothers home when PET, Police Intelligence, so clearly says they should. But peace be with it, that's not actually what I wanted to ask questions about. I was just a little surprised by the President of the Left's approach to this issue. I think you usually have more respect for police intelligence. However, I would like to ask about the climate and agriculture. We're in some negotiations right now. They're quite difficult. I hope they can land. We have together achieved a very ambitious target of 70-percent CO2 I am pleased about that, and I think it is positive that the Left is involved in it. There are some things I have to imagine: in addition to transport, because we have done that together, and it was also difficult to do that, I would say we have done it on industry too, and we have done it on households, and we have made a joint CO2 It was a little difficult to get the government along, but we are getting there. Now we need agriculture, and here I sense that it is a little harder to get the Left up in gear, so I would like to ask Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, if it is not true that we need to get quite high in agriculture to make sure that we do not just pass the burden on to, for example. the industry or the citizens of Denmark. Should not agriculture also take part in the responsibility, and if they do not, do we not risk that agriculture will be the largest emitter in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105825	I agree with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that it is good that we have this common agenda. Then we have some common tools to move forward, but all the tools are a whip to the government, and I very much appreciate that we use that together. Agriculture also has to deliver on this, and when I listen to agriculture, and I do, I hear both the associations in agriculture and the companies in agriculture, which are owned by farmers, i.e. Arla, Danish Crown etc., large Danish companies, which I am proud to see when I come abroad, say: we have to deliver on this agenda. What is important to me is not just that we do not push, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says, the burden on industry; it is also that we do not push the burden and emissions to other countries, because that is what I have previously warned against here. This is what I call climate nationalism, where people pretend that if we stop producing food in Denmark, people will probably stop eating. This is not being done, and that is why I think we should make an effort to find a balance that ensures that we can continue to produce the world's supremely best food in our country with the jobs that come with it and at the same time deliver on climate targets. We are in complete agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105938	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602105940	It is a bottom-up task, and it is not just a bottom-up task for Denmark. This is a bottom-up task for all countries that have signed up to the Paris Agreement, and that means that the whole of the European Union must also deliver on this. That is why I would like to say to this debate about leakage, that people are just moving agriculture to Poland or Germany, that Poland and Germany must therefore also contribute by reducing their CO2 which is why we have to be honest with Danish agriculture and say that they must contribute. I don't want it through the ceiling. This must be fair and sensible, and we can help from the state, among other things. I believe that the Left and the SF can agree with this. But agriculture must contribute, because if we do not reach a minimum of 8 million. t, it is that we pass the burden on. Then the Left will be willing to say a minimum of 8 million. t from agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110034	I can assure you that the Left, also in this debate, is very, very constructive. We believe that agriculture must deliver. What we're saying is that we, among other things, are... The challenge is that agriculture, nitrogen, the economy and agricultural subsidies have been mixed together. This poses a number of challenges, because on the nitrogen side we are a long way from each other. So on the climate side, we're not that far apart. Now both Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and I have such a car that you can put in the outlet when you get home. It helps the green transition in transport, but I would just like to warn strongly against doing the same with a cow. It will be furious, and that is not the way to drive the green transition in agriculture, and we believe that this should be taken into account along the way. So there are some animals involved in animal production, and now that was said a little joke, but we do not have the tools here and now to make the same smooth transition as in industry, and we must and must take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110129	The next brief remark is to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110134	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech, which I think, like the Prime Minister's speech, drew up a picture that there really is a need for more ideas about the Danish economy and that we will get started immediately. Therefore, I just have an open and simple question for Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen: Could we sit down now and over the middle formulate some suggestions on how to get those people for the Danish economy if it was up to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110209	We can do that. I am, of course, with all due respect to my honourable colleagues, President of the most constructive party in this House. We're always solution-oriented. That is why it is not us who have pointed to a government and been a parliamentary basis for a government that has reduced labour supply and made Denmark systematically poorer over the last two years. So if you want something other than that, you're gonna have to look elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110236	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110238	Well, I'm also looking at the Chairman of the Left intensely, while I'm asking this question: what kind of bids does the Left have on how to get that workforce?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110254	Well, I have that is why I allowed myself to be a little snide just now, because these attitudes do not quite harmonize with what is done by actions. We want to increase labour supply in Denmark. We also want it to be easier to get foreign labour to Denmark. One of the areas on which we will specifically look is to make demands on people who come to our country, to demand participation in the labour market. So there's a potential here that's gigantic. One thing is the economy, but first and foremost this is about giving people who come here an opportunity to get to know us and an opportunity to have the greatest dignity in their own lives, that is to say, to take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110345	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110348	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen for the speech. After hearing the first part of the debate here, it may almost sound as if the biggest ideological dividing line, at least for the bourgeois Denmark, here in Denmark, is whether an exit centre for exiles should be on Langeland, or whether it should be on Lindholm. But there are also other important political debates, which is why I would like to ask a few questions about Danish agriculture. Because there is no doubt that Danish agriculture is in crisis. A farm closes every day, so every day, and part of the development is that the debt spiral is rising. We can see that Danish agriculture is plagued by three major challenges, both an economic challenge, but also challenges in relation to nitrogen emissions and in relation to CO2 emissions.There we can also see a development where foreign capital funds have an increasingly important role to play in Danish agriculture. There is a larger proportion of Danish agricultural land than ever before owned by foreign investors, and very few own Danish agriculture. We're gonna go all the way back to the tape to see something like that. Now it's just banks and capital funds that fix the farmers instead of the landowners. I would therefore like to hear from the Left whether the Left agrees that the status quo now in Danish agriculture is not a viable solution. Well, we have to think differently, for example. in relation to setting up a state land user fund, which can partly help solve the three challenges, and can ensure the generational change that is so necessary in Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110518	Thank you for that question and, in particular, for withdrawing it all from the lifting of the tape. Then, as a Leftman, this is how you really start to quiver. There are some real challenges, of course, but in my optics there are some wrong solutions here. The challenges are obvious. It is about debt, it is about climate change, and it is about nitrogen. That is why we must and must take these things very seriously when we enter these agricultural negotiations. After all, the agricultural negotiations hosted by the government at the moment are all about climate, nitrogen and agricultural subsidies. As I said to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr before, I think we can get closer to each other on the climate side, but we are a long way from each other in the other two areas. And if we do not want a development that will increasingly be like the one that the questioner picturesquely describes here, then we will have to take this into account Danish agriculture. Then we will have to recognise that the form of production has those limitations. We need to recognise that the generational shifts will not be easier when you triple the generational tax. Well, there are some things we can actually do to reverse this development and which are not about a state takeover of the production apparatus, as I hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110634	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110635	Now I am not speaking in favour of a state takeover of the production plant. This is about creating a state land user fund that can take over the agriculture that will otherwise turn the key and where the alternative is a foreign capital fund. I should just like to hear the rapporteur from the Left: when that is the alternative we see, is it not, after all, preferable to have a state farm fund where we can ensure a generational change, where new farmers can enter, rather than being foreign capital funds that do so solely for profit and that do not take into account generational change, climate or nitrogen emissions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110708	What is important to us in relation to Danish agriculture is that, in the words of the government, there is development and not dismantling. So far so good. That's where we agree with the government. I simply do not accept the premise of the question, namely that these are the two choices we face. I think we have a third choice, which is to ensure proper framework conditions for a profession that is incredibly important for Denmark and has been so for thousands of years. This is something that matters to us. It is part of our identity, it is part of our economy, and it is part of our responsibility to the world to keep producing the world's best food. We must and must take the lead here, and we do so by ensuring proper conditions for agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110753	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110755	Thank you. I would actually like to follow up on Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's request. I have also read the Berlingske report with pleasure and I understand that the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. But why not take Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen to the floor? There is no doubt that, in relation to foreign policy, we disagree very much with the Radical Left, but I am quite sure that if we take Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen at her word and actually put together civil parties, including those from the left, who want a bourgeois economic policy, then I think we could do something good for Denmark. And I think, in fact, that the Danes out there would see that there is an alternative to the fox-red majority we are seeing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110856	When I'm smiling, it's for real joy and also kind of wondering. Who would have expected us today, on 2 June 2021, to hear the President of the New Citizens' Party say to a Leftman: cooperate with the Radicals! I am simply glad that the Minutes are being taken here; I think that is great. I am so prepared to take Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen to the floor on this, because I think it is important. I think this is an important agenda. I agree with the challenges raised by the Prime Minister in his speech before, but I also agree with the other side of the House, our side, that that is where the solutions need to be found, because I think that is where we find the way to make the cake bigger, and that is what this is all about. We are discussing too much, too much, how to distribute the cake, and far too little, how to make it bigger. So let us all finally take each other at his word. I'm gonna finish up here, but then we can have lunch together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602110959	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111000	Then we'll have to stick to each other at the word and not anywhere else. It was just the thigh I was thinking about, but you probably can't say that in the hall. When the rapporteur wonders, it is, of course, because of the policy of foreigners, and I hope there is, of course, a firm stand on the part of the Left, not to allow the Radical Left or others to come sneaking in with crazy proposals that we should relax it. Is the Left prepared not only to stand firm but actually to do what the rapporteur said this summer in his really very good speech at the summer meeting, namely to ensure that foreigners are expelled without warning if they commit serious crimes, that we have to have a new asylum system and that we have to ensure that foreigners in Denmark support themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111051	I can reassure the President of the New Citizens' Party that what I said last year still seems to me to be gone and that I can see some dividing lines between the Radical Left and the Left when it comes to immigration policy. In other words, when we presented our proposals for a new integration policy this spring, it is of course a matter of thinking that we should make demands on people; that we think it is an expression of confidence in others that they are required. We think it is reasonable to have an expectation that people who come to our country actually both desires and abilities to contribute. And we're going to get through that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111131	The next party leader, who has asked for brief comments to the President of the Left, is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111137	Thank you. I have decided to be inspired by the SF, and it is not every day that I do, but I will be inspired by the SF's approach to the government and then be equally critical of Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. So my question is: is there nothing about that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen was sent out once? And if it's true, sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has received a medal for this work? Is that something, sir? Jakob Ellemann-Jensen can put a few words on? Laughter in the Chamber
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111205	Then it's the Chairman of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111207	I think it is time that that question was asked in here, so thank you very much for that. Yes, it is. That is why I am wearing the small needle up here, and several of our honourable colleagues are doing so. And I think it is good to be inspired by the critical approach of the Socialist People's Party to the current government. I hope that there will be many more detailed questions. I have a sea of anecdotes I would like to share with the Chamber. I'm the hero of all of them. Laughter in the Chamber
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111239	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111241	Well, I think we should take that at the lunch I hope to be invited to join Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen and other good people. It's a little in the ball street I'd like to continue. I also think it was an exciting interview that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen gave to Berlingske, with this reform focus and I understand that it has the Left too. I really want to hear: if we do not manage to find each other because of the parliamentary situation, Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111309	Well, I think we should go into this with a very, very open mind, which is why I am glad that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is reporting today in the Berlingske Tidende, because it opens up an opportunity. I referred to my wonder about it before and then the lack of consistency. But it does open up an opportunity to talk about some of those things. The Prime Minister said in his speech that there are some things that are difficult but that we must do anyway. And we know that in the Left, because we have been doing this for many, many years. There we have done the things that are difficult, and it has been with screams and slops from the whole left, including Social Democracy; but that is what has done that we had something to resist when we came to Corona and were hit by it. So we're always ready to do what's necessary, especially when it's difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111356	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111359	Thank you very much. I'd like to go back to farming. Now it is the case that our agricultural land is being sold just as quietly, partly to individuals abroad, partly to capital funds and foreign companies. We don't know how much it is. We know that an area the size of Bornholm has for the time being been sold as farmland. Now the rapporteur says that agriculture is part of our identity. What does the rapporteur think about the fields we look beyond are more owned by German interests or American interests? What is the rapporteur thinking about us selling our agricultural land?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111438	This is such a curious thought, because I actually share that impression when we stand and look beyond the fields of rape that are currently on incredibly many selfies, and look at the formbrog waving in the background, whether it is really Danish soil we are looking at or not. When I sit and get caught up in it, I also think a little: I wonder how much land Danish farmers actually own outside Denmark's borders. I do not think that the calculation goes up to the disadvantage of Danish agriculture. I therefore believe that our holdings elsewhere are somewhat larger than the foreign holdings of agriculture are in this country. That's how it is to be in a modern world. That is also why I replied, as I did, to Mr. Peder Hvelplund's question before. I mean, I'm the Chairman of the Left, and we're basically based on Danish Agriculture. We are very aware of that, and I am very aware of that. I think that one of the things we owe to Danish Agriculture is that it is part of our identity as a country that provides proper framework conditions and that farmers can do what they do because they are the ones in the world who do the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111549	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111550	But the fact that farmers have been bought up in other countries entirely justifies selling our agricultural land? Is there any limit to how much we can sell? What would the rapporteur think if we were to sell, for example? 50% of the agricultural land we have in Denmark and it comes on foreign hands? What will that mean for the local agricultural culture, and for our ability to control CO2 So, the rapporteur has any limit whatsoever on how much of the Danish agriculture the rapporteur will accept is being sold, for example. to foreign participations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111631	As I mentioned earlier, what is important to me is, in fact, that we resolve the challenges that we have in agriculture and that we have together. It is about the debt in agriculture; it is about climate action; it is about the environment. We have to help each other with these things, we have to get to the finish line. If we want to ensure that Danish Agriculture stays in Danish hands, as Mr. Torsten Gejl says that we also need to ensure that they have proper framework conditions, that they have proper competition conditions. I just don't hear any solutions from Mr. Torsten Gejl's side. I recognize the problem in a way. I'm just trying to give it a little perspective by saying that it's both ways. But there is a problem. The solution to it is to ensure that it is worthwhile to be a farmer in Denmark. We are working for this because we believe that we actually have an obligation to the rest of the world to show how to produce the world's best food.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111726	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111729	Thank you. I can then say to Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, that before he dances too closely with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, it might be that we should have a lunch together, because I have a few middle bills I would like to give him. It is not on a personal level, but on a fiscal level, you have to be a little careful and one of them is about agriculture. Well, I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has the international outlook and, in this context, is also defending agriculture, because what is currently on the table is that the government is in the process of renationalising agricultural policy in the European Union. You take 3.8 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been presented to us by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. I would very much like to hear the Left give a guarantee that they will not be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111845	I can issue it quickly. Well, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Jens Rohde's past, both in the Left and in the European Parliament, is shining through. What is one of the major challenges when we are currently discussing agriculture with the government, and we have been pointing this out for a long time, is precisely the linking of climate, nitrogen and agricultural subsidies. For this modulation, like Mr. Jens Rohde describes is going to mean something. It is going to matter that you move the money and say: you get it here in direct support today; you no longer get it, but you can get it under certain conditions. It will mean something to the economy of farms, and what it will mean is a wasteland. If the government wants to preserve Danish agriculture and if it believes that there should be development rather than dismantling, more money will be needed. This has been done in the other areas we have discussed on the climate agenda. This must and must also be the subject of the agricultural section. Feeding the cow with its own tail is useless.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111951	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602111953	I am pleased about that, because there is another aspect to it, namely that the Helle Thorning-Schmidt government, when the last seven-year budget was drawn up, introduced a flexibility between pillar 1 and pillar 2, which went both ways. This means that one country can take direct support from the farmer for other purposes, while other countries can then make flexibility the other way. When the French are not completely up to speed and stand and pour manure and all sorts of other products beyond Strasbourg and Brussels, it is because they have an opportunity to compensate for the overall reduction in agricultural aid. It is, after all, a renationalisation of agricultural policy. I hope that, together with the Left, we can be the ones who stand firm that we do not need a renationalisation of the European agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112048	Thank you. I also hope that we can find some common ground. This is insanely complicated. This is the case when we talk about agricultural aid, climate and nitrogen, and I would say that the latter in particular is furiously complicated. So this is important because it means something for real people's real jobs all around Denmark. I visited Thise Mejeri last week, and I can only say that the jobs they have there are heavily dependent on Danish agriculture, and that type of job does not suddenly pop out of the ground if we insist on pushing agricultural production to other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112129	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112133	Thank you. As rapporteur for the budget, I had planned to have an economic debate, but with Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen's introduction that the Corona should be a low point for the people's regime, I simply have to take that debate. In other words, we in the Folketing have jointly secured aid packages which have meant that unemployment has been kept low, we have ensured, with compensation to the business community, that the number of bankruptcies has been lower than for years; we have ensured, together with the business community, a conversion of production, so that not alcohol has been produced, but hand alcohol and protective equipment, we have ensured with more than 15 tripartite agreements that those who had been sent home could take training on increased daily allowances. We have had some of Europe's least intrusive restrictions on the freedom of the Danes, while, as one of the only countries, we have experienced a mortality rate that has not been greater than usual. We have done well in terms of economics, in terms of health, with limited restrictions. Is this really a low point for the people's rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112245	Yeah. For all the things that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen says here is right, and there are things that we have been able to work together on. But that does not change, and the responsibility lies with all of us, and it is also with me that the epidemic law that we adopted with a short sunset clause is too short, and that is where I would very much like to assume my share of responsibility and the experience that has been gained not only gave the government a responsibility, but a power that one was not able to manage properly, and I am really saddened about that. Because I think there are far too many examples of a government which has acted in an exclusive manner and which has blown the Danish Parliament, and now we can hear that when it comes to an exit centre at Langeland, there is an incredible amount of listening to the Folketing, and it is a great thing that one has begun to do, but this has been neglected in the last year. So I think there are some highlights in terms of accountability, especially among the people, but I also think we should be honest and say that, democratically speaking, it has not been ours, with an English expression, finest hour. It hasn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112357	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112358	89 agreements have been concluded in the Corona area and 86 agreements have been concluded in broad terms. So the figures speak their perfectly clear language in relation to the fact that the people's regime has been ready to join forces with the Danes, with the business community to deal with this crisis. It is beyond my comprehension that one can call it a low point in the people's regime, and I simply do not understand it. There's another thing I don't understand, which I'm going to give to Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen the opportunity to nuance or withdraw. In his speech, the rapporteur mentioned the restrictions which, of course, also affected the courts and the media, and tried to give the impression that they were probably happy that as a government they wanted to cut the media or cut the courts. What was meant to be seriously? For that was, in any case, quite clearly the message that would be sent by pointing out that restrictions also affect courts and media.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112457	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112458	So, if that is what I meant, I would have said it, and that is not what I said, and the record is simply being kept, and we can go back and see that. Listen, I really think there are some things we should learn from, and that is a common criticism of all of us, including myself, according to the remark before, where someone says: How many fingers is it that points towards you when you point to someone? I think we should learn from this and the reality is that courts and television stations were de facto discharged, and we may think that in the situation was necessary and was right and so on. But that should give rise to fears and regimes that we do not want to be compared with, among all of us. Surely this should be a cause for thought. Well, that's right. I hear the PM is shaking his head, but it's true.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112603	It is still a good hearing, that is to say, to hear some shaking of the head. Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112606	Thank you. No, it's not true that the government sent the courts home. But we can check that out afterwards. After all, Mr Ellemann-Jensen presented some quite striking points of view at the Left's summer group meeting last year, among others. on a safety-enhancing ban on residence. Because we can see problems with boys, mainly immigrant boys, who sit on an area, which means that ordinary people cannot move there. We shall then make a proposal. We are commended by the Left, who says that we have stolen the policies of the Left. We are dealing with it first in the Parliamentary Chamber, and there is a lot of support for it. The only criticism from the Left is that it is not hard enough. And now we saw yesterday that the Left is voting against this proposal. So what is it actually doing that the Left has changed course on that issue? That's one. The second is that the amendment tabled by the Left means that it is the status quo. That's it, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen meant last summer? Was it that now we need a security-building residence ban, and what the Left is going to put forward is that we should be able to do exactly the same as the police can do today? That's it? Or what does the President of the Left really think?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112721	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112722	Thank you for the question. I mean exactly what Mr. Jeppe Kofod starts by explaining. Because that is a real problem, and I think we are in complete agreement on that. We have these places where there are some young people who behave in a way that is at best inappropriate and that is insecure. We want young people to be able to be removed from there. We want them to be punished if they are there anyway. As Mr. Jeppe Bruus says: Well, today you already have the opportunity to give a restraining order. Yeah, and if you did, they weren't there. But they are. They're still gone. And that is why last summer I said what I still mean, what we in the Left still think, namely that we want to hit those who create this insecurity. But it also means that we do not want to hit everyone else. If sir... Jeppe Bruus and I are sitting at a train station waiting for the train and having such a good conversation that we wait until the next train arrives, so we shouldn't be thrown into jail because we are good and decent people both. We should not be thrown into prison because there are some others who have a behavior that creates insecurity in that place. So we want to hit the bad people and we do not want to hit the good people. That is the essence of the Left's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112843	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112845	But where is the Left's proposal? We have put forward a proposal for a safety-building residence ban which does not affect ordinary people, but which is precisely about where you cannot make an individual solution because there is a group of people who bring insecurity to that area and where ordinary people do not travel because it is insecure to be there. We'll come up with a bid for that. We are commended by the Left, we have stolen the policies of the Left. Then the Left turns around and doesn't mean it. Then it is fair to ask where the Left's proposal is, then, which backs the Left President. What is it that the Left has put forward in this debate that is new? We must believe that when you present it at a summer group meeting in the Left, it is because there is some concrete suggestion about what you do about it or was it just talk?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602112928	In other words, it is true that the government has put forward a proposal. And when we were against that proposal, it was because it hit wide. That's what I was trying to give you an example of before. I think it was two good and decent people who appeared in that example. It should be clear to everyone that it is not proper, good, upright, law-abiding people who must be affected by a residence ban. But when you do it in general and say that those who create insecurity and everyone else can't be in this area, it hits a lot of people. I do not think that is proportional, and that is why we are saying that we will hit those who behave insecurely, and we will hit them hard, and that is not going to be done hard enough today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113018	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113025	Thank you. Now that the Chairman of the Left has had lunch with Sofie Carsten Nielsen, I would like to invite you to Rasmus' green evening school to talk about the EU's future agricultural policy, because I think there is a lot that the Left has not understood in what is being negotiated right now. And I'll be happy to help. In the past, the President of the Left spoke of the need to split it up in relation to how we talk about agriculture. There is the matter of nitrogen, in other words how we live up to the Water Framework Directive, and then there is climate, and then there is agricultural aid, which was quite different. So I just need to know, was this a misunderstanding? Does it mean that it should be a comprehensive plan for agriculture? How do we get it converted and finally live up to the Water Framework Directive and the Climate Act and, of course, use agricultural subsidies actively in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113114	I said it's three complicated things, and that's it. Each of these subjects is incredibly complicated, and I think everyone who has dealt with it can nod in the affirmative. The climate is complicated because there are not immediately the same instruments that we have in other areas. The nitrogen part is complicated because in some of the plans we have seen, for example. shall have a catch crop of 130%. Of his land it's a little too much. The whole part of agricultural aid is complicated because, as it was expressed before, the cow is fed its own tail. So you take the support of people and give it back under certain conditions. And when you take three so complicated things and say that you want them on the table at once, it's gonna be hard. But that's why we've been assigned to it. It's because it's hard and because we want to. And we want to solve these challenges. I simply note that there are three separate complexities which do not, overall, reduce complexity. And one of the prerequisites for achieving the objective of the part relating to climate is for more money to come. Because you can't just take the money from people and then give it back under certain conditions without undermining competitiveness.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113230	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113231	But now it is also fortunate that some of the tools that can be used have a positive impact on the climate and the whole nitrogen problem, in other words, in relation to land use. How do we use the land? I would then like to expand on what the President of the Left has to say about the agricultural subsidies paid by European taxpayers, that is to say, all of us. It is not something you take from someone to give it back, but you have to use it as a tool to make the transition that we need to make. And that is what is in the new agricultural policy being negotiated. Does the Left entirely disagree with the agricultural policy currently under discussion? negotiating in the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113310	I hear things are getting mixed up a little here, and I am sorry if I contribute to that. In relation to what we are discussing at European level: yes, it is the future agricultural policy. What we are discussing here at home under Danish auspices is climate, it is nitrogen, and that is agricultural aid. And that is why I say that you take the support that some people should have received, and then you say: Well, in relation to a part of it, we condition that you meet some separate requirements. And that is where we say: if you do so, if you remove the economic basis of those who are doing this business, and at the same time say that they must, moreover, meet some requirements in order to get this aid, some requirements that cost them money, then you undermine competitiveness. So what is also important in this debate is that we also keep an eye on what is being done in other countries. And there it isn't, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist rightly says that the country is still at European level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113403	Then there is room for one last brief comment, and it goes to Mr Beazley. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113408	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Normally we know the Left as a party that, like us, cares about the safety of the Danes. We can therefore be a little puzzled by the position of the Left when it comes to the repatriation of Danish children and women from Syrian camps. For in PET's safety assessment last year it was stated that Danish children are not currently a safety risk, but that the longer they stay in the camps, the more radical they can become. Through revelations in the Ekstra Bladet, we have been able to find out that the Islamic State is speculating about smuggling children out of the camps in order to train the children for terrorists in areas where there are Danish children. Now there is a risk assessment from PET, which says that Danish mothers will still travel to Denmark in the long term. That is why I would just like to ask: why is the Left putting so much on its hind legs in relation to the very clear safety assessments that are when it comes to the repatriation of Danish children and mothers from camps in Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113513	I think that we have exactly the same view that these children are for me, and indeed for security reasons, but I also believe that we share the primary reason why these children are going home, and it is that it is so cruel to expose these children. So, as a society, we cannot witness that. These are Danish children for whom we, as a society, have a responsibility. Why don't I want to help bring the mothers home? One of the arguments used for children and mothers to go home together is that they should not be separated. I certainly hope that there are authorities who do that as soon as they set foot on Danish soil, because they have proved completely unfit to be parents. But another argument was supposed to be this safety issue, and I just have to say that there is no difference in the assessment that was made in the past and the assessment that is now being made with regard to the mothers of these children. There is no doubt that they represent a safety risk and they differ depending on where they are. But I also think that we should take what is of other options. If there is an opportunity to prosecute a local court in an international tribunal, I think it should be pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113625	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113627	A tribunal says everyone doesn't come right away. That is why one wonders why the Left, one might say, is standing on its hind legs in relation to the safety assessments that lie and, in fact, is turning its back on the safety assessments. Therefore, I just want to know whether the Left does not agree that it is in Danish interest that Danish children should be radicalised as little as possible, that Danish children should be subjected to smuggling to training for terrorism to the minimum extent possible, and that it is also in Danish interest that mothers should return home before they return home at some point and will have been further radicalised by then.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113708	I would say that we are in any case very, very much in agreement with the first part. I fully agree with Mr. Kristian Hegaard says that we must, of course, do everything we can to prevent these children from being radicalised, yes, for our safety, but also for the sake of these children. I think it is so cruel what these children are being subjected to that is very, very difficult to put into words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113735	Thank you, Mr President. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. There are several brief comments, but time is running out. Thank you for getting the platform ready for the next one, and that is the chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. It will be so that just about about 1 p.m. 12.00 would be called for lunch. So the brief remarks to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will thus be divided into two out of respect for lunch; but it may be able to excite the debate again. Welcome to sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602113809	Thank you to the President and thank the Prime Minister for the statement here earlier. These people don't have a home in Denmark anymore. Foreign warriors cannot come home to Denmark. Denmark is not their home. They've turned their backs on us. They have left Denmark. They have joined the Islamic State. And they have recognized the face of terror. We have said this before, and I would like to repeat it: the people who have been in Denmark at some point and who have gone out to fight for the Islamic State or another terrorist organisation have, in our eyes and in my view, made a choice for life. They have betrayed Danish society and the rest of us; they have contributed to endangering the lives of Danish soldiers. They have fought a dark fight against democracy and freedom and equality in other words: against what Denmark stands for and what Denmark is based on. That is why they are obviously not welcome in Denmark. Of course, it is a political decision whether people who are traitors in my view, and that is when you join the Islamic State, whether it is in words or in deeds, should be in Denmark or not, and so they should not. Foreign fighters are • and I repeat myself, but it is an important message • unwanted in Denmark, whether they are mothers or fathers, and the government will not take any risk. We will not actively bring parents, foreign fighters, to Denmark. I could go on for a long time. These aren't old quotes. It's not quotes that were picked up 10 years ago. These are quotes, not just from this parliamentary year, but from this year. This is among other things. quotes from March, three months ago, here in Parliament. These are quotations by the Prime Minister of the country who is sitting right here and who has made his speech today to the Danes as part of the final debate without, in fact, addressing this point at all. In March we had an urgent question in which, like the person who called the urgent question, I was asked by journalists why I called for an urgent question on a subject in which I agreed with the Prime Minister. It is useless, after all, to waste time; it is to waste the Danes' time with an urgent request for something that you agree on. And my answer was that I was afraid that the Prime Minister will let himself be pressed by his parliamentary basis to mean something else and yet take these foreign fighters to Denmark. I was a little mocked and mocked there, because, no, no, the PM stood firm. She meant this. It was from her innermost, from the heart, she meant this until 14 days ago. 14 days ago, the government decided that three of the women and 14 children and possibly five more children, i.e. 19 children, are going to Denmark. And they must be actively taken to Denmark by the government, by the Danish state. Of course, it is a political decision whether people who, in my view, are traitors, and that is when you join the Islamic State, whether it is in words or in action, should be in Denmark or not. And they should not, said the Prime Minister at the beginning of March this year. I would like us to put the Prime Minister on the floor in connection with this final debate in order to decide what kind of turnaround has taken place here; so not just those of us who have asked for the Prime Minister's word on it, but the whole population can get a clear answer. We do not think in the Danish People's Party that people who have joined the Islamic State and joined the desire for a caliphate in the Middle East and who, if we consider that they had succeeded, would fight our own country from down there, have something to do in Denmark. And under no circumstances do we think, from a moral point of view too, that the Danish state should do anything active to bring these people to Denmark. They will pose a danger in Denmark, they will pose a danger and a risk to the Danes, and we should certainly not be actively exposed to that risk. See, it was as if the government thought 14 days ago that when it still had a bad case, it could just try to sneak through another slave's case at the same time it's a well-known trick. That is why suddenly a desire came from the government to create a new exit center for deported criminal foreigners on Langeland. On Saturday morning, the property had been bought quickly for 13.5 million. kr., approximately twice what it was priced at. But it had to go fast. But the government would probably have billed without the people of Langeland, for the vicious people of Langeland stood up in protest and said: under no circumstances should we have these drug criminals, raped, rapists, and the man who tried to murder Kurt Westergaard as neighbours. They rose in protest, and thank God they were able to reject the government's request for a new exit center on Langeland. But I have to say that the government was ready with a grant for the neighbors. They should have fences so they could lock themselves up. They had to have alarms, so they were sure if any of these foreign criminals broke into their homes that the alarm sounded, so the criminals knew. They were to have guards in the shops; yes, even compensation for reduced house prices in the area was then the government willing to come along. I just have to say that we in the Danish People's Party therefore believe that it is foreign criminals who should be locked up and they are not law-abiding Danes. It is then to turn things upside down to say to the neighbors that they can get subsidies for fences, alarm systems, guards, compensation for falling house prices while the foreign convicted criminals walk freely around. As I have said earlier today, the government must stop playing insulted at the fact that a majority in the Folketing thought it was a bad idea with Langeland and come back to work and work to provide the Danes with proper and better solutions in relation to an exit centre. It is not just insulted to say that they must stay in Central Jutland where they have been promised not to be. Finally, I would just like to mention about the area of foreigners there is a great deal, and I could spend all my time on it, that the 27,000-30,000 Syrians who are still away in Denmark after they came to Denmark 5-6 years ago, must be here temporarily. They have to go back to Syria when there's a chance. Even now, the usual outcry is due to the fact that a few hundred are losing their residence permit. So, from parts of the press, from the left, from the goodness industry, you try to find out the most TV-suited and say, "There you can see." These people aren't going back to Syria, they should be allowed to stay in Denmark. It is in fact to undermine the logic that they are here in Denmark for help temporarily and of course have to return when the opportunity is for it. Imagine that just on the basis of hundreds of people who are in the process of assessing whether to withdraw the temporary residence permit, there is an outcry. We have even been told by the Minister that more than half of them are then expected to obtain a residence permit on a different basis, so that they do not even enter an exit position. Perhaps the howling choir should stop, and perhaps the government should be encouraged to stand firm in this area, so that we do not also see that the government will eventually surrender here and leave the Syrians who are temporarily resident in Denmark here, even if they should lose their temporary residence permit and of course go back and help with the reconstruction of their country as soon as possible. In fact, the last year has been a great deal about the management of corona, and I would just like to say that in many ways we have done well in Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party are happy about that. This is largely due to the fact that we are a country with a great sense of community, cohesion and cohesion. When we Danes are told to do something, we do it. We think about our family, our relatives, our friends and acquaintances, but we also think broader than what we are actually showing a social mind. So when the Danes are told to wear muzzles in Dagli'Brugsen, they have it. Even if the merchants go in there at 8:00 a.m. 19.30 to buy 1 litre of milk and cannot see another person, they run around with muzzles, for they have been told to do so. All the more important, then, is that the government administers the power of a coronatide with rather greater care than what we have seen over the past year. In other words, when Northern Jutland stays in their municipalities, when they are told that they must stay within their own municipality, and they do so without there having to be guards at the municipal border, then it also requires some of the government in relation to the way it manages the power in a little respect for the Danes who actually handle it so well. I think there have been problems. We know that the government and the authorities were acting on an illegal basis in relation to the mink case. It was impossible to get information from the government about the slaughter of the entire mink industry. We know that the government's decision to make a reopening agreement only with its support parties back in January-February got support for the restrictions to dive. And we know, if we go all the way back to last spring, that we did not get the whole truth to know about the background to the decommissioning of Denmark. Now many people are thinking that when the health authorities have to reconsider that with the vaccines, it is because the health authorities as a natural part of their tasks have to do so on the basis of a health assessment, or it is because the government has decided that the one with which the vaccines are included in the programme still has to be changed. The Danes are in doubt because of the way the government has managed its power. And I would like to appeal to the government to stick to what I think has been better over the past few months when it comes to involving Parliament in the reopening that we are now doing. Because there's light at the end of the tunnel. A lot of people are and are being vaccinated. The reopening of Denmark is basically fine. Next week we meet to negotiate phasing out the coronapas and muzzles. We come to the negotiations with the desire to have even more clear dates for when the freedom of the Danes is finally back and that we have an end date for the restrictions. And in our view, the final end date is, after all, when everyone over 16 years of age has been offered a vaccination. There are plenty of other issues: Denmark in balance; the conditions of the elderly; the health service, where we need a better health system for the Danes, a more close health system that I would have liked to have mentioned in my rapporteur's speech; but 10 minutes is not enough to say everything you have at heart. So I hope that I will have the opportunity to address this in the debate that followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602114842	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Perhaps there is at least a whole series of brief comments. The first is from the Social Democratic Party from Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602114850	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech. Let me just take sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on the floor and ask for some of the things that were not available in the speech. After all, in the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, we have a common ambition for a Denmark that is better connected, a Denmark in better balance. One of the ways in which we have collaborated on this in the past year has been in relation to a police agreement which is intended to create more security throughout the country and which, among other things, is: set up 20 local police stations. After all, it was an agreement that the Left chose to stand outside a party that once also cared that we had a Denmark that was linked and where there was balance, I think one can say with great regret. I'd just like to hear sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, how he views it, that the Left stood outside such an important and large settlement as a police settlement that was supposed to create security outside the big cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602114941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602114942	It was a big surprise and I regret that the Left is not in the deal. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen himself was given the question here earlier. After all, we all know that it fell on some financial discussion that we in the Danish People's Party do not think it should have fallen on. So we are in the agreement and we welcome the fact that, after all, we also got some good things through, we think, in the debate that was going on. If, at some point, we can get even wider support for the work there, that is, of course, fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115015	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115016	It may prove to be a challenge if the Left holds onto a tax freeze so hard that you cannot even make a police settlement because there are some prices on driving licences, I think it was that should rise a little. That's why I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, how he sees the way to be so square around his tax stop that one cannot help securing closeness and security for the police throughout the country because one holds on so hard that not even the price of a driving licence must rise. Is that a wise way to make politics when you are now the largest party in the bourgeois bloc?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115048	I think that questions to the Left should be put to the Left, and then I shall reply on behalf of the Danish People's Party, after all. We had a different assessment. I think the Left must take the decision they made, and I am glad that it has been said that, in terms of many of the things we negotiated in relation to the content of the police settlement, there is also support from the Left. I think we should all be pleased about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115117	The next brief remark is from Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115118	Thank you. I am also concerned here with the economy. Could the Danish People's Party and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl imagine that we found the people who are missing for the labour market? This is also true in some of the areas that are very much in touch with the Danish People's Party: we are going to lack a great many social and health workers, nurses and others, among others. to the elderly, in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115152	Well, I think we're getting a big job ahead of us in particular getting educated people to the right places and also getting young people attracted to the right education. And I think we're limping with that. We have discussed vocational training in the past, and indeed the posts in the public sector that we really need, in terms of how we can ensure a better attraction for them. I think that is a very, very important agenda. Then it is also for us that people later in life have the opportunity to be retrained, i.e. to be retrained. We still think that there are a great many seniors who turn to us and say that they do not feel in demand at all. So the one who talks about our lack of labour, they would really like to find themselves in relation to them personally, so that they were actually offered jobs. And it may then be in connection with reschooling for something else. And we need to be better at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115239	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115240	We fully agree with this in the Radical Left in relation to the need to move around throughout our lives. That is why we have proposed setting up your training account, so you actually had that opportunity. When you are older or have children, you may not go straight down to an SU; then you actually need something to support, which we may have shared in saving up for. So maybe it could be something we could do together. But 29,000 social and health assistants will be missing in 2029. I don't think we're gonna do that by just moving around a little bit. Will the Danish People's Party also actually help to provide more hands and heads for the Danish labour market on that scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115326	We fully recognise that in various areas there will be a shortage of labour. And especially when we talk about e.g. The proportion of our population, which is over 80 years of age and which needs care and care, is an area where you cannot just leave the elderly to a machine and say that it will be enough. After all, it is a question of human care and closeness, etc. In relation to the elderly, who need help, and there we will need labour. There is no doubt about that at all, and we must have a hard eye for it. But I am also thinking that it is also about making the area attractive to look into. And it is also a discussion we have had over the last few years: how do we ensure that we have an elderly area where it is actually appreciated and respected that you are there and that you are respected for your work and so on.? Such agendas are important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115410	The next brief remark is from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115413	Two people with the same job and the same salary get something very different from the job, depending on whether the partner at home is retired. So in these situations in some families who often have their problems, yes, there you can actually see that the pension is being reduced so much that real taxation actually ends at 73 per cent. This is something we have discussed many times. But besides being put down in income because of the partner's work, it also means something about this constant uncertainty and fear in these families about when the bill is coming. Sometimes we have seen examples of families who in December get a bill of DKK 20,000 to be paid back because you expected you to take this extra work or to get a bonus on your job. Could the Danish People's Party be part of now, conclusively, once and for all, to reach out to these families the absolutely necessary helping hand, so that we do away with the partner-income dependency or mutual dependents, and what else is going to happen to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115522	There is no doubt that this question really lies very well in the continuation of the discussion with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen in relation to this work. For it is clear that we have some set-off rules in our system which discourage people's desire to take a job or to make an extra effort, simply because the set-off against their spouse may become too rigid, as Mr. Karsten Hønge here is talking about. And, of course, we have worked on this in the past with regard to finance laws and the like and raised the limit on when different people are being set off against each other. But we don't think that work is done. That is why we have also welcomed it when the SF has said that this was a very, very high priority area for the SF. Now it is SF that often sits in the financial law negotiations, and not the Danish People's Party. Otherwise, we would probably travel it, but now we know that SF is doing it, and we will support the SF in that fight and contribute with everything we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115619	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115620	Yeah, well, it's kind of sweet to wish the SF good luck in the negotiations on the Finance Act. I remember that the Danish People's Party has been sitting there for years, and it didn't move a lot of millimeters on this question. So what I'm really after here is: these families, who looked openly in addition to there's a socio-economic interest in it, experience that the benefit of getting a bonus on their work or just working extra hours, yes, it's first and foremost a serious economic kick in the back. That's why it's also about getting a maneuver done, so we can be sure that the Danish People's Party doesn't run away from this, but that there's still support for us to have lifted this fear of eternal bills from the public sector, just because the partner has made an extra effort, or so far has a job that's above this relatively low limit of what you have to earn. There is a need for a larger alliance, and I need the Danish People's Party to say that it is not really just going to regulate small things, but actually getting this done away with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115713	I mean, there's talk of little things and millimeters. I think we've just gotten right on the memory... raised the limit of set-off from DKK 60,000. to more than DKK 122,000. Just in recent years, when we've been working on this. So I hope that in SF's terminology it is not the case that going from DKK 60,000. It's just that it's down in petites, and it doesn't matter at all. It has meant something to those who have been included in it. And it just shows that we're not just talking about it. We have also moved some things into the real world. And I would just appeal to the fact that when the SF goes to debate next time, this is such a priority that the good work we did in the past is actually continued, when you are now in the role of supporting party for the government, where we previously sat as a support party for a government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115758	Then there is room for one more brief comment before lunch, and it is for Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115806	Thank you. In other words, I got the feeling that the rapporteur had to cut off three quarters of his speech and did not get the opportunity to talk about what is usually very much involved in the Danish People's Party: the sick, the old and all such things. So now I will give them the chance to ask a very specific question, and I will correct that about our labour market system, our daily allowance. What will the Danish People's Party do about the fact that our daily allowance has been so hollowed out that they now cover only half of the necessities of living in a normal household?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115841	Mrs Jette Gottlieb looks quite right: there were many more things I would have liked to mention. In relation to the allowance: Well, we have been out in the past to welcome this discussion, which has also been raised by FH, i.e. in relation to whether to regulate in another way, and whether there is a backlog one should have looked at. It can be said that what happened to the tax agreement that was made a few years ago was that the daily allowance was less regulated. And it was over a long period of time, and it was under the former Social Democratic Government that it was introduced in 2012. We were against this at the time, and we are also against it today. And it is clear that it will then also cause a backlog that needs to be discussed before you change it. So I think it is in the interests of both the employer and the employee to find out how the benefits actually compensate enough, so you think it can continue to be an important part of our flexicurity system in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115933	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602115934	But then I want to ask more specifically: So, will the Danish People's Party help to stop the erosion which currently stands at 0.75%. in relation to wage and, not least, price developments, which means that people actually have deep problems, especially if it is two in a household who have become unemployed because of unforeseen things? I mean, are you ready here and now to stop that hollow-out? In short, will we be able to vote in favour of stopping it here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602120003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602120005	In other words, we have said this in the past, and I can easily say it here from the platform today, that we are in favour of putting an end to minor regulation. And we have actually been constant while it has been going on, so we are quite ready for that. Then it is clear that in the proposal that has been made by employees there are some additional things that we would naturally like to discuss. And so will we, and that is just to say: we are happy to enter into those discussions. For it is clear that I believe that it is not only in the interests of employees but also of employers that we have a benefit system which is in fact seen as a good system and an attractive system for the many.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602120043	I would like to say a few words of thanks to the chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, thereby postponing the sitting. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130021	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue with questions to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and the first person to have the opportunity to ask a question or a brief comment is Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130036	Thank you. In the last term, the Danish People's Party was a very large party and part of the ruling majority in the Danish Parliament. Of course, there was also a great influence, and some of that influence was used to ensure that there was a range of radio frequencies that Radio24syv had, which led to Radio24syv having to close. And there are many who are grieving, including myself and apparently also the Danish People's Party's cultural rapporteur, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who has spent a lot of time since the election, as well as claiming and making it look as if it is the Danish People's Party who is sad that Radio24syv has been closed. I would very much like to have Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to confirm that it was the Danish People's Party that made the offer such that Radio24syv had to close. Both because you don't have to take that honor, seen with mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's eyes, from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, but also for the people who thought it was a bad policy, just as the Danish People's Party has to blame.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130200	In other words, when we were negotiating media policy at the time, we wanted more media to be spread out in the landscape, that is, that we had, it might be said, broken the monopoly that is increasingly happening in the media picture in Copenhagen. So we were very focused on that. How it would end up in relation to the various media that would offer the assignments, we didn't even see it at that time. It was first something that was made clear far along in the process, i.e. that the owners of Radio24seven would not bid under those conditions. But we weren't driven by anything compared to Radio24seven. We were driven by a desire that the media landscape we see in Denmark should be diverse and that it should be around all parts of the country because we believe that you can best cover what is happening around our country if you also have media and journalists who are engaged in the task and who are around different places in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130252	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130253	Yes, and the consequence of that policy was so that Radio24syv could not continue in this way and therefore did not bid on the frequency. So the consequence of that policy and it was also known before the agreement was made that Radio24seven in the mode of existence we knew it had to close. Is it not a little dishonest, frankly, that one has one's cultural rapporteur to go around the country today saying that the cultural rapporteur who speaks on behalf of the party is very sorry that Radio24seven had to close and that the cultural rapporteur was actually opposed and fought against Radio24seven having to close? Is it not a dishonesty to the people and a disrespect to the people when they do not tell the truth in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130335	No, and I have to say that I personally believed far along in the process that the owners of Radio24seven would actually still bid for the task, even if it was a radio that would have to broadcast from somewhere other than Copenhagen. So no, this wasn't about not also recognizing that there wasn't any good work being done at that station, because of course there was. Also, things that we would have liked to continue to have had today. But our wish from the very beginning, when we negotiated the media agreement with the then government, was, of course, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen knows very well how to spread things so that things are not monopolised, what else they tend to do in Copenhagen, but that all of Denmark is covered by good journalistic programs for the Danes. Because we believe that you can best do journalism for the whole of Denmark, if you also have journalists who are located all over Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130423	Sir. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130427	Yeah, the best radio program at that station was Europe in Flammer... with the reporter and the signed... but let's leave it alone. It's too bad it was closed. Anyway, I would like to ask something quite different, and that is whether Assad in Syria in the Danish People's Party's Optics should be brought before a war criminal court.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130457	In other words, one can say that he has at least committed acts of violence against his people, and we think it is fine if we can be held accountable for the things we do. And then it is clear that if that situation arises, it is probably not the Danish People's Party that has any major influence on how such a thing comes about in the stack. But the very idea that, with what we are doing, we will all be able to be held accountable in one way or another is, of course, a good principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130526	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130537	I'm glad to hear that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl actually means. After all, the cultural rapporteur who has just been reported has raised doubts as to whether it would actually be the right thing to do. And it just puzzles me a little in the light of many things. But then there is another thing that puzzles me: if we now believe that Assad should be brought before a war criminal court, then it is also a recognition that that man is committing some terrible crimes and is dangerous. How, then, can one be as concerned about pushing as many people from Syria as possible back to Syria, as long as a man that one would like to have before a war criminal court sits in power? In my opinion, that does not make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130618	But that's where the chain completely gets off. Well, we have 140,000 people in the Syria local area, its neighborhood, who have returned to Syria. It is typically the least resourceful who have fled to the vicinity, and then they return, but the more resourceful who have reached Denmark, Mr. Jens Rohde a fight for must be allowed to stay in Denmark. I mean, if there are relationships, for example. The Damascus area, which allows these people to return on an equal footing with them in the neighborhood, must of course return.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130648	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130651	Thank you. And thank you to the chairman of the Danish People's Party. Now we are looking forward, and that is what I really want to ask, but I would also like to welcome the fact that one of the great things we have done together here has been Arnepensionen, which creates a structural improvement and is one of the things we discussed before the elections. It has to be said that the impatience was great among all parties, including the Danish People's Party, which had a counter. I haven't checked, but I assume it's been removed from the website by now. And I think that is a really good example of what this Parliament can do when we really are making structural changes for those who need it. So is the question for the future: Where is it that the Danish People's Party sees the next major projects in terms of ensuring a better and fairer labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130740	Yes, but I could also express a little regret that the agreement was not even so great that it could find its way to the Prime Minister's speech earlier here today, or was it included? Oh, that's good. Oh, that's good. I'm gonna go downstairs and reread this. I think I was disturbed by the two sitting next to me at the time when it got into the speech. I'll be delighted. This is precisely an example of the fact that we in the Danish People's Party are in favour of the co-operative folk regime, and that where we think we can make a difference for the benefit of the Danes we really need, we do. We find the majority constellations that are an opportunity, and we are happy to do so in the future. I think, particularly when we talk about our labour market, that we have a lot of focus on young people, whether they are going to the right place and things like that. I think that is the one important agenda. But the second is also the seniors, because whether or not I think that the retirement age should be raised further, it has been raised. And we need a labour market that also demands seniors, and I do not think that is being done enough today. It is as if they say that when people round the 50 years, and that's something I've become increasingly aware of, they're kind of sidetracked; I can hear that from people. And that's just not gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130858	I understand that the President of the Left has previously confirmed that the Minutes are being kept, and we can then be sure that Arne will, of course, fill something. But some of the things that the Prime Minister also mentioned, and some of the things that we are concerned about, are partly in relation to skilled labour, partly in relation to ensuring, of course, that everyone becomes part of the labour market, including immigrant women, etc., which is one of the things that will bring labour into the labour market and, of course, also help to ensure that we have a labour market that can also develop. Then we still look away that there's...
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130940	Speaking time has passed. Did the rapporteur understand the question? Good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602130951	I think it is vitally important that we have the professional labour we need, but also that immigrant women enter jobs, as was mentioned, is absolutely crucial. Now I just saw that the Jyllands-Posten has an assessment that the new Service Commission's proposal shows that 40%. In other words, the proposal will be more successful if it is implemented because the benefits of integration will grow. You can then discuss whether you think it is a way of getting people who come here to work more and more, and that also applies to the immigrant women that we have not got in jobs. That is something I hope we will be discussing, because we have an interest in the fact that if they are to be here in Denmark, they must of course also contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131039	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131041	Thank you. I was pleased to read Berlingske this morning about Radicals' proposal and invitation to cooperate on economic policy and reform. Therefore, I would like to ask whether it is also something that the Danish People's Party could see itself in. For example: The Radical Left proposes to reduce corporate tax as one of the elements. Was it something that the Danish People's Party could see itself in? Because then perhaps we actually have a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131109	This is a very exciting discussion, because it is true: it is both the lowering of corporation tax, and it is also, as I understand it, the removing of the post-retirement income, going into the meat of the top tax and possibly raising the retirement age more. There is no surprise that New Citizens like it. Because it's like it's written from your program. But it is clear that we who would like to be the social conscience of the bourgeois society would like to insist a little that it is still the case that the broad shoulders carry some heavy burdens in this country. In isolation from corporate tax, we have helped to reduce it in the past. We do not have a particular religious attitude to what corporate tax should be; it should be competitive in Denmark. But in relation to the whole palette that has emerged in Berlingske, it is clear that we have a little more nuanced views which will not come as a surprise to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131208	No, that's clear; it's not everything in the salad you like. But politics is also about compromise and finding each other and where we can agree on things. And here there is something about corporate tax, and then it may be that we can agree there. Then it is about biting to fuck, if there is a majority to do something good for Danish business, which is to a large extent the broad shoulders that carry the Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131230	But my point about mentioning the other things is that there must also be funding and that is why I really do not think it is surprising that New Citizens support the palette. It's often the funding it can lame with. I am rather sceptical about some of the sources of funding that have at least been proposed here. That's one of them. to start taxing the landowners, while at the same time, over the next few years, we will actually have a new housing tax system, which we have already adopted. We're just waiting for the tax authorities to implement and implement it. That's how there's so much with the tax authorities, unfortunately. Will we then tax the property owners further in order to find money to lower corporate tax? That's one of them. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Lars Boje Mathisen quotes here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131310	Sir. Anders Kronborg, Esbjerg, Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131312	Thank you so much. It was great to be introduced with a city name. It's not like every day you become one. Then I can continue to say that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and I are elected in the same large circle, in South Jutland, and I know that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is also interested in the increased centralisation that has taken place in recent years and where Dansk Folkeparti has also come up with exciting initiatives and wants to create a decentralization. I have always learned that in politics you have to look ahead and look back, and not least you have to look back when you have to learn in relation to the future. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has also been a parliamentary basis for a Left Government, which has been so centralised in Denmark, so I would like to ask Mr Dahl. Kristian Thulesen Dahl about Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti have learned, or believe that there is something one can learn from the centralisation decisions taken under the leadership of the Left by this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131408	Absolutely one can learn from the past, and one must, but it is not the case that one should not be able to make mistakes. We all have to be able to do that. What you have to do is learn from them and then don't do them twice. That's what you usually say, isn't it? But I would say that if we take the example of health, I still think it has been good on the one hand that we have got some new hospitals for the benefit of the Danes. There are a lot of Danes who, if they are to have a specialized operation, do not mind driving a little longer or being driven a little longer to get to the right professionals. The second leg has not been completed. After all, we put forward a proposal on this before the elections, in other words in relation to health reform. The second leg is that everything that can be close must be close, and the government has chosen to say that the reform that took place before the elections will not be implemented. A new health reform has been promised, but has not come forward with it, and I think this is starting to be a matter of urgency for us to have a two-legged health service which specialises in some things, yes, and centralised some things. But there is a lack of the decentralized leg, which I hope we will soon be able to start negotiating.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131507-2	It was certainly a plan for something that could be done. Something I'm at least noticing, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, in the area in which we are elected, is that there are a lot of people who live and want to live and live in rural areas, but that we also have stories that it is difficult to borrow money for example. a house. After all, we have proposed that there should be a state guarantee on the outermost quarter, where the square metre price is below DKK 8,000, simply to support and help. I have tried to study a little, and I have not seen what the Danish People's Party thinks about it, but it could be that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl could shed some light on that part of our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131544	Now it should not be such a battle for copyright, because I can, of course, send our proposal from the beginning of the year, when we have a whole game of improvement for rural areas in order to achieve a better balance in our country. It is not necessarily from where the government has sought inspiration, but it could be, and I am pleased about that. That is why I have in fact indicated that we think it is very good to make proposals which, among other things, are important. Remedies this grotesque situation, that you can have rural areas where the houses are for sale for almost nothing, but where people can't buy them anyway because they can't get a simple mortgage in the house. After all, this is an experience that we have had and which has also led us to propose it, and when others also make proposals, we just have to find a way of putting it into practice for the benefit of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131629	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131631	I would like to pick up where my political colleague left off, because I would also like to ask about state-guaranteed loans. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who has been elected in the same great circle as me, knows that there are challenges with loans. It creates insecurity, it creates inequality, and it pushes people in the arms of the Outdoor Bank at interest rates of 8-9 per cent. And I don't think I got a clear answer. For SF has since 2014 proposed either a State mortgage institution or state guaranteed loans, and Dansk Folkeparti has never supported this. So I would like to have a clear answer to: Bakker Dansk Folkeparti up about state-guaranteed loans yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131716	I think we should just sit down and find out what the model should be, because we have exactly the same ambition that Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt is asking about here, in terms of ensuring that it is possible to get house sales going, even in areas outside the major cities. I really think this whole discussion is thought-provoking. At the same time, we are discussing whether we need to intervene against a glorious housing market in our largest cities and whether we need to let the state go in and guarantee loans in our rural areas so that we can get the house sales going at all. It's just to remind people what the conditions really are in this geographically small country. That's crazy. That is why we must, of course, do something. And I believe that we need to do a wide range of initiatives. Well, I don't think it's one thing that does this. It is about a wide range of initiatives. That is why we came earlier this year with a complete debate on rural areas and what it took in many different fields. And we are very happy to enter into negotiations in order to achieve it, so that it becomes a practical reality for Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131820	I was not wiser because I did not get an answer as to whether state-guaranteed loans were backed up. I was given a different answer, which was that perhaps something would be done. I have read the long programme of the Danish People's Party, and this programme actually includes state-guaranteed loans for grocery stores. So I am almost tempted to ask: is grocery stores more important for the Danish People's Party than the citizens who get stuck in rural areas? And now that there is a government proposal for state-guaranteed loans that will certainly solve some of it, why can't Dansk Folkeparti just say: Yes, of course, we support it? After all, nothing has happened in all the time the Danish People's Party has been watching this area. We still have problems with loans in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131908	That is because we want to negotiate it, and that is because we want to see whether the concrete model that is being proposed is the one we like when we get down to the detail. That is why I am not just going to say: yes, we are just supporting that proposal. We'd like to negotiate it. We have the same ambitions and the same intention as the author of the question, namely that we must ensure that it is possible also to convert houses in that part of the country where it is very difficult to convert houses. What exactly model we then choose for it, we will very much negotiate. I think we should take this as an outstretched hand and welcome the fact that there is a party in a cooperative popular government that will, rather than just trying to play a little angry at the fact that we do not get an answer as to whether we will support a very specific proposal that the government has put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131947	Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602131950	Thank you. Now we have heard of the cooperative popular government sometimes under Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's speech, both from the questioner and from the speaker himself, so I would like to continue on that track. We actually do quite a lot of things together, i.e. the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, but perhaps not everyone knows that, either in here or in the rooms, in the tax area. The Danish People's Party has a very pragmatic and practically oriented tax rapporteur, who repeatedly helps to vote through very sensible tax legislation, and the Danish People's Party does not have anything as difficult as for example. a tax freeze hanging over their heads, which they must constantly weigh things up against. For this reason, the Danish People's Party is, in fact, precisely in the field of taxation, a partner of the Radical Left. In the past, the speaker has refused to look at the interest-rate subsidy, to which, if I understood correctly, was referred, and I would like to ask something: of all the many financing proposals mentioned by Sofie Carsten Nielsen in the Berlingske article here yesterday, which of the proposals could the speaker imagine helping to finance some of what we may even dream together to develop in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132106-2	That's amazing. First of all, Mr President, I would like to confirm the impression of our tax rapporteur. Dennis Flydtkjær, because I fully agree. He is a brave colleague, does it very well and is very pragmatic and result-seeking, and we very much like such rapporteurs. As I actually read Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen in Berlingske, it was in fact that she did not adopt a range of specific funding proposals, but that she said you were extremely open to discussing funding. Then you could say that perhaps it is a little fresh that I should then stand out here and pick out a certain funding and say that it has to be that one, if we are to be involved in anything. We all want a lot of good things, and it can cost money, whether we have to increase welfare in one place or whether we have to relax taxes somewhere else, and then we have to find the money for it, and it is always there, we know that from experience, it will be difficult. We are happy to sit down and discuss this, but I think it would be unwise of me if we were to achieve a result at any time, that I would then have said in advance exactly what kind of funding we would end up accepting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132204-2	I believe that the speaker has been so many years in Danish politics that the speaker has started to sound radical. There was a lot of answers around the issue here and there was nothing specific. So let me be more specific. Perhaps I would like a direct answer to the question. In the Radical Left, we consider the interest allowance to be a state-aided loan grant to the wealthiest people in Denmark, and I could only imagine that the Danish People's Party was in fact in a social policy path which might perhaps be able to agree to look at whether the interest allowance should really be reduced by, let us for example. say 10%. or something similar, and then, of course, it should be phased out over a number of years quite quietly, and thus there should be some funding for everything we want together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132253-2	After all, a broad majority in the Folketing has made an agreement on housing taxation, which means that as soon as SKAT is ready, when they can get their act together to get ready with the IT system to support it, there will be a new housing tax system, which means that it is more dependent on taxing on the value of the dwelling. Then the question is whether, at the same time as we introduce it, we should start taxing property owners harder on top of that. That is what the Radicals are proposing. I'm just not sure that's a good idea. It may well be that right now you are looking at a Copenhagen housing market and perhaps also an Aarhusn housing market that is hot, but if you look into the country at all, there is basically not a lot of speed on the housing market. After all, it is an extremely divided housing market that we have, and if you start cutting the right to deduct interest, will you do it alone for those who live in Copenhagen and Aarhus, or will you do it all over the country? I guess you're gonna do it all over the country. We have just been talking about how we are to ensure that in the rest of the country, too, housing turnover gets under way, so some people are even beginning to suggest that we have to state guarantees for mortgage loans to be taken, while the Radicals will then cut the right of interest relief for the people who then buy that housing. That's where I think you have to see this in a context. It may sound radical, but then you should be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132410	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132412	Thank you. Now we have seen that the Radical Left in Berlingske is out with all kinds of and impossible inequality-building proposals, such as lower top tax, lower corporation tax, the abolition of post-retirement pay, higher retirement age even earlier and more foreign labour at lower wages. Is there one of the proposals that the Radical Left is touring with in today's edition of Berlingske, which the Danish People's Party can say today is something that is supported? I ask, of course, because the Danish People's Party has the decisive mandates here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132447	It is, after all, a variety of the question that came with the opposite sign just before. After all, the funding proposals mentioned here, which are also set out in the Berlingske article, are some that we have expressed our opposition to in the past. To raise the pensionable age further, to eliminate the early retirement wage, to further tax property owners, etc. We've had problems. That is why it is clear that we think that the things that come here and that we have also been presented in the past are the expression of classic liberalist economic thinking. After all, we all know how we fought a little with the Liberal Alliance in particular during the last parliamentary term on some of the same points, and now the Radicals come up with them. All honour and respect for that, because it is a good thing that the parties are putting forward their policies. There's nothing wrong with that. If we are going to be part of a debate at some point in making an economic policy we would very much like to see what happens. However, there should be no doubt as to which policy the Danish People's Party enters the room with. That is the policy we are familiar with, where we want to form it in our own optics social conscience in bourgeois Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132600	I take that as a no to my question. I am pleased about that, and we will then keep the Danish People's Party up to it. Then I have another question. This is another matter in which we do not need the votes of the Radicals, and it is a question of stopping the dismantling of the daily allowance and, moreover, of making further improvements to the benefit system. So I would like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Couldn't the Danish People's Party imagine that we sat down without the Radical Left and then talked about how we could make some improvements to the benefit system? What do you think, sir? Kristian Thulesen Dahl about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132632-2	In other words, we are always prepared to negotiate, also to secure a benefit system which both employers and employees in fact still think is the basis for a healthy labour market, as we have been used to it in Denmark. I also mentioned earlier to Mrs Jette Gottlieb that we have never liked the dismantling of the daily allowance, which was adopted in 2012 in the tax reform of the then Socialist-led government. So we are happy to engage in such discussions and it is not our aim to keep some others out. All those who want to look at it must be present at the table in our optics, but it is not we who, it can be said, have the right to serve, in relation to who is negotiating the policy in different government rooms right now. However, if we are invited, we will certainly be able to enter into negotiations of this kind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132718	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132722	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for some, I think, very sensible thoughts about a Denmark in better balance and the fact that one can see that there is a imbalance, and that is the housing market, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also mentioned, yes, a symptom of. I think that the approach to the issue that citizens are for us to have a constructive dialogue between our parties on resolving some of the challenges. I think that is very, very positive. During the closing debate a year ago, one of my colleagues asked Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl about whom the Danish People's Party pointed as Prime Minister's candidate, and there was no very clear answer to that. I think sir... Morten Messerschmidt has subsequently shed a little more light on the issue by saying that it depends on whether there will be clarity about what the bourgeois project is. I do not know whether there has since been much clarity about the substance, but the outlines of a civil project could, for example, be the draft Finance Bill of the Conservatives, which includes among others. proposes some significant top tax incentives financed by making savings in prisons, courts and the tax administration. How does Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on the bourgeois project presented by Conservatives there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132837	I'm looking down at sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, and I think he might think that some things had been picked from the project, while others were not mentioned, so it contains probably as usual a variety of different things that the Conservatives want, and peace be with it. Listen, I'm not supposed to be giving grades to other parties' politics in this way. We have our policy, and we are putting it forward and fighting for it, and it is clear that if, at some point in the post-election period, there is a majority in favour of us being among the parties pointing to a government, then I am quite sure that we will find out how it is going to happen. It is just as after the last election, where the other side of the Chamber had the opportunity and, in spite of quite different starting points, made an understanding paper and found each other. This will probably happen if the majority is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602132932-2	Thank you. I think that was a fine and nuanced answer, but perhaps not a very clear answer, but I have to live with that. Does what I can then refer to from the Conservatives' Finance Bill, about savings in prisons and courts, as well as about top tax reliefs of course there is also other reason in the Conservatives' policy that the Danish People's Party has come closer to being able to answer the original question, which is now one year old, namely who is the Danish People's Party pointing to as Prime Minister candidate for the Blue Block?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602133010	Well, I just want to say that our position on top tax is quite well known. The threshold for paying top tax has been raised for a number of years, and we do not think it should be raised further, we do not think it should be reduced. If tax cuts are to be granted at all, we think they should be given at the bottom to people who have low incomes so that it becomes more attractive to get to work etc. I think that what the Commission has come up with illustrates that it is then an agenda that has perhaps become even more important with the political atmosphere that is in it. I just want to say that. In relation to a Prime Minister's candidate, we made it clear after the 2019 elections that we would point to a Prime Minister's candidate before a forthcoming election, but that we would also reserve the right to allow the parliamentary term to go fairly well and see how it developed, because there will be no automatism in what may have been in the past. The announcement we made in August 2019 is exactly the same message as the one we make here in June 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602133103	Yes, it is almost the rapporteur talking time away, but we can reach a fresh young person and we take Jacob Mark from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602133111	Thank you. But then I will have the opportunity to ask the question which I have also put to the chairman of the Danish People's Party before, namely about the educational readiness assessment in the primary school, which is something of a heart for me to have abolished, and what has happened since I asked at the last debate is that now both the Left and the Conservatives have also recognised that it is a mistake to declare one in three young people in Denmark as non-educational. All young people are ready for education. Not everyone is ready for a high school or vocational training which has high professional requirements, but then you may be ready for a 10th class, a post-school, a fgu or a specially organized course. In fact, we can see in the research that some of the things that pressure our young people in primary school most are this educational readiness assessment, i.e. that so many get a dunk on top of your head that you are not ready for any education. Now that the bourgeois friends in the Left and the Conservatives have announced that they do not believe that you should give that stamp to the non-educational staff, is it not time that the Danish People's Party joined the car so that we can have it changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602133219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602133220	I think it is quite right that this is about what young people can do, more than what they can't, and that you try to find opportunities and ways through, and that things shouldn't turn out to be just that you think you're being pushed down. It can be said that they are motivated, as Mr. I fully agree with Jacob Mark here. At the same time, we must have a system in which we can say that we are also motivated and where the school is, as it were, motivated to provide young people with the skills they need in order to actually move on. And it is clear that what we can then talk about here is what the tools are for you to actually have that motivation, so you get to where the doors open and not where the doors are closed, when you have grown a few years older in your life. Then you can talk about this concept of education or not, but in some sense we probably need some of the content of it, that is to say, to keep chasing what the professionals, teachers etc. are chasing all the time. to help this young person to be able to, so that the doors open a few years later and do not close.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602133324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602133325	But for example... I would like to see a number of our young people who do not think it is so great to go to school, who are not so happy with what is very academic, perhaps being created master apprenticeship schemes or professional classes, and that is also education. It's just not that a little stiff-necked way we usually think about education, that is, that there's only high school, and there's SF's mission just that in the future we don't give young people the stamp that they're not training ready because they, for example, are. In this context, it is important to stress the importance of vocational training for young people and for them to be able to take part in a specific training course. And I hope so that the Danish People's Party will participate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602133403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602133404	That's also why I put up with the idea that you have to do things in a way that doesn't experience it as a gook in need, but that it is experienced as a help. And I fully agree with Mr. Jacob Mark in that the fact that young people choose to go the vocational path in one way or another, possibly in master's teaching, is just fantastic. Well, it's only gratifying because there are some young people who will have a much better life from being led that way than through a academic education that makes them just feel that they are constantly getting a closed door in their heads because they don't think they can meet the requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602133443	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the effort. Unfortunately, there is no time for further questions. We are moving forward and I would like to warmly welcome Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602133508	Pia's happy, Sofie's pissed off, and Mai's in between. That's how I read in Politiken recently... Danish policy's response to the good, the bad and the cruel... well. However, I am happy to take on the role of the happy one, because I am pleased with everything we have achieved together in the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left, the Social Democratic Party and the SF: minimum standards, consent law, climate law, children out of Zealand, family allowances for the poorest families of children in Denmark, children home from Syria, free psychological assistance for young people under 25 years of age, Arnepension for worn out, 1 billion. kr. to the primary school, 15 national parks, 75,000 hectares of untouched forests, quota refugees, an agreement on significantly more electric cars, a strengthening of tax control, a strengthened psychiatry, a halt to Blackstone's attack on the rental market, a stop to the oil hunt in the North Sea, a stop to the re-priority contribution, a stop to the education ceiling, dental care for vulnerable people, more staff in the care of the elderly, a break with quick loans, and something that I personally, but as we also in the SF from Margrete Auken, Steen Gade, Anna Marie Touborg to Bente Nielsen, have been fighting for for for more than 50 years, namely funding to clean up the largest soil pollution scandals in Denmark. Høfte 42 in Thyborøn, Henne Strand, Grindsted and many more now have the poison removed from the underground. Yeah, I feel like I'm gonna say, boom! For yes, just call me happy; as long as we can deliver red and green results, we are in SF happy; as long as our cooperation makes Denmark greener and it makes us reach the Paris agreement, we are in SF happy; as long as we invest in welfare, as changing bourgeois governments have time and again worn down, yes, then we are in SF happy. But the trees are not now growing into the sky, and the corona crisis has also been a brake on the great green and social recovery, which it is just the duty of the centre-left to deliver on. So we have to move on. We must fulfil our climate promises, we must go all the way to Paris and we must not stop in Hamburg, and that means that agriculture must enter the climate struggle. We need a CO2 We need to move on to restore welfare, because it is not worthy of a welfare society when we send new parents home after a birth before they are safe; it is not worthy of a welfare society when there are 28 students in a hot classroom with noise until late in the afternoon; it is not worthy of a welfare society when cleaning is reduced to every three weeks for our elderly. And frankly, should we not put an end to the civil service reform of 1969, which is a huge barrier to equal pay in the public sector? There's still plenty for the center-left to do. After all, we must also combat inequality, combat child poverty and create security for benefit recipients. In the last few years of corona, some citizens have become many times richer because their homes have exploded in value, while others have lost their jobs and live on a deteriorated benefit system. While the wealthiest homeowners are financed from the Treasury, we ask the poorest to redistribute poverty among themselves when a new system of benefits is to be created. It's crooked. However, one thing is certain: we can only solve the aforementioned tasks by standing together in the centre-left, by bent against each other, by making compromises, by listening to the popular movements that went on the street for a new direction for Denmark, for they deserve that, to #Where isEnVokssen?, who fortunately insists that the fight for a safe everyday life for our very least does not stop with the agreement on minimum statutory standards, for they must also work in reality, to the climate movement, which insists that we have to reach the goal even faster, and therefore requires action now, to the next aiders, to #enmillion voices, yes, all the social movements that insist on justice and goodness, yes, also for people with a different skin color. So, friends, we have a lot we can solve together in the Enhedslisten, the Social Democracy, the Radical Left and the SF. On Saturday it is 2 years since we got a new majority in Denmark, and as you know, it is not quite easy to be 2 years old. You are entering the defiance, you throw yourself on the floor of Fact when you get a no to an ice cream, and you still have plenty to learn, but a 2-year-old is also curious, full of energy and adventurous, so there is hope for the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134110	You're welcome. The first question is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134114	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a happy and optimistic speech. It is hard to avoid being infected by it, that is, until you find out where the joy comes from, then it passes. By the way, I agree that the government seems to be heading into defiance and throwing itself off the ground when things go against them a little. One of the things mentioned by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is what the Service Commission has presented and their recommendations for a new system of benefits. This is among other things. A system in which, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has said, benefits are raised to a group and, in return, lowers them for other groups. SF's employment rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge, has been out to say that you have to drive the temporary child benefit into the system. Therefore, I just need to know whether it is going to be a requirement from the SF that the benefits be increased at least with what has been agreed in relation to them, it is still claimed, temporary benefits, where an extra benefit of DKK 2 000 is provided. tax-free on top of the integration benefit in return for not contributing to the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134228	When we made the understanding paper, we generally agreed that there are too many poor children in Denmark, children who experience parents who have to choose between buying medicine, a new flight suit or having food at the end of the month. If sir... Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen experience people who often have nothing to eat, who are outraged and thus make it to day and road. In fact, I would like to congratulate the Service Commission on several elements. I think there is some logic in some of the things they put forward. They are getting the benefits cleaned up, but they have also been given the task of making it revenue-neutral. There should be no doubt that, when we are about to negotiate, we from the SF will spend the money we have set aside for child benefit and put them into the benefits so that we can raise them, because we think there should be fewer poor children in Denmark. I also think it would be a good idea for the Left to recognise that we should not, of course, have poor children in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134328-2	I'd love to sign for that. I also think that there should be fewer poor children in Denmark, and the best way to get it is by their parents getting a job, because being on cash aid is unfortunately hereditary, and the best thing we can do to avoid the negative social heritage is to ensure that parents get to work. This is not done in the way proposed by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. After the last parliamentary elections of just under two years ago, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said that the SF had a single ultimate demand, namely the abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits, and that it was so important that it was not discussed. Now it is with the Commission that they are also proposing such irresponsible abolition. Is it still an ultimate requirement for SF in order to participate in the process here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134419-2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134422	Thank you. Then the next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134429	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and also thank you to the SF and the rapporteur if we are to stay in the happy terminology, because we are happy people for the joint effort on the Langeland exit centre. In other words, it was the SF who was also very much involved in creating the majority that made the minister say that one would not drive over a majority in the Folketing and therefore the idea of an exit centre on Langeland was dropped. The reason I ask about this and would like to hear more from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr about it is that I have sensed that SF thinks it is fine that these 130 convicted criminal foreigners stay at Kærshovedgård in Central Jutland. Does SF really think it's a viable solution for these people to stay there? Or does SF like us in the Danish People's Party believe that the government must make another bid at an exit center, otherwise the Folketing may have to step in and take responsibility from the government if the government does not want to keep its promises to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134532	So, SF has said no to Langeland, which is why there is no exit centre on Langeland. And we have done so because Langeland has inconceivable many social problems in advance and is about to lift himself out of them now with a very good mayor down there, who happens to be SFs, and who have succeeded in ensuring that families with children come to Langeland. It is actually a success story that I think we should build on in relation to many other places in our country. It is better at Langeland, so of course they should not have an exit centre, because it must depend on the balances that are in a society. That is why we have told the government that we would like to get into that room, which we have also written in the understanding paper, and look at the various options that might be available and discuss them. We're not really opposed to moving someone from Kærshovedgård. We have not been sitting there thinking that this is the best solution, but we do not know what other solutions are and that would be our starting point. And until then there are no other solutions but that they can be at Kærshovedgård. I would like to hear Kristian Thulesen Dahl make another bid, in other words, in addition to proposing to put it in Greenland, where they have actually self-employed but somewhere in Denmark I am glad to hear about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134643	Yes, but that is what we have proposed, that is, with the island of Lindholm. We went to elections on that and there was also a government at the time that was willing to run it through, although of course there would also be people in that area of our lovely country who would be sorry to have it placed there. Contrary to that, there is the current government which actually has the authority to place such an exit centre wherever you like, but then chooses to say that it will not, because among other things. SF along with the rest of us thought it was a bad idea with Langeland. I completely agree that it was a bad idea with Langeland, but I just ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr: is it SF's policy to say to the Mid-Joys that you just have to keep having these people in Central Jutland? Or what is the government's, no, SF's alternative bid then? Yes, I'm sorry, I said the government, but sometimes it can almost seem like Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr is in government. So is there an opposition in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134727	I think the government felt that we were not in government when we were discussing the Langeland exit centre, but peace be with it. I think Kristian Thulesen Dahl has taken note of that too. In other words, we have talked to the government and made it very clear that we would like to meet and discuss the various options that exist. It was a clear demand from both Radical Left, SF and Enhedslisten when we negotiated the understanding paper that the exit centre should not be located on Lindholm. Although I hear the bourgeois people say over and over again that it is a desert island and so on, people actually live in Kalvehave and there would be ferry departures. These people are not to be locked up; they are no longer criminals, so they actually have the right to move around. And that is why it is a difficult task that I actually acknowledge, and that is why I think we should discuss this with the Minister and try to see if we can find a common solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134812	Especially today, we have to take care of time. It's such a pity for those who have prepared themselves. And what if the rapporteur gets a question less than she expected. That would be sad. The next is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134826	Thank you, then I must try to be brief. As the educational rapporteur for Radicals, I certainly have a great hope that we share a lot of ambition with the SF that education should create opportunities for more people and also preferably throughout Denmark. That is also why we really want to be involved in setting up new training courses elsewhere in the country than where they are today. However, the government has put forward a relocation project, and in this context I would just like to hear whether SF supports the Social Democrats' plan and the desire to close down one in ten study places in Aarhus, Aalborg, Odense and Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602134912	I am pleased that, together with the Radical Left, we share the intention and the idea with the government that there should be more seats around the country. I myself think it is a good idea to have veterinary training in Foulum, because there is a professional environment. It is not only in Copenhagen that you have it. I think we should all acknowledge that. It is not only in Copenhagen that you have professional environments. That's what you're gonna get in Foulum. There's a science community there. I think it is also a good idea to move the education programmes out sometimes so that they are close to those who need them, otherwise we risk people moving away. I think that will be crucial. In fact, I was very opposed to it when the bourgeois government had an idea to just shut down those seminaries and everything else and move it in and centralize it more and more, because it meant that these young people moved away for longer periods. I would very much like to discuss whether it should be 10%. I think that there may be some training where it makes no sense at all. But I would also like to be honest and say that we are going into the negotiating room and discussing it here, because it is also important for the SF to do decentralisation. I hope we can find a common solution. That is our ambition. Perhaps we can bridge the gap between the Radical Left and the government. It could be a plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135019-2	SF can then try to do that. I would also like to ask about the financing of this. I think we agree that if you want to set up new training courses I am, of course, sorry that we cannot have a clear refusal to close up education in the towns and cities, then it costs money. And it costs new money, at least through radical spectacles, if we want to be sure that we actually have quality education too. Because we don't want A and B educations. What the government has put forward is, after all, to take from the money that has already been given for education. Will the SF help Radicals to ensure that proper funding is provided?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135100	Yes, we're always happy to help the Radical Left. We are some of those who are concerned about helping others when we sit in the negotiations. I don't want it to be a secret. We'd be happy to take that on. But what we're a little concerned about is these balances. Because we are not just going to cut down on studies that are searching for and where there are already challenges in getting space, for example. University of Copenhagen or Aarhus. We're not gonna just make a model like this where one size fits all. But there are some educations that people do not apply to. But if you put them somewhere else in the country, there could be people coming in. So the whole thing about just completely rejecting it, I'm not there. That is why it will not be a black and white answer. I wish I could do it, but politics isn't like that either. I know that the Radical Left understands that there are more nuances in politics than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135140	Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten, De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135143	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Right now we are discussing a bill here in the Danish Parliament to allow Denmark to set up a reception centre in a third country. In my view, this is a legislative proposal which is about completely disclaiming responsibility for asylum seekers, for the refugee crisis. And we're in the Enhedslisten vertically disagreed. I am aware that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and her party intend to vote against the bill as it is now, but what was rather unclear when we had the first reading of the bill was whether the SF is actually opposed to creating a reception centre in another country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135223	In other words, the best thing I can see when it comes to treating people for asylum would be to do so in the neighbourhoods. I'm serious about that. And I do so on the basis of the question of who is actually able to move from the refugee camps we have. It is often young men, it is often some who have fortunes, and it is they who also have the power and energy, because we both know that it is hard to throw themselves into a dinghy and then sail across the Mediterranean Sea. So I would really like to move asylum treatment to UN camps where it is in the neighbourhood. That is why we have the refugee quota system, which I think works very well and where I, together with the Enhedslisten, would like us to be able to accept more quota refugees, because that is what we need. So it'll be the model. In fact, I wish that we did not have refugees at our borders, but that we could save them the journey. The reason we have said no to the government's proposals and we do; there is no doubt that we are saying no to the government's proposals is that we cannot be told what kind of reception centre we are talking about. And we do not imagine that Denmark should have its own reception centre, but I would not deny as clearly that we could imagine that there were reception centres elsewhere in the world because there might be meaning to it. But it should not be Denmark that has a reception centre; it should be a solution in, for example, Denmark. U.N. Under the auspices of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135342	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135343	Well, we do not disagree that the United Nations quota system is the very best solution, and that is why I think we should take not 200, but 2 000 quota refugees in Denmark a year. We don't. But Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, like me, is also aware that there are now so few asylum seekers coming to Denmark that we are actually closing asylum centres. Therefore, I do not see any need to outsource that task. We agree that the asylum system is not working today, and those who pay the highest price for it are the people who are right to flee Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is right. But the solution is not, as I see it, to outsource the task. However, I am pleased to have a clear answer that the SF is not voting in favour of the proposal as it stands, because we need to be a little more in here, which says against the foreign policy being pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135433	I have to say that we are not alone in voting against the proposal. I have seen that the Left is equally opposed to the proposal and that we are actually opposed to the proposal. And it is clear that we are not just giving a government such a free right to lay down the premises for how to have a reception centre in the future. It has to be concrete. We need to have some substance in relation to that. We need to make sure that they respect human rights, that they provide education and many of those fundamental rights that we think are so important in these camps. And we just have to recognise that they are extremely pressured in these camps in the neighbourhoods at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135508	Sir. Mads Andersen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135510	Thank you for that and thank you for a very energetic speech by the President of the SF. I would like to come back to the issue of employment, and I would of course like to ask about the SF's proposal to increase the daily allowance rate to this DKK 23,000. The CEPOS has among other things: have been out with a calculation that it will make 125,000 full-time Danes earn less than what corresponds to these 23,000 DKK. in cash benefits. I would like to ask if this really should be right. Should it really be the case that so many people who go to work every single day should experience a lower income than what the SF's proposal is about in relation to the daily allowance rate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135555	Now it has to be said that the EPOS always rains quite creatively when they rain. So do they in this case. After all, the proposal we have put forward on the daily allowance is that the first three months you are unemployed should have a better daily allowance rate than what we are seeing today. After all, we see unemployment benefits being eroded, and for many people they often only need cash benefits the three months, then they have found a job, and there is no good idea that people have to leave home and home. I have to say that for me the flexible model we have in our labour market is worth gold. It should also be for civil politicians. We have a balance between employer and employee, so that when you are fired in Denmark, the safety net holds hands under you. But that is the problem with unemployment benefits at the moment: they are being eroded so that they do not do so and people have to sell their homes. That is why we have made our proposal, and believe me, it is not the case that gold suddenly grows on the trees of this proposal. I think there are other friends in our vicinity who will criticise us for not being ambitious enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135702	Thank you for perhaps particularly the comment on the flexible labour market. I am of course very much in agreement with that, and I am also glad that the proposal is, after all, only about the three months. Nevertheless, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr must finally come down to the Conservative People's Party and hear about some of our gripes in the toolbox in order to try to get more people into employment. Because that must also be what this is all about, in other words, in addition to companies having to create more jobs, so as to create incentives for more people to get into jobs as well. Perhaps this could be the best way to prevent people from ending up in the benefit system. Isn't that something the SF might be able to discuss?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135739	We are very concerned about what can create employment in Denmark. That is why we have written in the understanding paper, together with our good colleagues in the centre-left, that we should look at getting more in employment by getting more from, for example. forced part-time full-time. You can see that in relation to the educators, which we lack in a large way. Many of them are forced to part-time, and think if they came full-time what that would mean for employment. We see the same in relation to our working environment. There are many people who are sick, and what if we could do something there? So we are looking at everything that can create employment, and also what can create the future of Danish business. We are ready for that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135815	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135818	Thank you so much. On 2 March, Parliament first dealt with a proposal from the Socialist People's Party and the other supporting parties that children with Danish citizenship in Syrian camps should be taken to Denmark. The Social Democratic Party did not support the proposal at the time, and the next day the Prime Minister said about the parents: Denmark is not their home. They've turned their backs on us. They have left Denmark. They have joined the Islamic State, and they have recognized the face of terror. But a few months later, the Prime Minister's pipe has got a completely different sound. The government has given in to, among other things: The pressure of the Socialist People's Party and will now bring 3 IS terrorists and their 14 children to Denmark. Then I would just like to ask whether Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is actually surprised by the Prime Minister's turnaround.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602135916	I am very pleased that we were many parties in the Folketing, who set up a task force to bring the Danish children home from Syria, including bourgeois parties. Because I really think it is a task for Denmark to accept our criminals who sit around the world if they are only Danish citizens, as we say, and as I hear New Citizens say over and over again, that criminals who are condemned must get out of Denmark, I think it is hypocrisy if you do not take your own homes and, above all, the children in the same breath too. I do not believe in the original sin; I am sorry, I really do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140001	There should of course be no doubt that we in New Citizens wanted to deprive all the IS terrorists of their citizenship, whether or not they were taken out, so it is quite clear. When it was announced that the Prime Minister chose to put the Danes in the back and bring the IS terrorists and their children here, the rapporteur, the chairman of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, unspeakably put a big-smile selfie on social media. At the same time it was made clear that it may take a long time to get them to Denmark. It is all the more important that we now have the government's word that this is the goal that is being worked towards every second from now on, said Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Therefore, I would just like to ask the Socialist People's Party whether they have a deadline for their arrival, to which the government must live up to, if not to have consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140052	But the Danish children have to go home to Denmark, and they have to, because we in Denmark have a duty to look after Danish children. I don't really think that's something I want to polemicize. I know that soon it will be used on Facebook and at New Citizens and with some fancy smiley there, because hypocrisy will take no limits. But peace be to it. I just want to say that I don't need the Socialists to take their necks down or anything. I need Danish children to go to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140129	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140132	Thank you. Back in 2014, SF helped implement the former SF Christina Antorini's primary school reform, and it is largely agreed that even the current Social Democratic Minister in this area was a huge failure. Then you see SF being out and saying that you must turn to parents of children, to teachers who have fallen victim to this reform of primary school, which has just made everything worse. Is it good enough just to say that some children suffered, some learning environments suffered, a lot of things suffered, it is good enough just to say that we have like regretted that, or should we also recognise that we should have known better then in 2014, because there was no professional evidence for the reform of primary school, and we were warned and there were other parties that said no? Is it good enough to just say: Well, yes, but now we've changed our minds?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140234	I think we've changed our minds before 2021. It is still seven years since we did the primary school reform, and many things have happened in primary school, fortunately, together with the Liberal Alliance. The Liberal Alliance had an excellent Minister for Education, Merete Riisager, and I would say that we had a good cooperation. We had a good cooperation in the discussion on shorter school days, we had a good cooperation on how to set the primary school free more, and we worked on it together, so I really do not think there are any surprises in it. We can all discuss what happened 7, 10, 30 or 40 years ago, but what I find interesting is what we are doing now. Now there has been an evaluation and it shows very clearly that we have major challenges in our common primary school, which is enough to address, and I hope we can do so together with the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140320	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140321	This is the Liberal Alliance with our then Education Rapporteur, Merete Riisager, at the forefront. Why did the SF jump in? And you've changed it so it won't happen again? What is it in the SF that makes you go along with such a reform of primary school? Has one taken a fundamental showdown in the SF with the ideological wreckage that one has in the party, which makes one jump on the reform of primary school at that time in 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140403	We have changed a lot in the reform of primary schools afterwards. SF has fought very hard for among others. to ensure shorter school days, a more flexible school day, talk about how the teaching subjects should be. We have made suggestions to set the primary school free, and much has happened in SF compared to the primary school. What will be interesting is what we are doing in the future. I think that if we do not take primary school more seriously than we have done so far, as the evaluation shows, then we are abandoning the weakest children, those children who are unable to go home to their parents and get help with all sorts of things. I think we need to talk practical subjects in primary school, because there are different things in primary school that appeal to different people, and I think we need a much more nuanced primary school, and I look forward to discussing this with the Liberal Alliance. If sir... Ole Birk Olesen needs to talk all the time about 2014, I also like to do so, but I really think that what is interesting is to talk about what is forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140457	Sir. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140459	I think it is nice when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr uses the term to set the primary school free. It also requires that the municipalities and our regions should be freed. I remember when we made the municipal reform, because I have a lot of legacy and debt in which I have debt. There it was felt that the removal of tax receipts from the regions was completely insane. So did the Social Democrats back then. And then there were a large number of effects of the policy pursued, among others. Our service ceiling and the tax freeze on the municipalities, which today works in such a way that municipalities and regions are in a state of force and therefore have difficulty in fulfilling the tasks that we spent 5 hours talking about yesterday, together with among others the talented disability rapporteur from the SF, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk We analyse ourselves to the same conclusion about what the problem is, and then we run into the problem of the structure of lack of freedom in the municipalities and lack of economic freedom every time. Will SF be involved in a fight with the clamping force in which the municipalities are in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140627	Well, I have to say that the SF did not vote in favour of the structural reform when it was made, because we have just so many problems in it, among others. in the area of disability, where we could see that the specialised area was destroyed by taking it from the regions and putting it into the municipalities, because they should probably fix it. The problem is, of course, that some of these highly specialised tasks we need to work together across municipalities and regionally to solve. There are also some things that are well located in the municipalities. But the whole task was destroyed with structural reform. There we certainly have a duty to clean up, and I clearly sense that this is one of the discussions we need to have in the future. Then I must also say that one of the things that has happened during this period of government is that the free community attempt has been made and I look forward to hearing about the experience gained from it. I know that Langeland is one of the places where they have been given the opportunity to set it free in the area of the elderly. I hope we can get some learning from that, because the fact that we constantly believe that we can manage everything from Christiansborg in detail, I think is simply a mistake. I sometimes think that, if you release professionalism, if you release citizens and local politicians, you will find better solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140735	But we always say that from in here. It's a talk we've heard from all of us in, I don't know how many years, and it's only gone the wrong way. I mean, free communal experiments are all right, but it's still taken away from us. Perhaps we should set the local communities really free. I do not want to give the SF responsibility at all, I said it for taking responsibility for the structural reform itself. But that is why I am asking whether instead of adopting the positions that were actually at the time, the SF will help to resolve the structure in which system failures have proved to be an obstacle to the municipalities being able to carry out the task and ensure legal certainty for the disabled and for the mentally ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140818	I would not deny that this could be a good idea. I will not deny that. I'd like to take a look at it. What becomes important is that we ensure that there are rights; that we do not abandon the weakest in society by releasing the municipalities. Because there are some fundamental rights, for example. You need a helper if you're a person with disabilities and other things. There are some challenges there. But I'd like to take a look. I'm open to ideas, because the more we can create ownership out locally, the better I think it is. But I just want to say that I've heard this too many times. It is not new; we still have a challenge to find solutions. I just think this free community attempt could be one step on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140855	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602140859	Thank you. It is not worthy of a welfare society to send new parents home a few hours after a birth. I think that was the exact words of the rapporteur for the SF, and I fully agree with the rapporteur on that. That is also why we in the Left have presented our proposals in the field of birth, such as: must give birthrights to those who give birthrights to those who give birthrights to those who give birthrights to those who give birthrights to those who give birthrights to those who give birthrights to those who give birthrights to those who give birthrights to those who give We also focus on more free choice, birth preparation and a lot of other things. I can see that the SF has also made an excellent proposal in the field of birth. In fact, we have a majority against the government to act on this and call for negotiations before the summer break. For completely unsearchable reasons, the Enhedslisten did no more about this motion for a resolution. I can't be too sorry about that. However, would Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr not agree to join the Left and press the government to initiate some negotiations or, at least, at least some discussions here before the summer recess? For you and my party can at least agree that among other things... In terms of prenatal preparation, there is something to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141003	We'd be happy to work with the Left on this. I am so pleased that the Left agrees with the SF to grant more rights to the birthers, especially because the Left has been a government-leading party for a very many years, where welfare has been cut out out there and where the rights of birthers have been cut, and year after year have made our workers on maternity leave run fast and faster, and they do not have time for a toilet visit or a lunch break. These are horrible examples that we see from our birthplaces, and therefore people are also looking away. It was a senior medical doctor at the Rigshospitalet, who back in 2015, I think it was, or 2016, said he simply had to give up, because you had not only cut into the bone; you had cut into the marrow. I think it is a good thing that the Left declares that they have a responsibility for and now want to do away with, and we are happy to look at common solutions. We always like to do that in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141058	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141059	Thank you. Exactly the example that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr gives here is a class example of the fact that no matter how much money we give from in here, there can be regions around which the priorities are entirely, quite wrong. That example was from the Capital Region, and indeed they put the money in the wrong order. But I just have to ask, because the rapporteur talks a little woolly in his mouth, whether the rapporteur will go with the Left and the majority of parties in here and press the government to initiate negotiations or discussions so that these people can have the security they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141132	Well, we are open to pushing the government along with the Left; there should be no doubt about that. I don't know if it should be by summer. Well, maybe I could imagine that it could be on the other side of the summer break, and I'm not talking about forever. But we are willing to negotiate with the Left; there should be no doubt about that. We do that in many other places, and it is good that you become wiser along the way. It's about time. I think our birthing has earned it. And we are ready to use the majority required in committee. I don't think we quite have the majority as I remember it, but if we have the majority, we're ready and we're fresh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141204	Sir. Morten Dahlin, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141207	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for your speech. Part of the debate here today has been about the Commission on Performance and getting more people to contribute to the labour market, and that is a vision that I sense we share with the SF, namely that more people have to join the working community. But in the discussion we have forgotten the element of what working conditions we then offer to those who enter the labour market, and unfortunately we have heard some scary stories about people around Denmark, that is to say employees, who are being pressured to work under time pressure, unreasonable conditions and, frankly, also at a very low salary. Does the SF not agree with the Left that if we are to have more people contribute to the labour market, it also requires us to offer proper conditions and that we, for example, should be able to do so? no longer hear these unreasonable stories about people being forced to work for 20 kroner. In class? Doesn't the SF agree with the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141257	Yes, it sounds almost like SF's rapporteur Mr. Karsten Hønge would describe e.g. namely.com and their behaviour in relation to their employees, namely that of course we should not torment people on the Danish labour market and that we should therefore also provide proper wages. So if it is.com, sir. Morten Dahlin is after, or for that matter, the conditions for the forest workers or people who work in horticulture, where I know there is an example from Funen that they work for DKK 13. In class, SF is ready to look at it. I think people should be organized in trade unions so they can get a decent salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141334-2	In fact, I am a little puzzled because Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that you can't work for those around DKr 13. in class, but Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr supports tearing down the ceiling on cash benefits. If you tear down the ceiling on cash benefits, a father who has three children and is on cash benefits will only get about DKK 3,000. more a month by going to work, and if you convert it into a 37-hour week, it is a gain of just under 20 DKK. It's an hour. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr does not recognise that it is hypocritical that she is standing on the one hand saying that it is simply not okay and that you have to have something more in pay, and on the other hand, when it comes to cash aid recipients, it seems fine to say that when they have to work, they get a prize of less than DKK 20. In class?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141414	Well, it's so fascinating that the Left has deposited their economic thinking with the CEPOS, that is, and not even checked the calculations, because I still think that you have a certain duty as elected representatives, and when you look into the figures, you see that this is not what is the case with these families. We're talking about poor families. We don't talk about people who have a party and can do one thing or the other. We're talking about people with a very low level of performance. And yes, it pays to go to work in Denmark, but I am willing to look at different things that need to be done to increase the number of people who get into employment, because of course people want to work unless they are sick or have other challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141457	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141459	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech. It is no secret that the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party are very different in the field of foreigners, where we see that rejected foreigners after serving must on a plane and then out of Denmark. But there may be some places we can meet. It is of course a pity that the SF did not vote in favour of our law on the elderly in relation to minimum standards. We are very sorry about this in the Danish People's Party that SF could not support it. Now the SF is very concerned about the disability area at the moment, which is why I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr about it. There was a Supreme Court ruling here on 22 April, when the Supreme Court ruled that a citizen who has been mistreated in the social system and who has not received the benefit that the citizen should receive cannot receive an allowance, that is, once the municipality has made an unlawful decision, it can be even and free without compensating the citizen afterwards. What will Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr do to correct that? The Danish People's Party has made proposals in the Assembly Hall. What does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr want to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141617	I am pleased with the cooperation we actually have with the Danish People's Party on a great many points. This applies, among other things, to: In relation to the elderly, I had looked forward to Mrs Karina Adsbøl asking me about the elderly; it is usually such a firm little feature that we have in Parliament, in connection with the opening debate and the closing debate. We have good cooperation, for example. When we were going to make the Arne pension for the worn out. I think we are working well together on many points in the area of welfare. I hope we can do the same in the field of disability, because there are a great many people with disabilities here in Denmark who are experiencing their fundamental rights being violated. When, for example, the municipalities... I think it may be that I do not remember that it is 55%. of those who are successful in the Board of Appeal. It is, of course, deeply critical; it is deeply critical that we have municipalities that do not provide for their citizens properly. So we're happy to look at different options. We also have the requirement for ourselves to find funding for this. This means that we cannot just support all the resolutions that are in the Chamber. In fact, I believe that there have been, I believe, more than 100 now in the field of welfare, and that is also a challenge, because sometimes we have to prioritise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141732	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141733	After all, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr did not answer my question in relation to this particular Supreme Court ruling. We have a citizen who simply has not received the benefit that the citizen should receive, so he has not received the educational help and has not been able to train in relation to his swimming. You can even and freely break social legislation without having any consequences in relation to the person you are talking about. We have put forward proposals to compensate, of course, precisely for the motivation for the municipalities to make the right decisions, but also for the fact that they are not free to break the law and to ensure that people with disabilities receive the help they need. But the SF voted against, so they weren't in favour of this proposal, so what will the SF do about this? We could also say suspensive effect in cases. I need some action behind those nice words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141826	I am quite sure that our disability rapporteur has talked to the Minister about this. It's not the kind of stuff we're tucking in. And we kind of want to look at whether to make a fund compared to when people get hit by this. We are willing to do so by the SF. But the thing about going in and discussing personal compensation and resolving it in the Parliamentary Chamber is a bit of a bad thing, while we can discuss whether we should have a fund and then the injured person can subsequently seek the fund and get compensation or compensation. We think that is fair enough. However, if we are to deal with every case in here, I believe that it will only be the strongest of those who lose rights, who are given the opportunity to be heard, and not all of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141907	Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602141910	Thank you for your speech, among other things. some of the things that our parties have done together. I would like to look a little forward and look at what we could also do together, namely to act on the racism and discrimination that some of our fellow citizens with minority backgrounds encounter. Many of us have looked at the social media, how the examples of racism are coming forward, and there are also several colleagues in this room who have commented on a very specific video about a family being bullied on a trip to Kastrup Harbour. I've seen a lot of people be surprised. Of course, I was saddened that the family has had that experience, but not surprised at all, because stop it, where do I hear about many people who meet this, but without just being fast enough to film it. I also believe that the reason why this was met with our indignation and condemnation was that we saw what it really does to the children. What I would like to hear from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is: Does the SF Radical Left share the concern that, in relation to what our minority citizens are facing, we have a challenge and a problem? Could the SF, like the Radical Left, see itself backing a national action plan against racism and discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142029	I think we should generally look at this challenge. I shared the video myself because I was shaken into the soul. Like Samira Nawa, I'm not surprised either. Unfortunately, this problem is present in Danish society. This applies not only to people of other ethnic origin. This also applies to people with disabilities. This applies to people with a different sexual orientation who experience this, which is hate speech. I think that we have a common obligation to take it much more seriously than we do today. In fact, in my first draft of my speech, I had considered whether I should appeal that we in the Folketing actually take the lead and start to put the bar somewhat higher, because I believe that, as the leadership of this country, we can help influence people in a better direction. I am genuinely concerned that we will fail if we do not. Whether it is to be a plan of action or what it should be, I am open to discussing, and I am open to discussing various instruments. I'm just worried we're gonna do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142136	I am very pleased to hear that answer and also to hear that we, as elected representatives and leaders of the country, should take the lead. One thing that we could also do if it does not become a plan of action, which I think would otherwise be a good and long-term strategy, is to look at the legislation in force. It is, for example. so that, as a person with a minority background, because of his background and his ancestry, whether in employment, education or what he is, he helps to make a residential area a ghetto. That is why, in the Radical Left, we are outside the parallel society package and the ghetto legislation. There's SF in there, but wasn't this an obvious place to go and clean up the legislation to get rid of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142220-2	But it was, in fact, a criterion that was introduced while the Radical Left sat in government and helped to influence how to define those criteria. I would say that what is crucial to me when we talk about parallel societies, where we have to make a mix, is looking at many parameters, and for me it is therefore important that we take the discussion on, for example, one. bilingualism in e.g. our residential areas. It's because I'm preoccupied that everyone gets the opportunity for the good life, that we don't leave anyone on the platform. I do not think it is acceptable if we start to have special environments where you are not part of society and where social control is exercised. It is a longer debate which I am not allowed to take by the President of the Danish Parliament, but I think it is an important debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142300	You can decide for yourself whether to yell at your speeches, or if I just need a pen and hit the table, but you're stealing other people's time when you do. It's just that we have a back edge. I'm sorry, I'm spending my time on it. Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142319	Thank you. Denmark is an agricultural country, and perhaps unlike the Socialist People's Party, we in the Left are actually very proud of our Danish agriculture. We produce food that is sold all over the world, and then we also have one of the most climate-efficient farms. Therefore, we would like to develop Danish agriculture and not dismantle it. It is good for the climate if we have more Danish agriculture and not less. But I understand from SF that one would like to have less animal production in Denmark. I would therefore like to know whether the SF will be part of an agricultural agreement which we are negotiating right now, when animal production is not being reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142401-2	I don't think so. I think we will have to talk together about setting aside agricultural land. In fact, we have presented this together. Agriculture & Food has presented it together with the Danish Nature Conservation Association, where agricultural land is taken out, among other things. to climate, nature, biodiversity and the environment. So I really do not think that we are going to get to the point of that discussion, because area is related to animal husbandry in Denmark. So I do not quite understand the rapporteur. I agreed with everything the rapporteur said about being proud of Danish agriculture. I am extremely proud of Danish agriculture, and I think that Danish agriculture is one of the coolest in the world. I have been Minister for Trade and have travelled around the world and seen how they have admired Danish agriculture, and I do not even recognize the caricature that the rapporteur draws from the SF, but that is enough because the rapporteur does not know SF. So it may be that the rapporteur is going on a trip with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, for there is at least some indication that the rapporteur needs this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142456	Thank you. I am quite happy about that, in other words, if we share the same picture of Danish agriculture. What worries me then is that SF says that you want less animal production in Denmark, and that is where I should just understand: will you be part of an agricultural agreement where you do not reduce animal production in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142516	I just answered that question. I'm a little tired of getting the same question, but I shouldn't be irritated too. Actually, I was in a really good mood. But I always get annoyed when people tend to have to put prejudices on the SF. Maybe you'll grow it in Leftland. In SF we try to have an open mind for people. In fact, I think you want something good for agriculture. I think that we may have some different priorities when we discuss how much nitrogen they have to lead into our aquatic environment. I think it is important that we also have biodiversity in our streams and streams. I think it is important that we provide diversity and that we have climate and biodiversity. After all, this model has to go up and we will fight for it in the negotiations, so that we will also deliver on climate reductions of at least 8 million. a.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142600	I would therefore like to thank Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her very thorough answer. There's no more time. I would like to extend a warm welcome to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602142623	Do I belong in politics? I have asked myself that question several times, and I had actually come to the conclusion that I do not. But when my party needed me, I said yes because the leadership of a party is the ultimate opportunity to change everything that we think should be different and to make good ideas come true. The start was not for fun, but in the middle of the darkness there were also rays of light from people out there of course and from my own and those who are really close, but also from good colleagues: Mrs Pernille Skipper, who spontaneously stepped away from the cameras and simply gave me a hug because she could see that I needed that; Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, who during a long evening's discussions at the Prime Minister's Office encouraged me with stories from his first and rather hard time as a leader. And I'm really grateful for good colleagues like you. But you and I both know that politics is tough. At times it is actually almost inhuman for us who practice it, but also for all of you who are close. And I'm not saying it to whine. We politicians are privileged in several areas; some believe in too many. But I am saying this because I think we have a problem and because more and more people are saying the same thing. There's something wrong at Christiansborg. Since the 2019 elections alone, ten of these politicians have been on sick leave because of work. Stress is a social problem, and it also hits Christiansborg here. I'm worried when I see a good sir. Alex Vanopslagh takes both his party's survival and a stress disorder on his shoulders, and indeed also when I see the initiative of Mr. Tommy Ahlers drowned in endless spin processes. I'm thinking, we really need people like you, but are you gonna be okay? Because the pace is high, and the negotiations are many and we know that the meetings are endless. But how much can we actually say, when we look at ourselves, after 1 year in the service of the people's regime, that we have achieved? In which areas has Denmark become a significantly better place to live in the last year because of the policy we have driven from in here? So it's too few. I find this the most frustrating thing about the year that has passed, because we have shown together that we can save a country. Denmark has come through the corona crisis better than most other countries in the world. But when everyday life returned, what did we first begin to do about the fact that one in six children goes out of school without being able to read, write and count, that we have never been richer, but that our children may never have felt worse anyway, that our economy lacks people and that the climate lacks any action? No, the first thing we started was to discuss a Danish refugee camp in Rwanda which does not exist. It was an empty bill, which was not proposed or received with a view to reality, but with a view to the foreign policy profile. It was only Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard who dared to call the bluff. And is that how politics is supposed to work? Is that how we honestly want our democracy to be? Is this how we make talented and innovative people want to be with and more of them? Politics is on some stretches, and it is not just about a hard working environment, or that symbolism policy, I think, has for a long time pushed right solutions to real problems. It's bigger than that. There are politicians who change parties, there are new parties that turn up and some old ones that come back, but without giving us any more common answers to the major challenges we face. I'll fall in myself. It's hard to get out of the groove. There are questions to be answered and the meetings to be held and the social media to be looked after and clicks to be taken care of. All too often, however, false contradictions are cynically cultivated. These are forced choices between country or city, rule of law or public health, Dane or Muslim. And then I think that it is a senseless error where we do not have common sense, because it is both-and-so that is the answer; it is not either-or, because it does not solve our challenges. I also think that there are bright points. In fact, I think that the thorough and inclusive work done by the Service Commission gives hope. And sometimes Danish politics simply comes on a collision course so enormously with reality that reality wins. It's not often, but it happens. 14 Danish children in Syrian prison camps come home with the mothers who are Danish citizens, because it is Denmark's responsibility, and we all know it well. But in general, not right now, and not for a while, politics creates radical changes that free people to live radically better lives. What does that mean for Denmark? Yes, far along the way we stand still, and sometimes, or at worst, we are on the wrong track. I want to help change it, and I appeal to you because I think that a lot of us want to help change it. Of course we can change it if we do it together. What if we spent most of our time in politics helping all the children who are miserable and do not learn the basics of school? What a difference politics could make for the children it is about and for the society in which we spend billions to make things right later when we have got off the wrong foot. Despite good intentions, the school reform in 2013 was a mistake, at least in relation to the way it was carried out. We have not succeeded, and we must learn from this collectively. The school is our biggest welfare project in the 2020s. Imagine if politics allowed refugees, whom we have spent money on educating, to actually contribute to the community afterward as Sedra, who is studying to a doctor, and who wants to rebuild Syria, but when the one she fled from, the war criminal Assad, surely, is gone. Imagine if politics were to be made much more closely with the people it is about and not over their heads. In fact, I believe that open citizens' assemblies have much more future than closed one-party governments. It's not so freaked out again; it's actually the future. But, of course, this requires that we give priority to listening, and it also requires that we have time to come to the meetings where the citizens appear, and that has little to do with the working conditions I mentioned. What if we used policy to create enthusiasm for climate action everywhere in our society and made our consumption green together with agriculture, along with business. Then we could also eliminate the fear that children and young people are experiencing about the future, because they do not actually believe that action is being taken in time in relation to the climate crisis. So imagine if politics made sense to many more instead of removing it. Imagine if politics came together instead of splitting up. And imagine, if we actually dare to think basically new about what politics can and must be, also in terms of how we organize ourselves. Instead of holding people together, we could set people free. That, for me, is the aim of politics. I don't think it's actually too many of you. At any rate, I would like us to be able to gather together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602143612	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. The first to have a brief comment is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602143615	Thank you for a brave speech. I think that was a good speech and I very, very much agree with many of the things that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen has mentioned here. I also recognize that I think we can all feel that: Is this the right thing to do? Then I would like to quote a radical, blessed Niels Helveg Petersen, who said that politics is too important to leave to others. At least that's where I am, and as long as we can each see ourselves in the mirror in the morning and tell ourselves, it's probably the right thing to do. If you can't, you have to stay home. I have been able to read in Berlingske and we have discussed this earlier in the debate here... some exciting thoughts from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and from the Radical Left about economic reforms, about a willingness to increase the supply of work. I think that is important and I think it is wise for all of us to think in this direction. And I just want to hear whether it should be seen as a demand from the Radical Left that the Prime Minister and the government follow up these ideas and whether they are going to draw a consequence if not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602143726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602143727	Thank you for the question, and I know that time is short, but also thank you for the introduction. That is exactly what this is about: politics is too important and that is why we are here. But I also believe that some of the good old politicians would turn around in the entrance if they were confronted with some of the working conditions we have today. So we have to do something about this, as the representatives we are for everyone else, just as we have to do something about the lack of people and the economy, and that must be delivered on. The government has promised this, and I have no reason to believe that the government is not going to deliver, but the task is, in fact, greater than that of patching up the gap after the right to early retirement. The task is much greater in the years to come, so I really hope that we can meet broadly on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602143822	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602143823	Well, I can't wait for that. Now we talked earlier about a lunch, and it became a lot of invitations during the time I stood on the platform, and it will be great. From me, I just want to hear a desire to reach out to meet both with the Left, but at least Mrs Pernille Vermund before • also with several other blue parties, to see if this is not something we can discuss, if we cannot find a way to make the Danish economy stronger, if we cannot check whether we can find each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602143859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602143901	Thanks for the outstretched hand. That's exactly what I wanted. And that lunch can't wait very long, and anyone who wants to do that task must join in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602143915	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602143919	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It was an exciting speech, and there were many, I think, sensible points. It was such a bit of a workplace assessment, an apv that was made for the work of the Folketing, wasn't it? I had a bit of a feeling that, for God's sake, we should also tell the Danes that it is politics and that politics is also about sharing us by opinion. That's what a radical said once. Sharing by opinion also means that we not only sit in a circle and agree, but then we too gloomy in relation to the things we now believe in. At one point in the speech it was said that these were such false contradictions, and then there were among others. I have to say that, unfortunately, if you go out into the real world, you can find many examples of the fact that these are not false contradictions, that is to say that there is a very present difference between what it is for a society you want to develop, and that is why we have parallel societies in Denmark. That is why we have some things that we have tried to combat in relation to the developments in some of our urban areas. Can't Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144026	Yes, I can agree with that. There are plenty of specific problems. What I want is for us not to freeze each other, and this also applies to the Radical Left, in the trenches which then mean that we will not solve the specific problems. There are specific problems in some vulnerable residential areas. I am so inspired by what everyone is saying here about freedom and free municipalities. Imagine if we set aside residential areas and said that they should achieve the objectives of employment and education, that they had a number of years to do so, and that we should not regulate that it should be exactly in our polarising way, but that these objectives should be achieved. What if they did it? Couldn't that be amazing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144107	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144108	Yeah, that could be amazing. Sofie Carsten Nielsen So let's do it). But it is, of course, a discussion about which methods to choose. It is just to say that there is a difference between whether the Danes want the Radicals in power or they want the Danish People's Party in power. It's because you basically look at what kind of society we need to have what's the dream. So, we do not necessarily believe that it will be so good if it is the whole world together: globalisation, that it is a great thing in the European Union and that we wipe out the differences. We like the fact that there are some nation states and that there are some characteristics of being Danish in relation to being German, to being French and so on, and we know that if we get a large immigration from the Middle East, we will only have real problems. There the Radicals have always been a little, I think, foot-timing and reluctant to shut down in relation to the immigration that affects our country. So there's a reason we're two different parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144153	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144154	There is certainly a reason why we share our views, as Mr. Viggo Hørup said before he died and before Radical Left was created. So he was a good Leftman, but certainly radical in the heart, and I also regard Hørup as an ancestor in that way. But I think that the questioner proved perfectly well to be able to draw a false premise as to what the Radical Left stands for: that is the kind of thing where we wipe out all the differences, where everyone comes across all the borders at the same time and where we speak only one language. I cannot find that anywhere in Radical Left electoral programmes. It's a false premise. Shouldn't we identify the problems instead? Well, I actually think that, too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and I could find a lot of solutions if we really tightened up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144242	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144244	Thank you. A year ago, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten went out with a common demand to the government that we should have a Advertising Yes Thanks scheme in Denmark, so that we can get rid of this crazy paper waste, where 113,000 tonnes of advertisements are distributed to the Danes every year. At that time, when we were out of that demand, it was Ruben Kidde who was the rapporteur, but when we saw the other day that we had to deal with the proposal in the Parliamentary Chamber, where there was a new rapporteur on Mrs Kathrine On Saturday, the line of the Radical Left was suddenly another, because then suddenly there was no answer to whether you wanted a Advertising Yes Thanks scheme in Denmark, and even so, despite the fact that we have got the government to examine whether it could be done within the framework of EU law. That is why I would like to hear the Radical Left: if we are now allowed by EU law to introduce a Advertising Yes Thanks scheme in Denmark, will the Radical Left support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144341	Then we will clearly reconsider our approach, because in principle we agree that it must be reduced. Things have just happened that make it automatic. I really think it is an honest matter for a new rapporteur to be thoroughly involved in an area. It is not, of course, the case with the basic values that we have changed our approach; it is in relation to the concrete solutions. Now we would like to wait for that to happen at all and whether the problem is still the same today as it was years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144410	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144411	I think it is a pity that we were so ready before and that we are now so open. But I would really like to ask another question, since I now have the opportunity to do so too. In the SF and Enhedslisten and in the Alternative and in the Free Greens we will vote tomorrow for an offer of plant-based food in all public kitchens, but I hear that the Radical Left is going to vote blankly. Why is it that the Radical Left will not ensure that there is always an offer of plant-based food in public kitchens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144438-2	I do not remember the discussion in the group, but I can say on my own account that it is because we do not think that we should regulate our municipalities in detail. We would very much like to set them free to do so, and I would think that they can, if they wish, and then it is just doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144457	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144458	When we were negotiating the understanding paper a few years ago, it was very important for Enhedslisten and we contributed many pieces of text about it • that we should increase employment. We need to ensure that a larger proportion of the population becomes part of the workforce because too many people get sick because too many people get worn down because too many young people do not receive training and because too many public employees work part-time instead of full-time. There are a lot of things we can do to get more hands going. However, we were fiercely opposed to continuing inequality-building reforms. Now I see that the Radical Left is opening the ballet in the Berlingske Tidende: lower top tax, lower corporation tax, abolition of the early retirement tax, higher retirement age even faster, more foreign labour at lower wages. Instead of starting a war among the parliamentary foundations, should we not work together on the things we have already agreed on and which would actually be very good for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144604-2	We're working with those who want to, and I'd really like to do that with Mr. Knox. Rune Lund's party on everything that I agree with can also contribute. The reality is just going to hit us, and it requires that there are people in our economy; otherwise we cannot deliver what I am sure we agree on a sufficient number of educators, doctors and nurses to the public sector. And then it may be that we disagree that there should also be sufficient labour for the private sector, otherwise there will be no welfare in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144637	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144637-2	But what is interesting is that what I am talking about here is real employment, real jobs. What Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is talking about is an increase in the number of theoretical job vacancies in the Ministry of Finance's calculator. And we know what's beating it up. These are higher retirement age, a reduction in early retirement, the erosion of transfer income and a large number of reforms which mean that the sick and the unemployed and the worn out are being whipped around. If that is what the Radical Left really wants, then we must take that discussion again. I would just urge that we focus on what we actually agree on and on which there will be very good cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144715	Well, we're gonna focus on that, too, and everything else that we want to do. And that's not to reduce the benefits. We have no intention of doing so, and therefore there is no reason to chase that ghost around the Chamber, although I understand that that is where Enhedslisten comes from. We basically disagree on whether we have a challenge or not. That's really what I see most. The biggest challenge facing the Danish economy is the lack of people in the coming years to carry out the tasks that the private sector has and must deliver. Fortunately, many of them are green and the public sector has.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144755	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144757	Thanks for a good speech. I think that these were some very important points that were highlighted. It has to make sense, as the rapporteur said, and I very much agree with that. What we do must make sense, and sometimes, of course, we can have different views about what makes sense. Although I do not remember just now whether I have any radicals in my family at all, I still think that we should work together even if we should not shake hands with each other; we have immensely bad experiences with this in the Conservative People's Party. But I read Berlingske today, and I would just like to say thank you for raising this debate, because I think it is important that we take it up, even if the others with whom we are in coalition, if I may say so, scold you and are angry about it because it is a quite, quite necessary debate that we have to take here. I would like to say straight away that it is not the case that I am ready to adopt it, but I also understand from the rapporteurs that we can, in fact, sit down and ask where we find each other and see if there can be enough parties and enough mandates for it. So I'd like to sign for that in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144904	Thank you. Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144905	Well thank you very much, also for the good conversation in the Prime Minister's Office that late evening. It was actually really useful but also for the outstretched hand, which we then do not press properly, but which I consider to be so much an outstretched hand. The same applies from here. And as I also answered Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, I would like to say again that this lunch is urgent and let us get some concrete ideas on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144935	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602144937	What is the challenge when you need someone to eat something that is not so comfortable is that you cannot force-feed anyone. So how does the rapporteur see the possibility that we can land any of this? Well, I heard that the Prime Minister may today be starting to touch some reforms. I am not sure what is in it, but I shall certainly not reject anything until we have seen what is on the table. I just want to know if the rapporteur is ready for this. Well, are we ready to go all the way together if we can agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145004	Now they have some experience of forced feeding in France, and something can come of that too, but otherwise I agree with the rapporteur. And yes, it is a radical basic mantra that we work with those who want to, to solve the challenges that reality presents us, and it pushes on. So we go as far as it has to be in terms of what we can agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145028	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145031	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Historically, the Radical Left has been the royalists in Danish politics. The weight bowl has often been tongued to great frustration for many, among others. Mr Anker Jørgensen, the former Prime Minister of the Socialist Party, who in 1982 called the Radical Left some fling relief because one could not agree, and the Radical Left chose to change sides. But in 2019, when the Social Democracy formed government, they did not want the Radical Left with them. The political commentators have highlighted how the Radical Left has been sidetracked in Danish politics, but something has changed over the last few weeks, when Radical Left among others. has pushed the Social Democratic Prime Minister to bring IS terrorists and their children to Denmark. It may even be said that the Social Democrats have become the slingshops and that the Radical Left has become the king-masks again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145140	I think it was a so-called analysis. I waited and waited for the rapporteur to keep drawing it forward. But it's not something I'm so concerned about. In fact, I am concerned that it is the security of the kingdom of Denmark that has been assessed and that it has been assessed that it is best for Denmark that the Danish citizens are taken home. And in general Danish citizens are Denmark's responsibility. Danish children of Denmark's responsibility. I find it very difficult to see why it is not a very broad realization. It took me a long time to agree with that, but then that recognition spread, and we all know it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145234	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145236	Thank you for your answer. The other day we read in Politiken how many of the members of the radical hinterland appeal to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen to overthrow the government. Does the rapporteur see that pressure is being put on the government to make more concessions on, among other things. The immigration policy, so the government doesn't have to be overthrown? If so, can Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen give us a brief account of what kind of alien relief it could be? After the Prime Minister has shown that the majority of the government is more important than the promises made to the Danes, it seems that we now have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145315	I have repeated in several places what the priorities of the Radical Left are. For example: We simply find it so difficult to understand that Danish citizens who fall in love with a foreigner cannot be allowed to live in their own country when they support themselves one hundred percent. There are examples of people who have to live in another European country before they can be here in Denmark, and therefore cannot contribute with competences we have given them ourselves, even though the hundred percent support themselves. That doesn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145349	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145351	Thank you for that and thank you for a good speech, and also thank you for the personal greeting along the way that I received, although I was not just physically present. I'd like to sign for that. It was a speech that was thoughtful at all, and several interesting things were said, among others. This is about the fact that the reform of the primary school was a mistake. I would actually like to see whether we can perhaps reach an agreement on what the mistakes were. I believe that one of the things that our primary schools are suffering from is that it is misguided. It is guided by learning goals. It is guided by learning to learn rather than learning concrete skills and gaining concrete knowledge, and that it is important to have competences such as being innovative, adaptable and creative • that is what the Prime Minister called academic school methods • rather than focusing on what to say, the concrete knowledge and the specific skills. I would like to know whether this is something that the rapporteur has had some thoughts on and possibly agrees with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145443	Thank you for your question, and thank you for your cooperation, even recently, when Mr. Alex Vanopslagh has returned so much. It's really nice to see. Take care of yourself, you have to remember that. I'm sorry for the direct indictment, but it's a little hard to put it in other ways. I heard sir. Ole Birk Olesen said earlier in his questions that some of that we should have known, and we should probably have. But it is also very much about the way. I think we have to start in a completely different way and to a much greater extent set school free. Then things get different too, and that's good. So we need to set both the school and the municipalities free much more. We're in the middle of work. I'm pretty convinced that we have ideas that can match each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145544	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145546	We would also very much like schools to be set free, at least to decide for themselves how they teach and what they teach after, although of course there must be some kind of national curriculum or something like that, right? One suggestion that our former Minister for Education Merete Riisager had was that in each municipality there should be one school, a primary school, which had as free a framework as a free school. In this way one could experiment to set the primary school free, and if the other primary schools were to become envyed, it might be that one could spread it out that way. Could this not actually be a way to do this and a way to push the government now that Radicals have regained the courage to live?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145620	The courage to live has been there the whole time... don't worry. We have blood on our teeth so much in terms of moving on this agenda, but along with the ones it's about. That's why I don't want to put any idea on the school's head. And there is a deep recognition that whatever reforms you make, you cannot implement them without those who have to implement them. I think it's a funny and kind of a great idea. It also reminds us of some of what the SF has said in the past, but I think we owe it to the school to set it free in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145657	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145659	Thank you. It is obviously easier to agree with the Radical Left when you are not a member of the party. I would like to thank and thank Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday because she has just managed to breathe in relation to the yes-than-yeah advertising, which sounds so good. The problem is that it costs our regional and local media 250 million. kr., I find it hard to see them, at least I have not just experienced that it was very easy to find the money while I was working in the radical group room myself, and Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen knows all about that from the discussions we have had about it, and that is fair and square. But that is the consequence, if you just go into what sounds so right, and I fought with Ruben Kidde about that then, and then there was certainly not much sensitivity, but then Mrs Kathrine came on Wednesday and put in her sense, which I think is excellent, because we cannot afford to create any more news deserts out there. Then Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen will promise that before you say 'yes' to the 'yes' scheme, we will be able to find 250 million. kr. to our local and regional media?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145814	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145815	For this matter of promises, I do not have anything, but I would like to say that it is also part of the discussion we have had and the problems we think need to be resolved, otherwise it will only be very much more difficult for the whole country and indeed the local media, which are so important. That's exactly the discussion. And that is really enough with the thought that has taken place beyond that which is also very much in the way, namely that it may not be possible at all, so it was perhaps an idea to examine it first, and it will be now. But it is received and understood, and perhaps sometimes it is quite okay that we all give it some thought about the concrete solutions, and that there is also room to say that we have changed a little and have become wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145907	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145908	In any case, I am glad that I am no longer standing in the way of the thought that has apparently occurred since then, so it is all good for something. By the way, I thought it was a very interesting and excellent interview with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, I read in Berlingske, and it is not because I am so insanely surprised by the tax statements and things like that. However, this is positive because it is what must create our jobs and we would like to have more hands on the labour market. So we are in agreement on that. But let me just print it a little bit. What does Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen think happens with the Prime Minister when Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and the Radical Left go over and settle with the blue bloc on that policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145955	So that is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602145956	Well, I'm very willing to solve the big problems we're facing, and I'm not really willing to let me get locked up in anything. That is why we have to see what is happening, but I sense that there is openness to speak. The Prime Minister's speech was about the reforms that are needed and the challenges we face. I am actually more concerned about what we need to do with it, namely to ensure that we can lift the 20%. of our children and young people who have not been promised that we will be able to achieve the green transition, and that will then require that we have people to do it. But I'm completely open to how we find the majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150037	Thank you. The next one is sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150041	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and also thank you for the reports in Berlingske. That's really nice to hear. After all, the reports come on a backdrop, namely that the Radical Left has appointed a government for the last two years that has made Denmark and the Danes poorer. It has actually been the hardest hit on those with the lowest incomes. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the announcement from Berlingske today should be understood in such a way that it is not the end of legitimising a policy that makes Denmark and the Danes poorer, and whether radicals are therefore no longer the support party to the government if they continue the course they have set so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150118	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150119	We ourselves have taken part in the financial laws to which we have voted and agree with those things. We do not have such a dogmatic relationship with the economy and, for example, taxes. Charges are also an instrument for promoting green conversion and changing behaviour, and then you can get out of them. That's part of the CO2 for example. It's to promote green conversion, and it's not exactly with the aim of obtaining revenue. On the contrary, we want behaviour to change, so we have reduced CO2 It is a little the same here, and that is why I sometimes think it is slightly simplified. We're following what we think is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150204	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150205	Well, I'm disappointed to hear that. I understand it as if the Radical Left can still put votes to a policy that, overall, makes Denmark poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150217	No, the rapporteur must understand that we are not bound by a rigid tax freeze, which means that we cannot move anywhere when we want to promote the green transition and bring the companies that are drawing in that direction, for example with a CO2 but it is also the case that we are deeply concerned about getting the people for the future that is needed. And the future starts tomorrow, and it is both educators, teachers and nurses and the whole private labour market, and it will require some reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150248	Thank you. Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150251	Thank you. Then I can follow up on where my good colleague Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson escaped, namely in relation to whether it is just another report on the newspaper front pages, or whether the message coming today from the radical leader is something we can expect to be followed by action. Because if we look at, among other things... the taxes and charges imposed on both Danes as a whole and Danish companies under the current Social Democratic Government, it can be said that this has taken the wrong direction. This has reduced our growth potential and our development power among our private business. If we look at the initiatives that have been taken, we can see that they have reduced our employment rate and dragged people out of the labour market. Therefore, I would just like to ask the radical leader, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, whether we can expect the Radical Left this time to stand with the Left and good bourgeois, liberal parties, who actually insist that it should be worthwhile to work, that we should have created a greater job offer in Denmark, and that we should create better framework conditions for our companies, so that we can afford welfare in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150400	I am proud that there has been investment in education and research, that the ceiling on education was abolished and that there is no reduction in the areas on which Danish companies must make a significant living in the future. I am disappointed that new green harvesters are being set up for education. Well, that's what we're gonna have to negotiate. I hope the Left will not vote on that, because that is what it takes to move forward. And that is why I am not too sorry that we have spent that money on education, on educators and on more and more skilled teachers, but I am deeply concerned that we are getting that labour and I am fully willing to make the agreements for which we can find 90 mandates and with which we also agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150443	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150445	All due respect for that. After all, I did not ask about the investment in education that we have also supported, nor about the fact that we can get more educators out to our children and young people. I actually asked more specifically whether we can count on the announcement on the front page of Berlingske today, so that it is also followed by action, or whether it is just words. Because for the Danish entrepreneurial companies that cannot get capital, it doesn't help anything. For the companies that are facing a change of generation, it does not help anything. For those companies that need to secure reforms that also provide them with labour, that does nothing. That is why I just want to know whether the Radical Left is going to support, for example. a higher amount so that we can get more skilled labour into Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150529	A lower limit? Yes, we will support that as soon as there are 90 mandates for it, just as we will support providing more hands and smart heads for our labour market in the future, if these are initiatives that we naturally agree with. Then there are a number of other elements that are of course about priorities and where we have actually prioritised some taxes that we think are reasonable in order also to be able to invest in exactly what is needed in future Denmark. And we may then have political disagreements about that, but in terms of providing the labour force we are basically entirely in agreement, and lower limits could be some of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150605	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150607	Thank you to the rapporteur for a fine speech here today. What I want to ask is not so much about that speech, but about the year that has passed and some reports that came from the Radical Left in the Chamber yesterday actually. The Radical Left made that position and the demand, one can say that those who cannot have Danish citizenship because they have committed crime must have an apology for the Danish population, and there I would just like to hear whether it really is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's view and the Radical Left's view that those who cannot have Danish citizenship because they have committed crime must have an apology from the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150656	I was not present in the Parliamentary Chamber yesterday, which is why it is a little bit difficult to comment on Mr Beazley's report. Peter Skaarup's interpretation of a debate that I have not heard. I think, and we in the Radical Left think, that some of the extremely specific things contained in the new agreement on citizenship, which has retroactive effect, are fundamentally contrary to what we regard as a constitutional state. So that's where we disagree. In relation to the specific point, I cannot answer that, because I have to hear what has been said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150733	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150734	I actually thought that the Radicals were discussing positions and positions expressed in the Assembly, at group meetings, as we do in the other parties. We hold good and long group meetings around the party groups in order to assess it precisely, which is why I do not really think it is too much to ask that the Radicals here today, when we have a final debate that picks up everything, can answer whether it is really true that an apology is being demanded from the Folketing to those who cannot obtain Danish citizenship. One has to say that if you do crime, you have a little to do with it, but then you still require Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150816	Yes, but I really think it is a little much to ask that I should comment on a specific quotation from a debate in yesterday's Parliament when I now express my opinion on the agreement on citizenship and the general conditions. I'm not going to go around throwing out excuses, but I think it's appropriate in a whole range of contexts, but I'm not sure if it's this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150843	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150846	Thank you. And thank you for a very nice speech. I am very pleased with the cooperation we have with the Radical Left when it comes to education, research and ensuring good education for everyone in Denmark. I am also very pleased that the Radical Left would like to contribute to education throughout the country. What I would like to ask is the student's finances. The students have in recent years become more and more difficult to get the su to strike. They spend the vast majority of the su on rent, and so it's hard to afford other bills, food, study books, and whatever else it takes, without taking a loan or working next to their full-time studies. But that is another reason why it is difficult to get the su to strike and keep up with the rent increases, and that is that the su has not been allowed to follow the wage developments since 2013. That is why I would like to know whether the Radical Left is ready for us, of course, to follow the wage trend from the turn of the year, where that agreement runs out and where it is intended to do so, or whether the Radical Left is planning to spend that money on something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602150952	Now, unfortunately, we are not sitting on the Treasury and can decide entirely alone how we spend the money, but it is the radical position that the fact that the sugar and other transfer incomes follow inflation is sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151009	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151010	Okay, so Radicals won't be part of the su's having to follow the salary development from 2022, as we've agreed otherwise in the Su's circle. Could Radicals imagine that we would have to look at su-loans to ensure that the interest rate is not so high on the su-loan, since students will have to raise so much more su-loans than they have had to in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151033	We are, of course, following the agreements that have been made until they are changed, so the rapporteur cannot conclude that. However, I have now said quite frankly and openly that the radical position with regard to transfer services is that it follows inflation. As far as su loans are concerned, it sounds interesting. We'd like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151055	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151058	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen for her speech. Like several of my colleagues in this House, I have read the interview with the radical party leader in Berlingske and have read some messages about the need to bring more citizens into the working community, to create some growth, to create some momentum, to make long-term sensible reforms, to give the green transition and the development of the welfare society some good conditions, among other things. by giving some more elbow space to our skilled entrepreneurs, perhaps particularly skilled green entrepreneurs. And I thought it was a really good interview. I would just like to ask Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen: does the Radical Left really believe that the Prime Minister who has pursued the opposite policy than that advocated by Radicals in Berlingske is the right Prime Minister to make the vision of Radicals in Berlingske come true?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151154	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151155	I am impressed by the hands that are stretched out here, and I look forward to seeing more of them. It's been slashing them a bit over the past year from Mr. Morten Dahlin and, by the way, his party leader. But I can't wait for them to advance further. In any case, it is an urgent challenge here that we address the reality that is out there, namely that now companies are facing a shortage of labour, and we cannot get the hands and heads that are needed in the public sector either. And if we are not to get into a fight with each other, we simply have to get them. It is now and here, and I expect the government to act on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151238	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151240	I agree with what Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen has just said. But I would like an answer to the question. Does the Radical Left believe that the Prime Minister who is sitting now is the right Prime Minister to resolve the urgent problem raised by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151258	Well, I would like to make it clear that I understand that the Prime Minister is going to act on it. I have been assured that action will be taken, and we could also hear that in the Prime Minister's speech here. But it is clear that the longer time that passes and no action is taken, the greater the challenge becomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151320	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151323	Thank you for that and thank you for the speech which I thought had very many fine elements. However, something that I a little miss in the speech is about the great disaster that is in our alien law, which is called Section 7, 3, which means that there are more than 500 Syrians who are now being sent back to the Assad regime, and some of them are actually sitting out in the Palace Square. It was the case, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, that the Radical Left voted in favour of that amendment, despite the fact that you were warned not only by the Enhedslisten, but also by the Institute for Human Rights and by the Danish Refugee Aid. We simply predicted that this situation would happen and that people will now be sent back to some very uncertain conditions. Therefore, I would like to hear from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen: what can we now do to correct the huge mistake that the Radical Left made in 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151421	That is true; we in the Radical Left did not imagine that it could happen that these Syrians were not sent out, because they are actually sent to the exit centre because they cannot be sent back to Assad, with whom the government, fortunately, will not cooperate. And it is at least as disastrous that, when you are in education and maybe even at work, you just have to sit there. So we fully agree with Mrs Rosa Lund that this was a mistake. We had not imagined that it would be interpreted in this way. Where we may disagree is that we are not in fact opposed to the temporary nature of a law, but we simply did not imagine it being possible to say that they should be sent back to a war criminal with whom we do not want to cooperate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151518	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151519	But then maybe you just didn't listen then, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. For exactly that situation you were warned about. If you go back and look at the debate, you can see Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten in her rapporteur's speech warning exactly about the situation that these Syrians, that is, real people, are in now. You can see it when you read the hearing answers from the Institute for Human Rights and from Danish Refugee Aid. So I am surprised that the Radical Left had not imagined that this would happen when it was so strongly warned against it. I think we have good cooperation with the Radical Left in the area of foreigners in particular, and perhaps that is why it is so painful that it is the Radical Left who is responsible for the return of some people to the Assad regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151606	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151607	Yes, we have a responsibility for sending them to an exit centre. That is why we take responsibility for trying to rectify it if we can get those mandates at all. We must continue to work for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151622	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151624	Thank you for a fine and courageous speech, and thank you for the courage that is also reflected in the thoughts of Berlingske. And I would also like to thank you for putting an end to the de facto ban on providers of social housing services, as they did, and for preventing the switching rate being lowered, which was also at stake. These are good impressions which have been made in the Radical Left. I can be so annoyed that you didn't have the courage to quit when you had to make an agreement in relation to our day offer. We know that by 2030 we will have 18%. In other words, there has now been a ban on starting up new private institutions in which profits are drawn out, and I find it quite fundamentally difficult to understand that the Radical Left is backing this up, just as a ban has been put in place on the withdrawal of current private day-off offers. What are the thoughts behind the radical left backing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151729	Thank you for your first remarks. I am actually very, very pleased that we are securing that agreement in the social field in relation to the institutions there. We are against banning private day-to-day offers, and we also rejected it when it came to the negotiations. It is very important for us that the many good private institutions, the self-serving institutions, should not get into a mess. So what we reached a compromise on was to ensure a free choice for the individual institution in relation to whether or not to transfer to private, self-serving or not, and then we also secured that the funds from the minimum standards went to the private institutions. That was absolutely crucial for us, and that was the compromise that we reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151821	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151822	Well, I fully understand that politics is about compromises, and we must extend them. But I think you've gone too far in this case. The other day, I read about Anne and Per, who have the natural children's garden Mulvarpen in Ry, and they have, for example, drawn 106,000 DKK. in surplus in 2018, and it was money that had to go to compensate for their salary. They have simply paid a lower salary to themselves than they would otherwise have on a wage basis. They need to save up in case of illness that needs to be saved up for a playground or other. It's the parents themselves who have chosen to have their children in this offer. Shouldn't parents also have that freedom forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151858	Well, what was important to us was that it did not come to a ban on private day-to-day offers and that the self-serving can continue, and it was so really, very important to us that the funds from the minimum standards also went to the private institutions. We have fought for this, and these are the sort of compromises that we have to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151919	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602151922	Thank you. Like many of the others, I would also like to thank you for the article in Berlingske today. I think it is nice that there are some who dare to start to shed light on the reform measures that should preferably come. Some of what I would like to ask a little more about is mentioned in the article, and it says among other things. as heading: We will make extensive changes to the tax. And then it says that the Radical Left wants to reduce the interest rate allowance for the homeowners. I would really like to hear a little more about what the radical idea is about that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152005	Yeah, I'd love to. I think other rapporteurs actually interfered in the debate in the past with that of the Radical Left. Our proposal, by the way, is also called upon by the National Bank and others, slowly to step up the interest rate allowance, so that a small damper is put on here and because we think it is the most obvious. The housing market is the most unbalanced in our economy, and we think it is much more obvious to give relief to what we would like more, namely work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152040	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152041	Thank you. What I would perhaps like to hear the rapporteur of the Radical Left say a little more about is how we can prevent some kind of distortion from happening in some way. It is clear that many Danes have thought the interest allowance into their daily economy to make things work together, and we know very well that there are large differences in house prices around the country, so how will we ensure that there is no distortion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152116	It is, of course, those who are most concerned about the interest allowance, and it is clear that no one can think of it. That is why we have to make a very gradual reduction in the interest rate allowance so that it does not just hit from one day to the next. Of course. On the other hand, it is the calls of several, among others. The National Bank, this is what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152141	Thank you. Then we'll get to the last question. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152145	There are different divisions across the Parliamentary Chamber, and one of the very important divisions is, I think, is that one has the side where you have the Red Parties, the Enhedslisten, the SF and, to a large extent, the Social Democracy, and they think that it is best not to change too much in the welfare society, and the only thing that can be changed is that you can pour in some more money in places where you already spend a lot of money. Then there is the other side with the blue parties, the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and also the New Citizens who say that we can change some things because we can make a bigger cake out of what can make society better. There I think the Radical Left is often in the Blue Reform Alliance, and that is also what the big interview in the Berlingske Tidende today suggests, namely that the Radical Left is there as a reform party. Then the question is: why will the Radical Left always form a parliamentary alliance with the Red Reformed Parties instead of forming an alliance with the Reformed Blue Parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152250	I do not think I have called for anything other than alliances across the famous centre here and very much along with the blue parties for what we can agree on in order to bring about that change. Because there is nothing as boring as a standstill, because we can't use that for anything, and it's not going to help the 20%. of our children and young people, who now, I do not know in what year, still do not get a primary school where they can read, write and count. We have social mobility at the same level as the United States. So I share that mission, but I may be somewhere else sometimes, and we are therefore a social liberal party, because there has also been a real need, for example, to reinvest in education. It was a little too much just the green harvester when the Blue Government was in power and no better and more education was created as needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152348	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152350	I think that the blue parties and the Radical Left could agree on an educational policy which would also satisfy the Radical Left. We have had some disagreements in the past, but we may be heading for the same thing. So it is because with reform policy and the reform alliance that one could create, it is not so high on the part of the Radical Left that one continues to say: No, we should rather cooperate with the Enhedslisten to pursue economic policy in Denmark? Because there will be no reforms from that. The only reform that comes out of working with Enhedslisten is that some more money is spent in places where a great deal of money is already spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152426	Well, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, let us sit down and outline how much we can agree on. That would be refreshing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152434	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. The time has passed, and so is the series of brief remarks, so thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next is Mrs. Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602152506	On Saturday, two years have passed since the parliamentary elections. I remember the day clearly. It was frying hot, streets and straits were filled with people walking around with sunglasses and sandals and eating ice cream. I was optimistic, because it suggested that there would be a new majority in Denmark and that, fortunately, there was. It was not just a new majority; it was also a new direction. Two years ago, climate policy was almost nothing but something that the so-called left-wing climate freaks cared about. The government of that time thought that they had taken the climate crisis seriously by putting on green ties at press meetings and checking the weather forecast every now and then. They made an agricultural package that poisoned our aquatic environment. The former Minister for the Environment even said that a cereal field was to be described as nature, and then it is no matter to resolve the natural crisis. A lot has happened in the last two years. We have created a large biodiversity package and have been given a historic climate law. We have made a sea of agreements that make the green road easier and which ensure millions of tonnes of CO2 It is not only in the climate and nature area that we can see that we have gone in a new direction. The previous government cut billions on our welfare, our educations seemed corny, and welfare cuts were tried to camouflage with strange words such as re-priority contributions and productivity requirements. But out there, where it hit, in education, in maternity and in hospitals, it was clear what it really was: billions of cuts year after year. Now we go another way with more money for psychiatry, a thousand new employees in the care of the elderly, free psychological assistance for young people and help with dental care for those at risk. We have taken the first steps towards minimum standards, said goodbye to the education ceiling and finally strengthened our schools and education. Incidentally, the previous government was not afraid to celebrate itself. There were 21 cups on former Secretary of State Anders Samuelsen's tribute, one for every billion-dollar tax rebate that had been given primarily to those who had the largest purse, the largest car or the largest private aircraft. The cake fork was also discovered when 50 times had been made up to make life harder for foreigners and people on the run. Although I do not think there is much to shout about with this government's foreign policy, I think it is gratifying that we have brought the children out of Zealand, quota refugees to Denmark, and that after all there are now some children and their mothers coming home from camps in Syria. All we need now is the rest. So there has been progress, but come on, how much still needs to be done. Around us butterflies, bees, frogs, flowers, and bird species disappear forever. We are in the process of destroying the basis of living for a great many species with a spooky haste and robbing nature from future generations. Why is that? In Denmark, we have been extremely skilled at recovering virtually every square kilometer of our country, almost every field has been cultivated to the limit. We pull chips and lumber out of virtually every piece of forest, almost all sea areas are trampled through, and the vast majority of our watercourses are artificially straightened out or laid in reeds. On a scale of how talented we are to squeeze as much grain and bacon as possible out of the square meters we have, we clearly get a first place in Denmark. But the first place comes with a price, namely with a nature that is of torn out, and a climate account that has a large, large overdraft. The climate crisis we are facing will have consequences already for the next generation. Those children who today are wandering around the playground with sunscreen and summer hats will experience a changed world with devastating floods, droughts, famines and climate refugees in millions. But we can choose another way where our production, transport and energy are sustainable, where there is cleaner drinking water, cleaner air, less poison in food and more forest and nature. Action is urgent. That is why I am worried right now that the agricultural negotiations seem almost to have stalled. Agriculture has a key role to play in reducing Denmark's climate impact. Agriculture, as one of the only industries, can absorb CO2 which we must exploit. In Enhedslisten we propose to convert an agricultural area the size of Funen and Bornholm into grass, forest and natural areas. Out here behind me in the Palace Square there is a group of people with Syrian background. Every day they appear under white pavilions with hand painted signs where it says: Syria is not safe. Syria is not certain, so simple is their call to us politicians, for a large majority in here has unfortunately decided that people with life as an effort should be sent back to the war-torn country of Syria; that Denmark should send people back to Assad's dictatorship, and when they cannot be sent out, they are parked at the exit center indefinitely for a hopeless future. I think it is both headless and heartless, so I would like to make a call here today to those of you who sit on this side of the walls and have voted to send people back to fragile and insecure conditions: it is your responsibility if people are sent back into the arms of a dictator with their lives as an effort; you have the power to do something about these people's enormous fears and concerns; you have the opportunity to act, and you should do so immediately. Right now, as a society, we are faced with a choice that will define which country we want to be, because in Denmark anno 2021 it is unfortunately the case that thousands of children live in poverty, where children's birthdays and camp trips are something that causes concern and not enthusiasm, because you cannot afford the same thing as comrades, where parents do not buy their medicine or a new bike if the old one has been stolen, because then they cannot afford to give the children proper winter boots. Now the Government's Service Commission has come forward with its report, and if the recommendations are implemented tomorrow, then there will be as many poor children in Denmark as there are today, because the starting point has been that not a single penny should be added to the benefit system, and therefore the Commission's recommendations simply do not solve the problems. We cannot be aware of this when we know how hard poverty affects children in particular. In addition, the recommendations draw direct money out of the pockets of mentally vulnerable young people and the long-term unemployed. To be honest, this is not good enough at all. We must eliminate poverty, not redistribute it. Now we have to start negotiations, and the right has clearly declared that they will not be involved in raising benefits for those who have the least. On the contrary, they will make them even lower. It's putting the government in front of an election. It can make an agreement with the right, which throws even more children into poverty, or make an agreement with us that helps people to a better life. I have to admit that I simply do not understand that it is at all under discussion, and it provokes me almost when the government, headed by the Prime Minister of the children, says that it is not a prestige project or a bottom-up task to do something about the benefits. If, as a Social Democrat, you cannot swing up to spend your time in government offices to help the poorest in our society, why are you there at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153442	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen. The first brief remark is from Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153447	Thank you very much for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I also often think back to the good old days before 5 June 2019, when in many areas Denmark was a better place. Finally, the rapporteur mentions this point with the recommendations of the Service Commission, and the rapporteur has also been out to say: 'In the end, if and when things go wrong and they are moving in the wrong direction, it can of course end with a motion of censure, but I hope that that is not where we are going. ▪ The latter we look at so little differently. So I just have to ask you this in more concrete terms, because a bit of the veil is being lifted here at the end of the rapporteur's speech, but yet not: how much is it that we are talking about? How much does the rapporteur think that a married couple without children who are on integration benefit today should have in total disposable income in order for Enhedslisten to support such a move?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153547	After all, it is no secret that we in the Enhedslist were extremely opposed to the poverty benefits introduced by the previous government and its parliamentary basis. It is the integration benefit, it is the ceiling on cash benefits, and that is the 225-hour rule. That is why I think it is very good that we should create a new performance system. In the Enhedslisten, we do not believe that putting people into poverty will help them to get a decent job. We want people to get to work, but I simply do not believe that poverty creation is what leads there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153621	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153622	I understand that already from the rapporteur's speech. But poverty is all about more than economics. Poverty is about the absence of the ability or ability to influence its own situation. The very best thing you can do there is get a job. It's the very best hand we can give. That is why I would like to repeat my question: I think it drowned a little earlier: how much does the rapporteur think a couple without children who are on integration benefit today should have in total disposable income if Enhedslisten is to be able to see themselves in an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153701	In fact, I will save the negotiations to the negotiating room, and I look forward to them very much, because something really needs to happen. I would also like to say that I fully agree with the President of the Left that we must do everything we can to help people get to work. I think it is such a curious bourgeois logic that you have where you think that rich people are motivated to work more by getting more money and that poor people are motivated to work by getting less money. I think that's funny.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153731	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153734	Thank you to the rapporteur, Mrs Mai Villadsen, for her speech. On January 1, 2010, the Somali Mohammed Geele attacked the magazine artist Kurt Vestergaard with an axe in his home in Aarhus, and only because Kurt Vestergaard had had a room in the house where he could go in and close the door, and which was secured by attack, he survived. Otherwise, you have to assume he was murdered. Mohammed Geele was subsequently sentenced in Vestre Landsret, which was confirmed in the Supreme Court, to 10 years in prison and expulsion from Denmark. It was in 2011. At the end of 2019, i.e. a year and a half ago, Mohammed Geele was released and is now free to wander around Danish society, even though this Somali has been expelled because of this terrorist act. Does Enhedslisten think that's fair? We are usually far apart from each other in foreign policy, but it could be that here we could find some common understanding that this is simply not fair to the Danes and not at all to Kurt Vestergaard. And if Enhedslisten doesn't think that's fair, what should be done about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153841	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153843	I had actually told myself that I would not go into individual cases when I was standing here, but it is, of course, absolutely horrible and horrible what was done. I must also say that our courts judge as they do, and I will let them do so. And when they think that that man can be at large well enough at an exit center, that must be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153906	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153907	But it is not the Danish courts who have assessed it. After all, the Danish courts have said that the Somali must be expelled from Denmark. That is what the courts have said. Then we have some international conventions which, as they are practiced, prevent us from expelling the man, and in the meantime he can walk freely among the Danes. So I just ask as chairman of the Danish People's Party: does the Enhedslisten not think, as I do, that it is completely grotesque? He's one of these 130 people we're talking about in connection with Kærshovedgård. Doesn't Enhedslisten think it's grotesque that we offer the neighbors, the law-abiding Danes, that they can get fences around their house to be at peace for a type like him here, instead of him being locked up until he wants to be deported?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153950	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602153951	What I honestly think is grotesque is that there are parties in Denmark that do not think we should live up to international conventions. Of course we think so in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154004	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154006	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very good speech and, in essence, a very important point about how much climate policy has moved. It was a bottom-black government that Denmark had before the parliamentary elections 2019. Thanks for pulling that line so clearly. There is no doubt that the rapporteur is passionate about the climate struggle. In the SF we have been part of the tax agreement on green tax reform. The rapporteur called it a failure of dimensions and a pickle jar when we raised taxes on black fuels and set up a group of experts to produce a uniform CO2 That is why I would like to hear: although the rapporteur has given the agreement these perhaps slightly colourful words on the road, will the rapporteur still here after the summer recess, where the expert group will actually make recommendations for the architecture behind a high uniform CO2 2 Is the rapporteur ready to go into that work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154112	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154113	First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Signe Munk from the SF: thank you very much for a very good cooperation in the area of climate change. We are, of course, ready to enter into negotiations on a CO2 I almost think we were some of the first to propose it with our old climate plan several years ago. That is why, of course, we are ready to go to the negotiating table, I just think it is too late. That is why we were outside the agreement, both because of it, but also because some tax rebates were granted to companies without tying them to green solutions. I thought that was a mistake. However, we are very much looking forward to the negotiations, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154150	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154151	The key point is to find the 90 mandates, as the rapporteur knows as well as I do. Another matter that is important from the SF's point of view is the introduction of an air toll, and we must also have found 90 seats. Enhedslisten (Enhedslisten) would be ready to introduce an air tax in Denmark • DKK 60. on domestic travel and up to 400 if you're going all the way to the United States? And then I would just like to say frankly that it is not all that needs to be brought back in relation to social compensation. One could, for example: Just add 200 kroner. in the green check and then use the rest of the revenue from an aircraft tax to invest in the green conversion. It could be cheaper night train tickets or something. Will the Enhedslisten be ready to take that fight with the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154227	It will not be Enhedslisten that stands in the way of introducing an air tax in Denmark. I fear that is the Socialist Government, which is still stuck in the brake. We have also proposed an air tax based on a model where you have to pay more, the longer you fly and the class by which you fly. So we have some similar thoughts there, and I really hope we can get that done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154255	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154258	Thank you. In fact, I would very much like to ask the Enhedslisten rapporteur the same question that I put to the SF, and then I can cross my fingers to get a slightly clearer answer from the Enhedslisten. I think there are a lot of students who want to cross their fingers for that too. I would like to know if Enhedslisten supports the Government's wishes and plans to close every tenth training place in Aarhus, Copenhagen, Odense, Aalborg and actually also at RUC. So I hope the rapporteur will respond to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154333	I would like to begin by thanking Radicals for their cooperation in the field of education, where we have really, I think, moved a great deal over the last two years. In terms of creating more education around the country, I fully agree with the intention of the government, at least in relation to the need to create more education around it. I myself come from a small town in central and west Jutland, and the first thing I did when I was 18 years old was to pack the bag and go to Copenhagen. My sister stayed in town, had a boyfriend, a child, and read what wasn't quite the neighborhood, because she had to drive quite a long way to get an education. So I would just like to say that it is extremely important that we ensure that education is available throughout our country because there are so many young people who are lost in that account and who simply end up not getting an education. So it's important. In relation to the concrete model, we need to negotiate it. I clearly have some concerns about the big cities, and I hope that we and the Radicals can do something together. But something has to happen in relation to the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154434	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154436	After all, it is wonderful that we share the ambition to create more educational places and create more opportunities for people to fulfil their dreams throughout Denmark. We really, really want to be involved in this in the Radical Left. But I just have to understand: can the Enhedslisten refuse to close one in ten places of education in the big cities? At the same time, I would also like to hear about something else, and I hope we can agree on that too, namely that funding must of course follow if we want to create new training opportunities. Because we must ensure the quality of our education, no matter where they are in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154513	I think one of the reasons why it has sometimes been a little difficult to get people to take those courses around has been that it may have become a little bit somebody understand me rather about discount courses that have been set up. That is why we simply need money. There is no doubt about that at all. But I'm worried about the funding. There's money coming from youth education. I mean, there's a lot in this proposal that can make me a little uneasy in my stomach, and we need to spend a lot of effort inside the negotiating room to ensure small subjects and to ensure professional environments and education, including in cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154545	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154548	Thank you for a fine speech and congratulations on being at the forefront of the Enhedslisten; that is what the rapporteur is doing very well. Despite our obvious disagreements on many points, we actually also have a few areas where we agree on something: the fight against fraud involving the refund of dividends tax, and we also have the joint battle over a land fund to fund low-level land, etc. But these agricultural negotiations are not going so well; we are going to the meeting no. 40 this week, and then everyone can figure out that it probably takes a tiny bit out, and it draws a little bit on someone's both temper and perhaps also patience, at least a little from here. Could it be imagined that it is because there are some parties that would rather wind up than develop the farms, and could it be imagined that Enhedslisten would like to be involved in developing agriculture and making it green, also in relation to animal products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154644	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154645	In the Enhedslisten, we very, very much want to develop agriculture, and I do not think I am actually wrong when I say that we are the party in the Folketing with the most farmers. We have two out of 13 in our parliamentary group, so we are extremely concerned about developing agriculture. I fully agree with the rapporteur that the negotiations are going a little slow and I myself have been involved in a few of them, and I think we should almost get credit for agricultural training by sitting so many rigid hours in that negotiating room. So couldn't we have a continuing training plan there for a part of us? I would also like to thank Mrs Juul for her cooperation. I was really, really happy when I saw the newspaper cover this morning and could see that we in the Enhedslisten and in Conservatives stand together to propose that there should be a land fund so that we can get much more land purchased.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154742	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154743	Thank you, and although our entrances to it may be somewhat different, it is always good to find some meeting places. Another area in which I think that Enhedslisten and Conservatives sometimes have a common meeting place is about the self-employed, at least the Enhedslisten will often want to do something for the less self-employed. Nevertheless, I think it has been somewhat tricky both in relation to corona compensation and, most recently, in relation to our motion for a resolution on the equal treatment of self-employed people and entrepreneurs with workers in the field of unemployment benefits. Why is it that Enhedslisten doesn't get bitten to fuck exactly in relation to the self-employed, so we get some decent terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154819	Well, my experience is that we actually have a really strong cooperation about small and medium-sized enterprises and about the self-employed and about the conditions for people who start a business, and we in Enhedslisten would love to do so. In fact, I think we have also taken some good steps in the right direction, i.e. maternity leave for self-employed people and the possibility of being able to shut down your business so that you can be on cash benefits, which we have worked together on. So I am very pleased about that, and in the Enhedslisten we always want to work together on good proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154852	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154854	In the Liberal Alliance, we think that the tax in Denmark is too high. This is due to the fact that the tax burden in Denmark is the highest in the world. Therefore, we would like to lower the tax, and Anders Samuelsen found at one point that he would illustrate our results with a trophy for every billion we had lowered the tax with. I do not think that Enhedslisten should have the cups for Enhedslisten's economic policy; I suggest douchebags. For each time Enhedslisten lowers the incomes of the people in Denmark who have the lowest incomes by 0.1 per cent, I think that Enhedslisten should have a douche bag. And that means that Enhedslisten must have 16 punks, because Enhedslisten's policy, together with the government, has lowered the incomes of the people with the lowest incomes in Denmark by 1.6 percent. If it is that we come down to the Enhedslisten with 16 douchebags, will Enhedslisten run for a movie or a picture where we hand over the 16 douchebags to Mrs. Mai Villadsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154953	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602154954	I think it is a pity that the rapporteur is not offering us the cups instead, because I think we have done a great deal together, including for those in our society who have the least. Then it is true that we have made agreements, such as those in the United Kingdom. I would like to say that I am not in favour of this report, but I am in favour of it, and I am in favour of it, for example, raising cigarette taxes, but it is doing something about the health of our people. So are we in the finish line? We are by no means. We must reduce inequality in our society, and we would really like to do so in the Enhedslisten. We would also like to make tax policy, we would like to tax those that you gave tax cuts harder, and then we would like to lighten the tax for them at the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155036	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155037	Well, there's something Mrs. Mai Villadsen has misunderstood. You get a trophy if you implement your policy. If you go out publicly and say that you want to raise the incomes of the poorest but, on the contrary, lower the incomes of the poorest, then you have to have douchebags. That is what the rule is, and that is why I ask whether Mrs Mai Villadsen will accept the 16 douchebags that we would like to pass by and film Mrs Mai Villadsen accept. For Enhedslisten has helped reduce the incomes of the poorest in Denmark, those with the lowest incomes, by 1.6 per cent. in the cooperation of Enhedslisten with the Government and the other Red Parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155114	Now, I don't know the punk and trophy rule that seems to exist in the Liberal Alliance, but if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen comes down with a douche bag, so I'd like to have a cup of coffee and talk about economic policy. I don't think we'll agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155132	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155136	Thank you. After all, we have heard Enhedslisten take up the fight to combat child poverty in connection with the Service Commission, and great respect for it. But there is also something that I think is a major problem when you read closely in the proposals of the Commission on Education, which actually contains some good things, and that is that special rates for young people under 30 years of age will be abolished with certain mental disorders. This means that those people with mental disorders who already have enough problems, because we are under-priority of the psychiatrist in this country, go from DKK 11,698. a month to DKK 6,600. Will the Enhedslist help ensure that it does not happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155228	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155230	Thank you very much, sir. Jens Rohde for the question, and I think I was just as concerned as the rapporteur when I read that element of the recommendations. Because if someone is having a hard time, then it is young people with mental illness, and they do, as the rapporteur says, precisely because in our country we have a psychiatry that is simply not good enough. We have done everything we can to rectify this in financial law negotiations, but there is a long way to go. And yes, there will of course the Enhedslisten ensure and work to ensure that the young people who will be included in the Commission's proposal will not be affected when an agreement is reached. We will work on that as hard as we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155312	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155314	But does Mrs Mai Villadsen have the same determination as I have seen in relation to the children, which I fully support because it is right? We need children's rights in this country, which is being taken seriously, and this might also mean that in the longer term there will be fewer mental illnesses among young people. So it's a good investment before it happens. But will the Enhedslisten go as well as we do not intend to do on the part of the KD? 'Cause I'm gonna have to tell you that Enhedslisten, who probably has a little more to shoot with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155351	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Christian Democrats for actually raising children as part of the blue block. I think it is very important that that voice should also be heard there. We are always very well informed about the negotiations, and we promise to do so in this area too. Because it is very important that we not only redistribute poverty, but that we actually lift everyone in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155412	Thank you. Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155414	Thank you. I would actually like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur and thank you for the speech about Enhedslisten's rapporteur really think that the best thing to get people into the working community is to make the levels of benefits so high that we are basically in a situation where a great many citizens who are standing up today go to work, have a low-income job, get less paid to themselves and their family than, for example. people who, with the proposal that Enhedslisten has made, have just come to Denmark and come to a rate of benefit. In this context, I would also like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur something. I thought, in fact, that solidarity was about ensuring that we, for example. The negative social heritage breaks in a form in which children and young people do not grow up in a family where parents are excluded from the working community, that it was solidarity to ensure that more people enter the working community, that they have a duty to work as a starting point, and that in this way we ensure that they are not sidetracked.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155523	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155524	In the Enhedslisten, we want to make a huge contribution to ensuring that people get to work and that jobs are created for people, and we would very much like to help break the social legacy of children. Especially children who grow up in poverty, we can see a huge risk of ending up in unemployment and ending up in poverty in the long term. Just one year in poverty has enormous consequences for a child's life in the long term, and I really just want to arrest the premise that if you make a cash aid ceiling or other, it means that a lot of jobs are created so magically that people can get, because we have seen that it has not done so. What has the ceiling on cash benefits, which the Left has introduced, done? Yes, it has resulted in thousands of families and children ending up in poverty, and this creates many problems in the long term. So what your policy stands for, with all due respect, I say is not something that breaks the social heritage.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155617	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155618	Thank you. Perhaps it was also too much for me to ask two questions and hope to get just one answer, but then I got no answer. That's what happens sometimes. I just want to understand whether Enhedslisten's rapporteur really believes that it is solidarity with the children who grow up in a home where parents are outside the labour market and where their economic incentive to enter the labour market is non-existent, because the Enhedslisten and the policy now being pursued together with the current government basically make it more attractive for a great many families to be on the job market than it is to be on the labour market. Is that solidarity with those children?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155657	I would just like to stress that in Denmark you cannot simply be on passive support because there you have to take a job when you are offered one. One cannot just lie at home on the couch and see Netflix, as I have heard right-wing politicians say, and I am very concerned that there are many who have that view. We must help people into work, and the best thing to do for a family is, of course, to ensure that people get to work, but it simply does not create jobs to impoverish people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155727	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155730	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen for her speech. I would also like to thank you for your cooperation, not only to the rapporteur, but also to the good farmers in the party, whom I am spending many hours with at the moment. There's something I'm a little curious about. It is 2 years since the parliamentary elections, but it is also 2 years since the European Parliament elections, when for the first time the Enhedslisten was given a seat in parliament. When we look at today's agenda on biodiversity crisis and nature, we have to say that it is the European Union that is helping us to push on in Denmark in terms of protecting. Right now, matters are on the way to protecting 30%. and in particular protect 10%. of land in Europe. I would therefore like to know whether these two years in Parliament have made Enhedslisten re-evaluate its agenda for EU withdrawal so that we can now see Enhedslisten being part of the rest of us who are actually fighting for a greener and more solidarity Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155829	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155830	But Enhedslisten's Member of the European Parliament, Nikolaj Villumsen, is fighting because every day we have a greener and more united Europe, and as late as Friday, I think it was, there was just an agreement in the field of nature, in which I know he has played a huge role, among other things. by working to prohibit beam trawls. So I'm really happy with that. However, I would also like to say, as can be said, very close to the rapporteur's colleague on climate change, that we have also been in negotiations after negotiations on climate change and have seen how the European Union is the restriction that we can do what we need in the climate area. It is a ban on new sales of diesel and petrol cars. The 'yes' advertising scheme, for which SF is so fiercely fighting, is what the EU is preventing. Yes, it is; it would be introduced during the last red government period, and it could not be done because of the European Union. So the rosy picture you have in SF, I think maybe it's a little more nuanced than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155931	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602155933	In relation to advertising, yes, thank you, I look forward to the answers from the Commission becoming a little clearer, so that it can be seen that the European Union is not standing in the way of this. It's a Danish decision. But when I ask about this, it's because I see your MEP and the amazing work he lives down there... great applause for it... but I also just know that if you keep looking at the door when you're part of a community, it's also hard to get to really mark it because the others are looking and wondering if they're going out or going in. So that's actually why I'm asking the question about these two years. It is not small-scale polemics, a matter of yes or no. Is there a discussion about the membership of the European Union and the community we have in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160017	So, in the Enhedslisten, we are constantly discussing our policy, including our EU policy. It is not a secret at all, but we are very critical of the fact that the European Union puts the market above the climate and puts the market above workers' rights. That is, of course, where we stand, and I do not actually understand that SF cannot also sometimes become a little more bitter about how much the EU helps to prevent. I agree that we are doing a great deal together in the field of nature, and I am very pleased with the cooperation that exists, especially in the Parliament between the SF and the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160050	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Heidi Bank from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160054	Thank you. And thank you for your speech from the rapporteur. What I would like to hear about is Enhedslisten's view of equality, and here we are not talking about economic equality; we are talking about equality in security. Because it is the case that we have some criminal foreigners who are at our exit centres, and they must then wear an ankle bracelet, I understand that Enhedslisten believes, and that is the problem otherwise solved. What I do not quite understand is: how would criminal foreigners back up to look after that anklet, go with it and make sure that it has too power and electricity, and what else is needed for it to work, when you do not even want to meet the requirements that today, at the exit centres? In other words, it is quite modest that we, as a society, are calling for compliance with the rules of the game laid down by democratic society in order to be in Denmark, and we are not even doing so today. So would the rapporteur please explain this to us?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160147	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160149	I mean, I'm not the legal rapporteur, but I suppose that if you're doomed to wear an ankle bracelet, it's the case today that there's a sanction if you break with the demands of it. That's why I don't think it can be so weird. I mean, there are sanctions if you don't live up to what you have to do. But I have to say that I think that with regard to the solutions for an exit centre proposed by the previous government, where they would be placed on Lindholm at a price per year. overnight accommodation, which was higher than the price of an overnight stay on d'Angleterre, was a way to be completely indifferent, also with tax dollars. So I don't understand why you want to spend money on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160232	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160233	In fact, I think that there was a great deal of care to ensure that foreigners would be moved, in other words those who cannot be able to behave according to the rules we set up as a democratic society, in a way that would create the least possible insecurity. Because that is exactly what we are talking about, namely that there is an imbalance in security in Denmark. Not all citizens experience that it is equally safe. Right now there is a problem at Kærshovedgård, with great insecurity, because the government's support parties do not sit down and find a common solution. So I really believe that Enhedslisten has an obligation to make some serious offers in that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160314	Well, in the Enhedslisten, we do not really believe that the current situation is sustainable either. We would like this area to be set up in a completely different way, but if it is to be the case that there should be exit centres in the way that today, I think it should be done in much smaller units.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160333	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160336	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech, and congratulations on your political leadership. It's nice to have a midjyde from Kibæk at that post. Many of us enjoy it at home. What I really want to ask is economics. For we probably need in the Radical Left to hear such clearly from the Enhedslisten: Does Enhedslisten believe that in Denmark we have a problem with filling a lot of jobs? I am simply talking about hands and feet, not theoretical labour supply or anything else, but people in home care, educators, I am talking about minimum standards and people in the private labour market, the IT industry, all sorts of places, and people in the green transition, which the Prime Minister also addressed. We have received a little different signals from different Unity Listers, so does Enhedslisten think that there is a problem with finding enough labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160435	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160437	I think, frankly, that the signal confusion comes from the Radicals. In the Enhedslisten, of course, we believe that hands are missing in the nursing homes. That is why we have set aside money to actually train more people. There are so many hands missing for the green transition. So this means that we need to focus much more on vocational training, just as the Prime Minister mentioned. There can be no doubt about that. Of course we would like that. There are one fifth of all young people in a youth year who do not receive youth education. We must do something about that, and we would very much like to be involved in it. However, what I read in Berlingske this morning was about theoretical labour supply, which is achieved through some calculation models, where you can then raise the top tax limit or other, and I do not think that this will create real hands in the right labour market. We are ready to discuss interest subsidies, the tax at the bottom and much more with radicals, but what theoretical labour supply can really be a cover for making reforms that hit those who have the least, we are not in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160544	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160545	I am actually sorry that Enhedslisten sees Radical Left announcement as a declaration of war. It was by no means at all. I actually think we've offered up to dance as wide as we possibly can. And there's a lot about labor in that article too. There is also something about labour supply. It is true that both have been mentioned in this way. This is really where the labour force is concerned. And I am also very pleased that the rapporteur is talking about investing in education, which was the answer to my colleague from the Radical Left, but there must therefore be some investment in a completely different scale from what we have done so far. So where is it that Enhedslisten sees that we can find the huge lump of funding for the visions we have together, perhaps especially in the field of education?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160631	In the Enhedslisten, we welcome funding proposals for every budget bill debate. We believe that some of the tax concessions made during the last parliamentary term should be withdrawn. We are also ready to look at interest rate deductions and in many other areas. So we're ready to work together. I would say that, of course, a great deal needs to be done in the field of education, but quite frankly: it is a declaration of war when you say you want to raise the retirement age, remove the early retirement pension, lower the wage and do everything that goes against the understanding paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160705	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160708	Thank you. The Service Commission came with their report on Monday, and Enhedslisten had probably warmed up a bit before that was at least how I read and heard it. So I would just like to ask whether the red line that has been talked about still exists: how many families for children is what Enhedslisten believes must be lifted so that we do not have a choice this autumn? Because otherwise it's just empty words, so it's just rhetoric. I'm kind of preoccupied with that. The Enhedslisten and the Left don't agree, but I'm just preoccupied with and curious about how much Enhedslisten means this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160801	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160802	What I and we in the Enhedslist have said is neither empty words nor rhetoric. We need to pull this society in the right direction and reduce inequality and reduce child poverty. This means that we must also make up for all the inequality-building proposals that the previous government stood for. It is the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule, the integration allowance and many other things that have meant that families live in poverty. Then Mr. Hans Andersen specifically about how many children are going out of poverty. If it was to the Enhedslisten alone, it was then zero children who lived in poverty. Of course there is. Surely no one is served in a rich country like Denmark. Where we end up in the negotiations is exciting to see, but we're going to fight with beaks and claws to make it as good as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160850	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160851	Then there is no red line. The agreement must be as good as possible. Now the question is whether the government wants to make an agreement with the Enhedslisten at all, because what is proposed is that it should be the same financial framework. It is no secret that we do not like to tear down the ceiling on cash aid. That's where we disagree with the Enhedslisten. We must ensure that work pays off. We must ensure that there is always a noticeable gain from going to work. It's basically the best we can do for the kids, so they see that Mom and Dad are starting to go to work. That's what we think. But I just have to say that these are words and only words and that Enhedslisten does not want to put action behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602160931	Perhaps I should just address what the questioner and many others keep saying, namely that working is not worthwhile. It is very much in Denmark today. I would also like to say that the level of benefits that we now have is simply helping to push wages on our labour market and the conditions that exist. It almost creates such a.com-firing, where people are so afraid to get out of the labour market and onto the very, very low benefits that they are going to be charged for anything. We cannot be familiar with this, and that is why we must have done something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161004	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Stine Pilt Olsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161010	Thanks for the speech. I would like to go in a slightly different direction. After all, I come from the South Seas myself, and this is an area where companies are usually passed on to the next generation. For example, we have many agricultural companies. That is why it is incredibly high on those edges, since the government with the support parties has chosen to triple the tax on the generational shift, and it is hardly a surprise that we in the Conservative People's Party are fighting hard to get that tax abolished. I would therefore like to ask why the next generation should not carry on a business without imposing an unfair tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161058	So, basically, I do not think it is fair that because you were born for something, you have to have a tax rebate compared to everyone else. I simply do not think that is fair, and there are also figures that show that it does not actually benefit society financially either. That is why we do not support in the Enhedslisten that it should be changed. We were really happy that the discount for heirs was removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161125	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161126	Well, the rapporteur must recognize that the road to welfare goes through jobs. How, then, can we defend imposing extra burdens on these jobs so that we may move them out of the country? How does the rapporteur intend to be financed in the future when Enhedslisten seems to forget where the money comes from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161150	In Enhedslisten, we will never forget where the money comes from. But I think one forgets when one speaks so much about this generational tax that it is also unfair to the other companies where there is not just an heir or anyone to take over from the family. I simply think it is unfair discrimination against some who are born for money, compared with others who do not. So that's why we believe, as we do, in the Enhedslisten. I also believe that our welfare society is a prerequisite for us to have good and well-run companies in Denmark, and we are also a country where it is very good to operate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161223	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161226	Thank you. There are so many things you could ask from what the rapporteur is talking about and the answers that have come, but I stick to what I have prepared. When the government set up a task force back in March to investigate whether it was possible to pick up IS terrorists and their children from Syria to Denmark, Enhedslisten called it a jam jar. And as you know, the Prime Minister ended up making a miserable and undignified failure to ensure the safety of the Danes, and, contrary to all promises, the government would now bring 3 IS terrorists and their 14 children to Denmark. Does the matter end here for the Enhedslisten, or has the government not delivered a satisfactory result? It is important to remember that only a few months ago the Enhedslisten made proposals that all children in Syrian camps with Danish citizenship should be taken to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161322	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161324	Of course, the matter does not end here for us in the Enhedslisten. We believe that all Danish children must of course go home to Denmark, and they will not do so with this agreement, this proposal, and I am very concerned about that. Of course, we will work hard for them to do so. However, I would like to arrest what the questioner says in his question that the Prime Minister is making a miserable and undignified failure of Denmark's security. No, they're the ones who don't listen to PET's threat assessment. Because it's the police intelligence service that says very directly that it's more dangerous for you and me and our security to let people stay down there because they can escape from the camps and the children can be radicalized, and I think it's unworthy that you don't listen to that. But I'm just gonna have to assume that New Citizens don't listen to the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161413	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161415	After all, nothing has changed at this stage. And we also wanted in New Citizens that all IS terrorists should have taken away their Danish citizenship, regardless of their status as stateless. But the Prime Minister has been very clear in the spit that Denmark is not their home because they have decided to join the Islamic State and acknowledge the face of terror. But the Prime Minister chose to give in to others. Enhedslisten, who threatened fire and fire if the government didn't obey. How far will Enhedslisten go if there are no more than the 3 IS terrorists and their 14 children to Denmark? Will one or more ministers be overthrown? Are you even ready to withdraw support for the government, or are you going to protect it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161457	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161458	In the Enhedslisten we will work hard to ensure that the last Danish children will also come home, and I simply cannot understand how you feel you can have political credibility when you keep touring around saying that foreigners must be expelled, and then you do not bring Danes home to Denmark that you do not want it. I think that is just so double standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161522	Thank you. The next comment is to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161529	Thank you. I could understand from Mrs Mai Villadsen's reply to my colleague Mrs Heidi Bank that the Enhedslisten wants the expelled criminal asylum seekers and refugees to be sent in smaller units. But I also understand that the legal rapporteur from the Enhedslisten has proposed that they should be sent home with an ankle bracelet. So is this what Enhedslisten thinks, that you should send them home to where their families live around Denmark, and then they should wear ankle bracelet?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161600	In short: yes, it is our policy, but we know that there is no majority in favour of it, and then we have to find a solution. In today's exit centre problem, we propose smaller units.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161611	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161612	Of course, it worries me that you want to send them home with an ankle bracelets. I understand the wish, but the problem is that they cannot be prevented from taking off their ankles, and then we have absolutely no control over where these very criminals are located. That is why it is somewhat worrying that you just want to let them run around like this all over the place. How, then, will you ensure security for the Danes? Do they not go to those places where there is already a great deal of insecurity? Aren't these the places that many of them typically want to find again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161645	Well, excuse me, but it is the case today that it is people who have endured their punishment, and therefore they can travel freely in our country. So they can already do that. They can already go to Copenhagen or Sorø or go elsewhere, so the question seems a little crazy to me. Our policy is, as our legal rapporteur has said, and when it cannot be implemented because there is no majority in favour of it, then I think it would be better to divide them into smaller units.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161714	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161718	Thank you for the floor. I would like to follow up a little on the fact that the rapporteur stood up and praised and was almost proud of the threefold increase in the tax on the generational change of companies that has been passed along with the rest of the red bloc. The problem here is that it is not money that is earned that is taxed, it is a future profit. If we now take rural areas, it may be really, really difficult to borrow money for a fictitious value of a company that you never know about will make money. That is why many people are in a situation where they have to start with a huge debt if they are to continue to operate, for example. the local gas station or the local car workshop in rural areas. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not see the challenge of all these family-owned businesses closing down in our rural areas, because either you cannot borrow the money or you do not dare to commit to running a business with a huge debt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161818	But I want to maintain that I think it is most fair that one should be taxed equally, and not that people who inherit have priority or advantages over others. Then I would also like to say that it is quite right that we have very serious problems with lending opportunities in our rural areas. I am very pleased that a proposal has now finally been put forward to do something special in the area of housing. I know that is not the same, but it means so much, because there are simply areas in our country where you can hardly borrow for a home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161852	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161853	I didn't quite understand that, so I'm gonna try to ask you another way. The rapporteur's colleague, Peder Hvelplund, made a problem of selling Danish agricultural land to, for example, the development which the rapporteur has helped to set in motion. foreign capital funds because families cannot afford to keep it on Danish ownership. Does the rapporteur believe that foreign capital funds are better at managing Danish land or that foreign capital funds are better at taking local responsibility than LEGO and Danfoss are?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602161928	Now my own boyfriend himself is a farmer's son, and I would think it was pretty unfair if he got a tax advantage by being allowed to take over the farm from his father than if Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen or another farmer had to. I just don't think it's fair. But there is a huge problem; there is a huge problem with foreign capital funds coming and buying up our agriculture. I'm really, really worried about that, and we have to do something about that. That's why we, among other things. also, together with Conservatives, has proposed a land user fund, where you can then sell land to Danish farmers for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602162006	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen in a moment, of course, we need to get the liquor off. Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602162037	Thank you. Last week Poul Schlüter left Denmark's former Prime Minister, whom all of us who lived then remember. And those who have heard of him for the first time here in recent times have already learned how important improvements he made, not least when it comes to Denmark's economy. For Poul Schlüter worried about our economy and made fundamental changes such as fixed exchange rates, the abolition of indexation, the transition to a saving society and much, much more. But did you know that Poul Schlüter has also predicted the economic challenges we have today and will have to face in the future? He did that back in 1986. 1986 was a long time ago, some say, although we may be some who think that it is not that long ago, but still. That's when Kim Larsen sent the album in disguise as an adult on the street, when there was something called West Berlin, and when Argentina won the European Championship in football in Mexico. Schlüter was asked whether, in telegram style, he would give his bid on how Denmark would look in 50 years' time, i.e. in 2036 and it is a little fun to reread a text where Jens Lyn is a popular reference. It is impressive to read the following, and I quote that in 2036 there will be many more older than today, the number of people between 20 and 70 will be smaller, just as the number of children will be. This means that an increasingly smaller proportion of the population will have to support an increasing proportion, says the prediction. It is, of course, partly a guess and partly a man who could also predict population development. The prediction also includes that more people will retire at different times, take advantage of part-time schemes and the like and the involvement of pension funds, and then he also says that the video phone will be as common as the phone is today. There are also predictions that do not stick to the writing he made, but there are also 15 years left before we have 2036. I am proud to have shared a party with a man who was concerned with improving Denmark and a prime minister who dared take the bull by the horns and think long-term. He is an example of compliance, even today, when the Assembly Hall is closing, while Denmark is reopening. We can talk about the Corona soon in the past, but there's a bill, and because previous governments have thought about it, we've been able to afford the Corona bill. But even though bourgeois reforms have padded Denmark to a crisis, we face a challenge: the Corona crisis has been expensive. The Treasury has been open to billions, Danish industry has lost 258 billion. kr. in lost revenue, and yet there has never been so little talk about where the money comes from, and that time we have to find together in here now. The President of the Second Generation Reform Commission, Professor Nina Smith, says that we politicians need to gear up with the reforms, otherwise the Danish welfare model is not economically linked. We are going to take it again: we need to reform, otherwise welfare will not be linked. And promises of a significantly more expensive public sector do not help us. We must have the courage to give priority, and we must say it out loud that we want to give priority, otherwise the public sector will end up being 69 billion. kr. More expensive, just if we follow the demographic move. That would be a declaration of failure, because it would be tantamount to saying that nothing can be improved in budgets or in the public sector. In concrete terms, in the Conservative People's Party, we propose lowering the tax burden on both citizens and businesses, making it more attractive to take work for those outside the labour market and not setting off the elderly in their old age pension if they want to give a hand in the labour market. We need to increase the supply of work. Reform is needed, because the economy and competitiveness must be in place. As the good Schlüter also said: "We must try to make the companies as strong as possible so that they will again have the ability to create new, productive jobs in a natural way and ensure a good real wage for the employees. In this way, we will at the same time increase the incomes of the public sector, and we will create greater social security for the weakest groups in particular. By doing so, we are creating better living conditions for people in our society. It is true to this day, as it was then. Because it is with the surplus that we can also invest in our welfare societies. Among other things, I look forward to negotiating a new health reform after the summer break. We need to ensure more practitioners and a simpler and better healthcare system, and I both hope and believe that the agreement made by the former VLAK government together with the Danish People's Party can be an important part of the initiative that the government is making. I also hope that we can make better efforts for our elderly people, who are being discharged prematurely and who are sometimes lost between the hospital and the municipality. And when it comes to our elderly, I hope that the next session will finally be where we will talk more about the dignity, freedom of choice and respect for the individual in the care of the elderly, rather than a competition for who sends the most money; that will not necessarily give you more care. I know we can do that together in here, and if we want to and if we dare to think long-term, I am absolutely sure that good solutions are waiting. It was the forward-looking. But it is a final debate, so we must also look back a little on the year that has passed, and now I come here with such a cliffhanger: now I have two issues left, and now the Social Democrats and the government are getting mad at me; it went so well so far. When we look back on the year that has passed, there is, of course, one matter which is absolutely inevitable to be avoided. It is a scandal not seen greater in many, many years and an action and decision marked by complete panic, cynicism and lack of calm and overview. It is the slaughter of the Danish mink and a goodbye to an industry that has produced the world's best mink and brought export crowns home to Denmark. And most importantly: Human life's work was pulled out of their hands in a few minutes at a press conference with the Prime Minister in the lead. It's still a mystery to me, and that's probably what hurts me the most in this whole process, why we couldn't wait just a few days or three. Why couldn't we have a second opinion before we rushed out and people's life's work was gone, without a legal basis, by the way? This case will be looked into by the investigating commission, and that is a good thing. We have to get to the bottom of it. After all, it is a terrible matter and many unknowns are still missing. In these days it will then come for a day how the process of burning and burial took place. It certainly also tolerates getting to the light to a greater extent. A quite different matter, in which I also believe that cynicism with the government was really serious and could be seen, was the location of an exit center for deep criminals on Langeland. Just imagine, just for a moment... just think about it again... place a center in an island community that has struggled with such massive social challenges as you have on Langeland, and when things are finally getting a little better... something was finally happening; it went well, it went better... you come and place the center there. The fact that this happens in the only municipality where the government's most loyal support party has a mayor's post merely makes cynicism even more clear. Fortunately, the exit center at Langeland has been dropped, but the government has an unresolved problem. For even though another parliamentary year goes on, both the Folketing and the citizens of Central Jutland are still waiting for the government to come up with a solution. The criminals must get away from Kærshovedgård, as the government has promised. Yet they are now waiting for the third year in Central Jutland. That was the background we have looked forward to, and hopefully I have pushed so much to some that there will also be a few questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163007	Thank you to the rapporteur. There'll be a few questions. The first is from sir. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163014	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for starting it with a great Conservative Prime Minister. Honor to Poul Schlüter's memory. I know that some of the measurements that have been lately have led some to wonder whether Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen was the new Schlüter. I know that it is, of course, a difficult discussion to enter into, but one of the areas in which I am sure Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen would like to be compared with Schlüter, is in fact in relation to financial responsibility, and that is why I would like to give Mr Schlüter my question here. Søren Pape Poulsen the opportunity to make us a little more aware of how economic policy is linked. We have not been able to find a comprehensive overview of the proposals supported by the Conservatives, which are the driving force behind expenditure, but we have talked about the fact that it is about 20 billion. kr. in the area of taxation, with which the Conservatives want to reduce taxes, but the room for manoeuvre is only 17 billion. kr. Until 2025. Well, then, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen does not just explain to us where it is that needs to be cut and what it is that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163119	Thank you. Well, I understand that I'm being asked, because now you might think that I have the same economic approach to the world as Enhedslisten, and now they're getting mad too; I know that we want tax cuts and that they won't, etc. But for this, we're just spending money, I'd say we don't. Of course, when we deal with individual cases, it is based on our policy, and we have, of course, put forward a financial bill for 2021 on what we want. We did so this year, because now we thought we had such a little air that we as a party should try it and then we have put forward a proposal for it and it is fully funded. I would like to forward that and it can also be found on our website.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163205	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163206	Thank you very much for the draft budget, which I can find myself thank you. But what I am referring to is that, in this parliamentary year, we have supported and/or put forward proposals to pull 20 billion. kr. Out of the box, and we only have 17 billion. kr. You can't do that if you want to call yourself financially responsible. Well, then, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen does not just explain to me one more time: where is the overview, where is the context, and what is it that will not be able to afford? Because there isn't a penny in this for older people or children, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163242	That is because we need to look at our overall policy. It is not the case that if there is a proposal in the Folketing that we think is right or that we have tabled ourselves, then suddenly we will vote against it. But we also have on the agenda to make reforms in this country that are going to make this society richer, and we are clearly saying that we must do so while giving priority to the use of the money. I think that every sensible party does. There is something we would like to do, and then we must give funding. That is also why I commended Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen earlier today. For there you point out how we create a supply of labour and how we can reduce some taxes. It also comes with a price, and there we have among other things. A number of areas in which we want to save are identified. It is clear that we must also be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163320	Thank you. The next question is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163323	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. One of the things I would like to ask is something that I have spent at least 39 meetings with Mrs Mona Juul, and that is the climate and agriculture. There are two ways of dealing with these negotiations. One can either say that we know xyz agents, and that is why we can set ourselves a climate target, or one can ask what is necessary to achieve, as we have done in relation to both the 2030 target in the Climate Act and the 2025 milestone that has been endorsed by conservatives. From the SF's point of view, we have announced that we must have a minimum reduction of 8 million. t CO 2 Is it on the medium-term agenda where we first find out what we can and then make it the goal, or do we have an objective that we want to achieve, and then we have to find the means to do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163416	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163417	After all, we have not reported a precise number of tonnes out. The questioner is quite right about that, and we probably do not. But we're going into the room to find a solution to this. After all, we expect the negotiations on agriculture to end with us being part of an agreement in which we also ensure that agriculture has to deliver itss. But we have to look at it in a context. We need to look at what is to be delivered in tonnes, and then we also need to discuss nitrogen and how it should be linked, and then the economy itself in it. Because this isn't gonna solve if there's no money in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163456	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163457	No, and we will not solve it either without using the agricultural aid given by the European Union to the region. The reason I'm asking you a little bit about this is because I'd like to know what kind of approach you have to these negotiations. What I have been a little surprised to see in many parties is precisely that you do not report anything. And if we say that we do not have to meet the 70% target and that agriculture does not have to do its thing, then we are left with the question: who is going to do it? What I really want from Conservatives is to say: yes, agriculture must provide its fair share of the 70-percent target we have in 2030. And it's going to cost in agricultural subsidies, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163538	I also believe that the parties here and agriculture themselves make this clear. Everyone knows you have to deliver something. Then we just have to do it the wise way. I also feel that we must be careful not to just feed the dog with our own tail and say that we are now taking the whole bathroll, and then we are going to give it full throttle there. There's gotta be money in there. This thing about saying that now we're taking out a lot of money, and then we have some pools that you can search from afterwards, we're gonna have to be careful to put it nicely. Well, look at the other agreements we've made in the climate area. Hopefully, we agree there that we have added substantial amounts in order to be able to make those agreements. That will be necessary here too, I think, if an agreement is ever to be reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163618	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163620	Thank you for that, and thank you for the nice words here too. I am actually concerned about what I believe the rapporteur and I share, in other words, in addition to the need for labour, namely that we should have good education, because it is precisely necessary, among other things. for our companies to be able to absorb skilled, knowledgeable people from all levels of education. That's why I'm curious about where the Conservative People's Party stands. Does the Conservative People's Party, like the government, believe that it is necessary to cut down on urban education in order to create new places where we need it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163704	After all, we have seen what has come from the government and as a starting point we take it down positively, because we think it is quite real that there are some places in Denmark where we need to be able to train for more. At one time we could train to more places, and we are all responsible for the fact that there has been a great deal of centralisation. We are going to enter positively into the negotiations with the proposal of the government and I simply do not want to make that debate so simple that we can stand by and say a percentage of it, and then we can make an agreement, because I think it is complex. We want to be allowed to enter into negotiations and we are going to ask a lot of questions about what it really means and how far we are going, but the very idea in what the government has put forward that we can train ourselves to more places is, in fact, good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163750	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163751	We also agree with that idea in the Radical Left, and we have played it out ourselves. Now the basic preface is something we really have to look at here, because does the rapporteur think that what business is asking for is to cut down in the cities where there is the highest percentage of the lowest recruitment rate? I do not need a percentage on the part of the rapporteur that is missing the most recruitment rate and that is where we have to cut back in order to create the others? Does the rapporteur not see the possibility that we could actually set up the education we need throughout the country without having to cut them down in the cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163827	I think that we can look at without prejudice whether, as far as the education we know today is concerned, for example. In big cities, have we been so lucky that we just hit the perfect number? Here in 2021, do we have the perfect number, or is it because you can only educate yourself in these places that there has also been so much search for it? I think it is a little more complex than that, just to be perfectly honest, and therefore I would like to be allowed to go into that room and ask about it, look at the search and perhaps also look at what the possibility might be for the students. But most importantly, we also ensure good education everywhere in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163901	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602163904	Thank you. Now it wasn't really Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's speech, which animated me to stand up, but rather a very topical matter. Over the last few days we have seen a new scandal rolling out around the Defence Intelligence Service, where it is at least likely that politicians in Germany, Norway, Sweden and France have been spied on from the American side and via Danish cables. And that is something that has been noted with very, very great concern in our neighbouring countries too. Erna Solberg has been out to say that you must, of course, have examined this to the bottom, and both Macron and Merkel have said that this is totally unacceptable. It is also something that really matters to our relations with our neighbouring countries that we can give them the confidence that this will actually be properly and thoroughly examined. So I would like to hear: will Conservatives support ensuring that, in relation to the Commission's current investigation into the defence intelligence service, we actually have to look at the issue of espionage as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164007	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164008	I would like to prepare the questioner for a rather dull answer, and that is that I would say that I can rely on the Government's comments on this matter. I am not in the Control Committee, and that is where I think this kind of discussion belongs. And otherwise I would not have any further comments on that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164034	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164035	It's amazing how small people are in this case. However, it has to be said that to be able to reassure politicians in our neighbouring countries that this is actually being investigated should be a minimum. As it is right now, we have no guarantees that neither the Danish people nor the Danish Parliament nor our neighbouring countries have any guarantees that the issue of espionage will be addressed in this Commission study at all. And that's just what I think you should at least go out and promise them. It is absolutely crucial that they can also have confidence in us and that we can maintain our good neighbourly relations, and it would be nice if Conservatives were to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164113	We are going to give the government full support in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164119	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164122	Thank you. Now I've known mr. Søren Pape Poulsen for many years, and I remember him as a highly skeptical European, at least as a man who often spoke out against much of what came from the European Union, especially on the Conservative National Council, as it is called. All of a sudden we saw here a year ago Conservatives go in and support a joint debt liability, a common recovery package, while the Left chose to stand outside it. That is why I would like to ask, even at a time when people are constantly being asked who they are pointing to as the future Prime Minister, and everything needs to be taken into account, whether it is an indication that in future we will see a more EU-positive, enthusiastic and integrationist line from Mr Tugendhat. Søren Pape Poulsen and the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164221	I guess there are more answers to that question. That certainly depends on what we are talking about when it comes to European cooperation. I must also be honest and say that in my younger years I have probably been a little more hardcore in my scepticism about that system. However, when we supported that mandate, it was because, first of all, I believe that we must do so, so that a government can also have a room for negotiation. Secondly: yes, of course things are happening in the European Union that we do not agree with, but there are also things happening in the Danish Parliament that I do not like, but I still believe that we have an interest in Europe being strong, for example. Europe and the United States can stand together in trade policy towards China, for example, and if we are not to leave some European countries in the arms of some countries that we do not want to finance too much, we have to find common ground somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164322	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164323	That's a very uplifting answer. I am actually very pleased about that, and it is not sarcastic, not at all. This gives me the opportunity to ask whether the Conservative People's Party has had the same reflections as in the Sister Party, the CDU, in Germany, namely that we need to be stronger on the European continent, because we cannot necessarily count on those we previously thought we could always count on. Now things have changed in the United States, but we have been through four years, which has been difficult for the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164403	Now we are not going to mix things up, but I would like to make it clear that we see the United States as our very tightest and strongest ally end. However, when it comes to the European Union, we have an interest in the European countries being strongly united where it makes sense. I am worried when I see some cash flows in some countries because it can have a bad or bad impact on where Europe is going to stand. That is why I think we should actually go a long way in this cooperation and then, of course, we should both say to and from and put some poles up for how far we want to go on the various issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164444	The next question is Mr. Jesper Petersen from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164447	Thank you. I would like to return to the economics issue, as my good colleague Mr. Jens Joel mentioned earlier. It started to seem like it was a little uncomfortable for Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, but we have to go a little further now, because things are going well, and congratulations on the fine opinion polls, but in some way it also obliges us to get a little out of the bush and not to put ourselves in a position of politics and that there is some kind of context in what we say we mean. The example of voting in favour of approx. 20 billion kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But then reference is made to a financial bill, and if you go in and look at it, you will also see that there are significant tax cuts and that some of the things that have to finance it are savings in the public sector, among other things. in important areas such as courts, prisons, fire brigade, research, tax administration. Is it good conservative policy to save in prisons, courts, the tax administration, which could well need an investment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164551	What we have done in our draft budget is that we have set aside some areas, and then we have said that there is 1% which should be referred to as a whole as having had a re-priority contribution; and then, of course, we are asking for it to be calculated in the Ministry of Finance, so that we will have some credibility about what we are putting forward in this way. So it is true that one can then discuss where to find these savings, and when to do so, where to find them, and then of course one can say: Should it be in the utmost operation, it should be on some administration, some cold hands, or where should it be? Then we say that we think it is necessary to find that percentage in order to finance the rest. I mean, it's no use, we want a whole lot of money without us pointing to funding. Of course, it's the best way to spend the money, we all think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164637	That is fair enough, and that is a yes, and then we have come so far with a little political consumer information today about something that the Conservatives actually think, namely that prisons, courts, tax authorities, fire services and research should be spared; it is a good thing to have been made clear. If we are also going to round the second round on tax policy, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, to achieve, but we will vote in favour of what we agree with when there are resolutions in the Folketing, and then I will just hear about the tax cuts for 20 billion. kr. voted in favour: are they funded?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164709-2	I will not accept that, as Mr. Jesper Petersen sneaked up now, so means that now we get it so and so bad and the second and the third by the savings. Sir. Jesper Petersen knows as well as I do that when you pick up money in different sectors, you can do it in different ways, and then you can of course go in and do what you say: is this the right way we spend the money? I never think the public sector should stop asking itself whether we are spending the money in the right way. I'd like to stand up for that. It's hard for me to comment on whether it's exactly 20 billion. We have plans for five and ten years ahead, and when we go out and say that we are voting in favour of various tax reductions, it is a resolution that we are voting in favour of where we pledge that this is the way we want to go. It's not like we're dealing with a financial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164759	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164802	Thank you. I understand that the Conservatives do not like state-guaranteed loans, which are otherwise part of what the government has proposed and which the SF has also been concerned with, in order to be able to hold hands on rural areas and citizens who cannot obtain loans. I believe that the Conservative rapporteur in this area has said that the Minister for Industry should not play the bank manager. I assume that means that the state should not interfere in lending. But sir... Søren Pape Poulsen then explain to me why it is okay for the state, through what is called the Growth Fund, to help companies with loans while it is not okay to help citizens? Mr. Soren Pape Poulsen, that's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164857	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164859	But the question is whether it can be dealt with in this way; I would like to question that, i.e. what the Growth Fund is for a construction, in relation to what one should be able to borrow to where in Denmark. So, what I can relate to is that Epinion has done a study for Finance Denmark, and almost nine out of ten who have applied for loans have got it, in town and on land. And in those cases where refusal has been refused, it is mainly due to a lack of room for manoeuvre in the budget, both in town and on land. It may well be that you could not have financed the house you would have liked, but then it could have been that you could have financed another one. I'm gonna have to rely on that investigation and everything else equally believe until I see the opposite proven.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164944	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602164946	It may be a little difficult to understand that the Conservative People's Party would like to help companies through the Growth Fund • it was actually an invention from Mr. Brian Mikkelsen's side, when he was Minister of Business, is that the state here must go in and help businesses get started because it is important, but will not help citizens to get help with rural funding with state-guaranteed loans. Well, I don't quite understand how the Conservative People's Party can have that policy. All we know is that the RealMalitors say there's a problem. So what is the Conservative People's Party's bid on how to resolve the loan crisis in rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165027	Well, I actually think I replied to that, so that I do not agree that you can compare the two things. So, if the Growth Fund can help to get some companies going that create a lot of jobs, it is of course for the benefit of all of us, but the mortgage associations have an interest in having a product that is attractive to people. If the study I am referring to here is correct, we also have to ask ourselves: what is the problem? What kind of problem are we running around with? Well, how big is the individual problem? When I am told that nine out of ten who have applied for loans have received it, then we need to have a conversation about what we do then, i.e. if you still think that we have a big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165109	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Ida Auken from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165112	Thank you very much. I was actually going to ask about climate, which after all filled in infinitely little in Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's speech, but I was just so curious about the economic policy of the Conservatives. Because it is true that in the field of taxation 20 billion can be counted. kr., but last week we had another exciting Conservative motion for a resolution in the Parliamentary Assembly, which had a very sympathetic intention, which even Enhedslisten shared, but could not vote in favour either, because there was a lack of funding of 15 billion. kr. Conservatives suggested that we should make demands on the municipalities to renovate all their buildings by 3%. Annually, and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen knows very well, as former mayor, that there will then be a 15 billion-dollar dut bill. kr. So is it the new economic policy of the Conservatives that there should be no funding for the proposals made in the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165200	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165201	Well, it's not gonna work, that one. I think I was actually hearing some of the debate. We are calling for energy renovation, and then we are going to equate it with the fact that it costs x number of billions that somebody has figured out, and if we do not have funding for them in such a motion for a resolution then economic policy is not coherent. I simply do not recognise that. Allow me to say that the municipalities also have a room of advice and priority in this country, and I also think it is fair to say that one can also refurbished energy without having to bring money from the state. Well, the construction projects in the municipality have priorities. Is it quite crazy that we are sending out a signal, like ourselves, that when the state has to do something, municipalities and regions must also? I mean, it's gotta be one for you, because otherwise you can't mean anything about the municipalities? That is just the premise on which I would like to raise a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165258	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165259	That's very exciting. It could be that sir. Søren Pape Poulsen was supposed to have that discussion with the municipalities. I believe that most people who have worked and been involved in the negotiations with the municipalities know that if you come up with a government demand, which is a firm requirement, that's what Conservatives suggested, there will be a bill that goes with it. This is what practice has been in at least the 14 years I have been in here. So I can understand that sir... Søren Pape Poulsen is also fulfilling a completely new system, where we can just make demands on the municipalities from Christiansborg, and then they should not have money with them either. Is it also part of Conservative's new economic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165336	But why is it that sometimes everything has to be so black and white in this hall? Is that really where we are? You can't mean anything about energy renovations without some kind of dut-claim of 15 billion. kr. How could you get some co-operation into the municipalities about this Espoo collaboration and other things? How could we look unbiasedly at some municipal agreements you make with the government to take something from? We made an agreement a few years ago when I myself sat on the board of the National Association of Municipalities, where we had some climate agreements that we made and took outside the financial framework. Let's try some things. Should we not do something to restore climate, or should things just be like this: okay, if you make a proposal like this, you cannot discuss it, because it is 15 billion. kr., and if you don't just have 15 billion. kr. In funding, we can't discuss it. Sometimes we also have to be able to discuss something in this hall. Motions for resolutions are not legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165433	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165436	Thank you. I would also like to ask about something that was not filled in Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's speech, but now Mr. Poulsen has... Søren Pape Poulsen was the Minister of Justice, which is why I know, or at least I hope, that he has given some thought to this. Unfortunately, it is the case that attacks are committed in Denmark on the basis of human skin colour or religion. Unfortunately, our Muslim fellow citizens in particular are experiencing assault, for the sole reason that they wear a scarf or have a different skin color than mine. There are about 5,000 hate crimes a year that are recorded, but only 312 of them have been charged, and only 12 of them have been convicted. I think that we have a huge problem in taking the fight against racism seriously. That is why I would like to hear how Conservatives feel about turning racism into a partial motive, that is to say that you can be convicted of a hate crime, of a racist assault, if that is a partial motive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165542	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165543	I do not think it is worthy of a society to experience what we are still seeing, where people are being attacked and experiencing hatecrimes because of their sexuality, ethnic origin or skin color, or whatever else it might be. And I feel that, like the part that is about a little extra, if it is a hatecrime, I also believe that the part that Mrs Rosa Lund is travelling there is worth talking about in the negotiations. It may also be part of that, i.e. the question of hatecrimes. One could look at: What is the overall term "hatecrime"? Well, I would very much like to discuss that without prejudice. I have no doubt for a moment that there are more hatecrimes going on in this country than the number judged for, because it is an enormously difficult burden of proof to lift. But how we get there and how we get a framework on it, I am happy to discuss it without prejudice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165644	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165646	I am very pleased to hear that, and we would certainly like to invite these discussions to the Enhedslisten. It is the case that there is a citizen's proposal which is about exactly this point of turning racism into a partial motive. Today it is really difficult to be convicted of a racist attack, because it only happens if it is the only motive, but sometimes there are more motives about a crime, and I know that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen knows very well. That is why I am very pleased with the positive feedback that is coming, and I can only say from the Enhedslisten that we are happy to invite that debate without prejudice, both down here in the Chamber, but certainly also outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165724	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165725	Then the art will be precisely to define it, in terms of how we define hatecrimes, that is, how we do it, and how we get to the place that I think everyone in the Folketing would like to go to. It cannot be right that we live in a society in which people who walk on the street experience being knocked down only because they have a certain sexuality, skin color or other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165755	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165800	Thank you for the floor. Then I'm really getting a little curious. After all, the Conservative President has his roots not far from where I grew up or have my municipal roots, namely in Aarhus. And like the chairman of the Conservative People's Party, I also have a good municipal angle and also stand with such a solid leg in an understanding of what the municipalities are building their economy on. That is why I am very concerned about what my colleague Mrs Ida Auken asked the President earlier. So does this really mean that the Chairman of the Conservative People's Party sincerely believes that we should discuss something in here in the Folketing and decide that the municipalities should do something, and then do not find out that they should then have an economy for it, so that they can come and tell us that they have a claim to an economy if we say they have to do something?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165906	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602165908	This is in relation to the resolution on energy renovations. It can be seen in line with the fact that the state has also had some demands. And we think it was a good discussion and a signal that municipalities and regions should also be refurbishing energy. So I fully understand that if we go in and make a specific legal requirement, then of course there will be some negotiations between KL and the government about how it should be implemented: what should the municipalities deliver, and what should the state deliver? But instead of constantly just sending money, we must also have a discussion about it: when we have municipal autonomy and you, for example, have a debate about it. I think it's okay for us from the Folketing to give a signal that there is also a task here that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170003	Thank you. And before I give the floor to the next person, I would ask that the other conversation in the Chamber be generally dampened. I now see that there is another question for Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170013	In fact, I think this is a really exciting discussion, because it is really the basis for how we look at what we decide from in here, what we give money to, and what sort of negotiations there are. I know the chairman of the Conservative People's Party as being a very responsible politician, and of course we have to discuss what is right and proper, but I also heard that they said that they would say that something had to be done, and then they do not understand that the municipalities would then come and say that they want the money for it. That's pretty Jysk logic, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170047	Here you go to the Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170049	Yes, but shouldn't we at any time on the part of the Danish Parliament also be able to discuss what can be given priority in the municipal world? In other words, I often hear the government and others pride themselves on the fact that the municipalities have never had more money than now and that, thanks to the majority that is now, there are no limits to how much money the municipalities have. After all, we need to have a discussion about it, including that we must be able to say right and proper from in here that there are tasks to be solved. There I think it is quite fine that we have the discussion about whether energy renovation is not also something to take care of in the municipalities and how to do it. Then, of course, we can discuss funding for how long and in what kind of cooperation etc. But there are also times when the Danish Parliament sends a check because we have said that now we want something specific, and then the money comes into the municipal budgets, and that is not exactly how they are spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170140	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170144	Thank you. This is getting more and more interesting. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen says, of course, that you can't say a whole lot without funding, but we have to admit that you can. Then I would actually like to ask about the 20 billion. kr. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen says that you do not have the number, and I am rather surprised if you cannot adopt a lot without having the funding. So the simple question is: how will the Conservatives do it? Do you have Conservative funding for the 20 billion? kr. in tax cuts, for which the Conservatives have voted?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170216	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170219	There is something we need to be kept up to and I think we can reasonably be kept up to. And the reason why I'm not just saying what it's like with the 20 billion. I am asked questions about figures where, of course, the questioner may well ask why I do not remember all the figures, and whether I do not have complete control of any figure or proposal that has been in the Folketing, but I have to admit that I do not. What I think we should be judged on a hundred percent is whether, when we put forward a financial bill, it is connected, because that is how we would run the store Denmark if we were to be responsible for it. We can then disagree with the draft budget we have put forward, but it cannot be said that it is not connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170301	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170303	I simply do not understand that. Does this mean that everything that the Conservatives are voting for is completely irrelevant, that is, as long as it is not included in the draft budget, it does not matter whether it is 20 billion? kr., or if it's 50 billion. kr.? I just don't understand it. How does it relate to everything else that has been said about goodness and that a whole lot cannot be said without funding? I don't understand. Are we really to understand that from now on and in the time we have been through here since the elections, everything that the Conservatives have voted for and will vote for means nothing, even if it is not in the financial law of the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170334	The economic policy on which a party must be judged, I think, is, of course, what a proposal for a financial bill is being put forward. It is clear, then, that when you have different discussions in this Chamber about the direction in which you want to go with regard to tax policy or other things, or whether you want to abolish one or the other tax, it is not always possible to say that it should then be financed in that way, and that is a perfectly fair approach to it. I think that these must be the financial legislative proposals that we are putting forward on which we must be judged. That is, in the end, the economic path chosen by a party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170408	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170412	I had a visit from a schoolteacher the other day who told me that he has an invisible student in his class. An invisible student is such a student who actually attends the class but is not there and has not been there for a long time. This student hasn't been there for a year because the student has a school move, has anxiety and can't get out of his home. There are a lot of such students who do not get the help they need. When teachers report it to the municipality, it drowns in the case or in the absence of time for these children, and therefore we want to change the legislation so that in cases where children have acute anxiety or urgent action is needed, it is not the case that the municipalities can make an effort in these very serious and acute cases. Will it be something that Conservatives will be involved in, especially in view of the growing dissatisfaction that has been with many children here during the coronal closure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170513	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170513-2	It's just a really important and super difficult subject, because how do we deal with it, where is the level, where is it, and how do we deal with it? I agree, of course, that if you experience that there are children who are miserable and have school migration, then action must be taken and action taken. Now we've just had a talk about the municipalities, and if I say it kr. If we do that, then we are totally irresponsible. But at least we need to have a talk with the municipalities and KL-- and you can do that in the negotiations with KL-- how to ensure that you take care of those children who are feeling really bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170555	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170557	Now I understand from the debate that Conservatives have the big purse in other contexts, and then I thought that I would hear if one then had a fundamental opposition to demanding that, with regard to these children who are simply absent from school for a long time because they do not get the right help, we say in here from the Folketing together with the municipalities, they must be delivered. There must be swift action so that it does not take years for the children to receive help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170624	No, we do not have a fundamental opposition to that. It's just hard for me here from the platform to say exactly how to handle it. But I'd really, really, really like to have a talk about it. That's serious, isn't it? It is about children's lives and the future they will have if they are not in school for six months. Of course it is serious and I would very much like to talk to the questioner about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170644	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the next speaker is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602170721	The second year, with a blood-red majority and a sadly increasingly powerful social democratic government, has passed. It has given the Danes higher taxes, greater debts, more control and more laws. The Social Democratic Government, without any legal basis, has killed the minks, abolished the mink industry and imposed a liability of many billions of dollars on the Danes. The blood-red majority has forced a turnaround in foreign policy, where IS terrorists are now actively taken to Denmark. If you have to say something positive and I would very much like to say so, it is that this second year, with the blood-red majority and a powerful social democratic government, has brought the blue parties closer together. It gives hope. Danish soldiers have fought in Iraq and Syria against the Islamic State. Danish soldiers have risked their lives in order to reduce the threat to security that the terrorist organisation Islamic State was and still is gone. From Western democracies, Muslims traveled to the Islamic caliphate inflamed by a sacred hatred of freedom and popular rule to participate in the fighting. Some 150 Muslims from Denmark have participated on the enemy side, thus fighting against Denmark and our allies. These are people who should never be let back into Denmark. In fact, I and a majority of this Parliament were quite in agreement with the government. The agreement lasted until May 18. On that day the government turned around on a plate and decided to actively bring IS terrorists from Syria to Denmark. It's irresponsible. The Danish soldiers, who since 2014 when Denmark became part of the alliance, have travelled out to fight Islamic State, are mocked and ridiculed by the Prime Minister's turnaround. The enemies that the Danish soldiers risked their lives to fight now come to Denmark. They get cash benefits, housing security and an apartment in social housing. They are given a yellow health insurance card and can apply for a lifelong early retirement pension with reference to the traumas they have received in the caliphate. Has the Prime Minister and the Government anything but a mockery of the Danes who are now going to live with insecurity, pay the bill and in the future learn to keep a proper tone when they meet the traitors at the harbor or elsewhere? I personally find it hard to hear anything but mockery in that decision. And you have to ask: why? Was there a majority here in the Folketing outside the government, which demanded that IS terrorists be brought to Denmark? Not at all. There was only one vocal left, assisted by the Radical Left and the cultural radical parnas around some newspapers and DR. The Prime Minister and government ministers claim well away that the import of terrorists increases the security of the Danes. In fact, it is a concession to the violent veto: instead of fighting them and keeping them at a distance, the government gives in and lets the terrorists in. A responsible prime minister had acted differently. A responsible prime minister had told the police and PET to secure the Danish borders and make sure that those people never, never, could ever enter Denmark again. They should have deprived themselves of their right to call themselves Danish; their Danish passports. This looks exactly like the reaction to threats of violence, which means that you give way and no longer want to draw the Prophet, that you shut your mouth and do not dare criticize Islam. The government's explanation is far-fetched. The real reason for the turnaround is as obvious as it is disgusting: the Prime Minister and the government are now importing IS terrorists because the Left and Radical Left threatened to fire two ministers. Imagine: putting the Danes under a terrorist threat to secure the right of taboo under a few ministers! Then the taste of power has won over all decency. Power also took over when the government in November last year all alone and without a legal basis set out to eradicate the mink industry in Denmark. Why should the mink industry be shut down? Was it because there was a new, dangerous infection among the minks? No, it was gone, it turns out when you made the decision. Was it because the health service would collapse if you didn't kill the mink industry? No, there was obviously no risk of that. The mink industry was laid down because the left wing has been fighting mink breeding in Denmark for years, and here they saw a chance to get their way, and because the government had acquired a taste for more power, more power than popular government. Illnesses have cost somewhere between 15 and 20 billion. kr. and left us with a huge environmental scandal. And you can shake your head, but it's a fact. Who's gonna pay that bill? Of course the Danes do. The same Danes that the prime minister now gives IS terrorists as neighbours. It is not pretty, it is something bad, to say the least, and it confirms to me that it is a really bad idea to leave it to the Left and the Radical Left to dictate the conditions under which the Danes must live. This applies to foreign policy, to economic policy, and to the environment and to the so-called climate policy, where the Left and the Radical Left together insist on calmly dismantling Danish agriculture. Let it therefore today be a call to the government from here: turn your back, not to the Danes, but to the left. Let us set up the public sector with higher quality, but at a lower price, free the employees, show respect for their professionalism. Let us develop Danish agriculture instead of dismantling it and show the same respect for the farmer and his professionalism. It is the farmer who knows how to run agriculture, not politicians, and certainly not left-wing politicians. And let us resolve foreign policy from the bottom up and stop the terrible failure that the government's turnaround is unfortunately an expression of. The Corona Age has been bad to get through. The old and the weak have been at risk, the young have suffered during the decommissioning, the self-employed have lost money, some have lost their life's work, while the politicians in the governing party have let power rise their heads. The Socialist Government is acting as if it believes that the people's regime can thrive in chains and continue its power ride unceasingly, most recently with the totally miserable attempt to move criminal foreigners to Langeland. I hope the Danes don't put up with it. I hope that the Danes will see through the consequences of voting a red majority into the Folketing. I look forward to the day when a majority will vote blue again, and I am delighted, although it may be a little lagged between us in the opposition in formulating the bourgeois alternative. However, as I said at the outset, things are better now than they did last year at this time, simply because bourgeois solutions are only better because, unlike the left, civil solutions can withstand the reality. It'll be easier to get together. All of us in the bourgeois opposition must be familiar with our bourgeoisie. Nature and its values must be preserved, but the farmer is not the enemy of nature, he is a friend and a global climate hero. We must safeguard our culture and heritage and the lasting values, but not throw money out to crazy and pop, nor to an outdated idea that the state should run a large, billion-dollar media house like DR. Together with the bourgeois camp, we must agree that politicians must decide less and that the Danes must decide much more for themselves, including more of their own money. If politicians interfere less, taxes and taxes can be reduced and Danes freedom increased. In short, civil parties must come together to appreciate and strengthen national community and values and not leave it to others to define and legislate for us in our country. And then, of course, we have to solve the immigration policy from scratch, because if we do not, everything else can be equally important, because then the Denmark we love and love disappears. Ladies and gentlemen here in the Folketing: thank you for some good and sometimes sharp debates during the year. I very much appreciate many of you, and I have great respect for the vast majority, even in spite of our differences. Many of the debates I have on video and can see over and over again, but you already know that if you follow New Citizens on Facebook, and I have been able to see that on the comments today and in other debates that you do. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602171701	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602171705	Thank you for that and thank you for a very direct speech where we made a tour de force through New Citizens' Value Policy and attitudes in the field of aliens. However, it is also the case that there is something called an economic policy, and so does New Citizens, and we typically do not talk about that much, so I will try to use my speaking time today to ensure that we get there. It is the case that New Citizens, among others. has proposed to reduce corporate tax to 0 per cent, to reduce interest rate and dividend tax to 25 per cent. and to lower the personal tax to 40%, and that sounds pretty good at first sight. This will mean that most people have an opportunity to just walk up to the Barolo and buy a bigger car, and the starting point I think is really fine. But there's a bill coming here, isn't there? For according to the Ministry of Finance, such a hole in the treasury will mean that you will have to fire the equivalent of 65,000 people in the public sector, and then that Barolo, even though it has gone up a cru, will have an ugly, ugly taste of bis. What are some 65,000 employees we can do without in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602171816	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602171817	Well, let me begin by saying that it is nice to hear a social democrat who actually praises tax cuts, tax cuts, which even the Radical Left today has been out to beat the drum for, that is, that this is necessary in order for us to have the growth and prosperity in Denmark in the future, which will help to finance, on the one hand, a strong core welfare which is publicly funded, and, on the other hand, that we can see our children getting a better prosperity privately than we do today. So thank you for that, and that's welcome. So the question is, where are these people supposed to come from? Clearly, when you have an economic policy that moves some people from the public sector to the private sector, it creates more jobs in the private sector than is being eliminated in the public sector, of course it is because you want more private initiative. And that's against what the government wants. In other words, when we say that we would like to see private institutions, it also means that these people are private employees. Will they be fired? No, they get just a private employer and therefore also shorter between the decisions taken, the consequences of their actions and the responsibility to make them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602171923	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602171924	Social democracy has nothing against tax cuts, certainly not, but it has to be linked, and what the New Citizens are proposing here is not irresponsible. Well, it is when you look at it. It is 65,000 people in the public sector who are not supposed to be there anymore. The rapporteur spoke of respect for the professional skills of public employees. In other words, what is actually being proposed is not respect for the public sector, for the work that is going on there or for their professionalism, because it is being dismantled. You dismantle it and create another society, and I think you should be more honest about that, because that is what will actually be the consequence. However, I think that we should deal with this and give a better and more coherent view of what it is for a public sector you want if you want to change it radically in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172006	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172008	It is quite true that it is a society with a larger private sector and a smaller public sector, because we believe that there are plenty of tasks in the public sector that are better solved in private, because we are not afraid that private people will offer many of the tasks which are financed by tax, but which we think should be financed by a private initiative, that is to say, where it is the individual institutions that are given the freedom to adapt as they want, where the money follows the citizens, and so we can vote with their feet. I know it is quite opposed to what the Social Democratic Party stands for. It is not so long ago that you wanted to dismantle all private day care institutions; you did not quite get away with that, but it's just where we are different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172048	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172053	I actually think I'm going to make an exception and not say thank you for the speech, because I usually look forward to New Citizens' speeches, because I've experienced the party being fairly undogmatic and always come up with such a slightly skewed approach. You might agree with the Prime Minister or with us. And now I really think the speech was most marked by repetitions. The word "blood red" was repeated several times, because it has been discovered that is something people remember. You wanted to use the term break, I don't know how many times. And it's just more of the same. So I just want to say that I'm really a little sad if it's the new style from New Citizen. Then I think the dancers were said very many times, and I don't think anyone in here really has a patent for what the Danes think. I think we can have an idea of what different parts of our population mean, but I really think that the most powerful thing you can do is to make yourself the owner of what all Danes think. So I just want to say that I think it's a rather awkward approach to use the platform in this way and patent what all Danes in this country think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172154	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172155	May I recommend the questioner to revisit my speech and then find out where I take all Danes as income for my opinions. When I say that I hope that the Danes will become wiser, that I hope that the Danes will again vote a blue majority in the Folketing, and that I look forward to that day, it is a hope, and that is because it is the Danes that we are elected on behalf of, and that is who we represent. I think that in here sometimes you forget about it, not least when you come with these strawman arguments. So when we speak of a breach, I am quite sure that it is not in my speech either. I don't usually use that word, and I'd be surprised if it snuck in here. However, I would like to return to my rapporteur's speech. Then I fully agree that if we agree with each other, then let us be honest. That is also why I said at the outset that it sounds good to have a social democratic government that wants to keep IS terrorists out; it sounds good to have a social democratic government that wants more freedom for individual institutions, more respect for professionalism, also in the public sector. But when you do the opposite, you have to pay the price for it, if only in relation to the criticism that you should expect to face. And then it gets a little weird when you talk about these quite obvious scandals... and I hope we all agree that you can't quit a whole profession without legal advice... that you have a prime minister sitting there shaking your head like it wasn't true.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172314	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172316	Now it will be a practical policy, but that is to say, in relation to the exit centre at Langeland, which we opposed, I think the Danes have very different views on that issue. In relation to the handling of mink, which was certainly not pretty, I think the Danes have completely different views on how it was handled. I also believe that the Danes have completely different views on how the Corona crisis has been dealt with. And I would just like to appeal to you not to patent what all Danes think, and I think that is what was done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172346	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172347	Well, the questioner is perfectly entitled to experience it in this way. I have no need to speak on behalf of people who think the opposite of me at all, but I clearly have a wish that the people who voted a red majority in the Folketing vote differently next time. That's perfectly legitimate. And I think all the politicians in here are thinking: it would be better if it were our way, not the others' way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172418	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172421	Thank you, President, and thank the rapporteur for the speech. There's been a change. I remember last year when we were sceptical about the Prime Minister's way of dealing with the Corona crisis, and we were so scolded by Mrs Pernille Vermund, because we could not allow that because the Prime Minister had done so well, and we were too concerned about the process, and I do not know what. I even think a little tear was fucked at some point at a meeting, it was a national meeting or something, because it was so amazing how the Prime Minister behaved. Now I am glad that a slightly more critical attitude has been adopted, because when you have power, it must also be exercised properly and fairly, and so on. But what I really wanted to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund was, of course, economic policy, and Mrs Pernille Vermund knows that we have had some discussions in this Chamber. Earlier this year, Mrs Pernille Vermund has replied to me down here that, among other things, we have been told. would abolish the post-retirement wage, save 9 billion. kr. on early retirement. So I just have a very specific question on behalf of the people who, after all, are still paying for the early retirement scheme, and that is probably 200,000-300,000 Danes: when will stop, if New Citizens succeed in implementing that part of their policy, the early retirement scheme saw the people's ability to go on early retirement, and how do you save 9 billion? kr. There?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172527	Let me start with the first. When we commend the government for doing the right thing at some point, it is quite sincere praise, but when the government does something that we think is wrong, then we criticise. When I yelled at DF and other bourgeois parties last year, it was because you helped give the government the power given to the government. New citizens were the only party to ask for the compensation for Danish companies to be maintained when the epidemic law was amended on 12 March last year. We stood in this Chamber and voted, and we were the only party to vote in favour, and I remember it clearly. We got up, we can see pictures of it. Now the rapporteur is shaking his head, but that is right. When we were then presented with a new epidemic law, there were some of the parties who recognised that they had made a mistake and who made exactly the same mistake again, in other words again voted through an epidemic law which has no compensation for companies. That is why we are critical. We have no problem praising people who are doing the right thing, whether blue or red, but we have a problem praising people or criticising people if we really cannot vouch for that praise or criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172636	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172637	That is simply not true, because that is not what it is about, and that is not what my question was about. After all, the Prime Minister was praised for the PM's handling and it was nothing at all to criticise any parties for voting in favour of an epidemic law. You praised the PM for her handling, you were really happy with it, you were really proud of it. My point was that you go from one extreme to the other. When you hear the rapporteur's speech today, it is certainly the second extreme. But now we are in common to look at the critical aspects of how the government has exercised power, and I am pleased about that. So just a little time for the question, because now it was myself who got it turned onto the other: the 9 billion. kr., you want to save on the after-wage, how to save 9 billion. kr. On the payroll?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172718	It is true that we first praised the government when it acted decisively. When we were faced with a threat that we did not know, it was wise to act, not to sit and wait for evidence, but to act. But when you have evidence, you owe it to the people to lean on that evidence. As far as our economic policy is concerned, we have had discussions on this several times before, and I have also told Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that we are, after all, a small party struggling to produce an economic policy, and I would very much like to present it when it is ready, but I do not want to pull out individual parts now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172753	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172757	Thank you. I'd like to tell you a little story. My grandparents' generation of 1945, of course, cried out traitors for those who had been on the eastern front to fight with the Nazis. But they also did something that was quite unforgivable: they cried out traitors for the women who had fallen in love with German soldiers who were in Denmark, and their children suffered trauma afterwards because it became taboo. They chased the women around the streets, cut them and painted swastikas on them. It was quite obscene. I would like to ask you a question in the light of that. Fortunately, we have discussed it now that it has come from a distance and historians have written about it properly. I would like to ask how Mrs Pernille Vermund knows that the women and children in Syrian camps are criminals or IS terrorists? How do you know that? They've fallen in love and marry someone who probably is when we get it all up. That's why I'm asking, how do you know? Or is it just a claim like what was called the German girls in 1945?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172905	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602172907	I know that there is an age difference between the rapporteur and myself, but when I hear this question, I cannot help thinking that it was a huge gender-discriminatory and sexist issue. This question presupposes thinking that only men can be terrorists and that women join the Islamic State, which, I hope, everything else can be described as a terrorist organisation, is completely innocent. The women haven't done anything, no, no, they just picked the wrong men. Well, listen, we're alive in 2021. If you join an Islamic terrorist organisation, such as the Islamic State, and actively travel to take part in that terrorist work, then you are in my optics and in the optics of the New Citizen's terrorist. What you have done and how you have now contributed to that terror, the courts have to decide. I would prefer that it was courts far away from Denmark and that these people as a starting point had their Danish passports removed or removed and the right to call themselves Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173014	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173016	That's exactly what I was doing. It's about some women and some kids. Whether it's sexist or not, I don't have to decide. I'm asking you these things. But I just want to ask if it's okay that we get a court to decide whether they're criminals or have been criminals or have done something criminal before we call them criminals or terrorists. Well, you can easily throw around with claims that people are some things. I would like us to cherish the principles of the rule of law that you are innocent until you have been convicted. I also thought that it belonged to New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173053	But it is a fact that they have come out, that they have joined the Islamic State, and that they are now in camps for that very reason. It is not the case that they are wandering around Denmark and that we do not know if they have travelled out. They're in the camps now. They do so for a reason, and it is in itself a crime in Denmark. I simply do not think we can afford to deprive these women of their responsibilities. I also find it a little strange that people always talk about women and children, but not about men, as if fathers have a different legal position in Denmark than mothers do. I'm a little puzzled about that. But I guess that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173134	The next question is Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173136	I really want to thank you for your speech. Somehow, I always think it's a pleasure when things are said plainly. Then you know what you have to play the ball up. It is absolutely right that agreement makes sense, so there is no reason for us to agree. On the other hand, I must also say that sometimes I wish I had Mrs Pernille Vermund's head. It probably makes things a little easier to look at in this way, because it is so fairly black and white, and it may also be a little more fun. But there are some things that always fall to my chest. I recognise that I am an internationalist, a globalist, a super-European, and I think it is fantastic that we have conventions, and Mrs Pernille Vermund does not think so. I would therefore like to ask whether Mrs Pernille Vermund is aware that the reason why we have the conventions that we have, after we have been through two world wars, is that very, very large flows of refugees will be prevented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173240-2	We are not opposed to international agreements or conventions, but we believe that when conventions and international agreements are devastating for Denmark, or when a large majority in the Folketing wants to move Denmark in a direction, but are prevented from doing so by international agreements, one must either renounce or terminate those agreements. When we talk about the refugee convention, it was on the backdrop that it was introduced. But it must also be said that if you look back 70 years, I am quite sure, and I will eat my old hat on it, that the people who sat in the early 1950s and took the decisions and signed the refugee convention... it was not something that was adopted here in the Folketing; it was a minister who signed the refugee convention... could not at that time foresee what the world would look like. I would never dream of obliging future generations to live according to conditions that we have set today. I think it is perfectly natural that when the world develops and changes, so does the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173347	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173349	The biggest difference between then and now is that far, far more refugees than at the time are in the neighbourhoods and that internally displaced persons are also in the neighbourhoods. Today it is 88%. of all refugees and internally displaced persons who sit in the neighbourhood, and if all countries also in the neighbourhood did just as Denmark did, so as to outsource their task to Rwanda, or would do just like New Citizens, does Mrs Pernille Vermund not see what migrations it would create and what huge migratory waves it would create around? That would be completely uncontrollable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173428	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173429	In fact, we take the view that if the awful thing were to happen, that there was war in our neighbouring countries, that people had to flee from our neighbouring countries, we would be happy to accept that commitment. The crux of the matter is that there are so many people in the neighbourhood and we maintain an asylum policy that gives the few to the detriment of the many. We have actively chosen to bring some people here, and we spend ten times as much money on that as if we had helped in the neighbourhood. Can the rapporteur himself not see what a failure is being made just to be able to bask in his own goodness?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173505	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173508	Thank you. I do not want to go into clinch with Mrs Pernille Vermund about foreign policy, because I do not think there is any reason at all to discuss this between us parties. But I just have to say to Mrs Pernille Vermund: welcome back to the club with the blue parties. I think it is really, really good that we should be able to get together, and indeed we should also be able to talk about foreign policy. 'Cause I'd like to, like Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl reminded us of the time, which was not long ago, when Mrs Pernille Vermund, at her own national meeting, praised the Prime Minister and touched to tears had actually been handed a kleenex and thanked the Prime Minister of the country for the persistence of foreign policy on behalf of her own and her children. It was amazingly touching; I have to say. I, who otherwise has light to tears, think I just took a deep breath and said: okay, let's see how it goes. And it hasn't gone so well. That is something that has to be noted. But welcome back to the club. I think this is a good thing, because I also think that you should stick together in relation to this very, very important issue • very important issue • and not think that you can just do things in a different direction. I can talk to you about that. But I look forward to good cooperation in the field of foreign policy, perhaps less well in the field of welfare and taxation policy. I think there are others who will discuss that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173624	When I thanked the Prime Minister at the time, it was because the Prime Minister did so by some of these IS terrorists, which, from our perspective, should have been done to everyone: they chose to deprive them of their Danish citizenship. Previous governments have not talked about this. At least they haven't. I would like to commend and acknowledge the government for this, and I really think it is a little strange that you cannot afford to praise anyone, including those you otherwise politically disagree with when they do something good and criticise them when they do something bad. I think that's perfectly natural. Now I haven't been in politics my whole life, but that's what you do outside Christiansborg. When it comes to welcoming me to the club, I would very much like to be at the club with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard in particular on value policy. I am pleased to be welcomed to that club, and I also agree that in economic policy we may not be quite in the same club. And I also find it a little strange that, having had a number of agreements, the Arne agreement, housing agreement, etc., where DF has voted with the Reds, we are talking about the fact that we have to go back to the club, but peace be with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173735	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173737	Now it was specifically the immigration policy that I just concentrated on, which means a great deal to me and the Danish People's Party, and allow me to say: For the Danish people. I'd say that over a broad bank. I think you can afford that. I would just like to return to the second point, because Mrs Pernille Vermund and New Citizens have long announced an overall economic policy plan. And I am equally interested in welfare policy, in a good social policy, in maintaining security in relation to our older people and in ensuring that the basic benefits in Denmark in relation to education, hospital services and older people's policies are tax-financed. I cannot go along with the idea that it should no longer be, and Pernille Vermund must also accept that this is the case with politics. I just really think that should be admitted in New Citizen's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173823	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173823-2	We are not hiding the fact that we have a bourgeois economic policy. And at this point we probably look more like DF, as DF was when Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and other good people founded DF than the way DF is today with the economic policy that is now in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173839	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173843	I would like to return to the economic policy of the new bourgeoisie. I am even very interested in where the money will come from when Denmark is to be turned into a tax havens with a corporation tax rate of 0 and when personal taxes are to be knocked down below 40%. When you look at an answer to a question that has been asked in the Ministry of Finance, you can see that it will in fact strike a small hole in the treasury of 81 billion. kr. Can we not soon get an explanation of where all this money is going to come from to fund the huge billion-hole in the treasury that New Citizen's economic policy is going to beat?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173925	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602173926	It is fun to call Denmark a tax haven in Enhedslisten if we lower Danish taxes and taxes. I am quite sure that Enhedslisten is aware that we are the country in the world with the highest tax burden. We just overtaken France last year. So if we lower taxes, we're from a socialist or communist perspective... I don't quite know how to define oneself in Enhedslisten... a tax haven. I think that sounds a little bit shaggy. When we talk about the financing of our economic policy, I am also very much looking forward to being able to present it, that we are ready with it. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where we have only four seats in the Folketing. This means that in addition to all the legal work we have here and the whole corona management, which we have also had to keep up with and we are really trying to be in the Chamber and do our work thoroughly when we are here, we also need to develop our economic policy. It takes time, and I had also hoped that it would have been possible to do so more quickly, but I promise it will come, and I am not sure that Enhedslisten will be pleased with it when it comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174032	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174034	In other words, if you reduce the corporate tax rate to 0, you are a zero tax country in terms of corporate tax. That's what tax havens do. Then I just think that in New Citizens one must stand by and want Denmark to be a tax haven where companies do not have to pay taxes. I just want you to admit that's what you stand for, instead of going around it. And then I have to say that I actually think it is irresponsible that you can play economic policy with fantasy liards here and there and then do not want to explain where the money should come from. Isn't New Citizens a party that has soon risen so much in the measurements that you can expect a little more than what can just be said on a napkin or as a few words on the New Citizens' website?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174112	I would like the good measurements we have to make, from one day to the next, to move resources into the Folketing and also into our secretariat. Unfortunately, that is not the reality, and it means, as I said before, something for the resources we have we have four people to cover all the rapporteurs that others are substantially more to cover, and the small secretariat to follow, so that we do not make mistakes and we try to do our work thoroughly. It takes longer than I had hoped and thought to get through economic policy and also ensure that it is linked both to the progress we want for Denmark, but also to those who have the most difficulty.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174152	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174157	I will follow up on the question that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asked about the early retirement scheme. It is the case that Mrs Pernille Vermund said earlier in the Chamber that 9 billion should be saved. kr. I would just like to know, in practical terms, how it is intended to be done. Where's that money coming from? What will the scheme be like in the future if there is to be a scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174222	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174224	Well, as I have mentioned a few times, and now it may become a bit monotonous for those who are listening to us, we will be presenting an economic plan, in which we will tell both what taxes and taxes we want to lower and what government bodies or public tasks we want to solve privately in the future, but of course also how we finance it. When it is ready, both Enhedslisten and DF will be able to see the figures measured against each other. I know that we do not agree on this, but the fact that the same question is asked four times during this speech does not make it any faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174304	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174305	No, but you might have thought about it a little bit. In the Chamber here, Mrs Pernille Vermund said that 9 billion would be found. kr. In the case of early retirement, it was a question of stopping access to the early retirement scheme. On the same occasion it was said that 12 billion will be saved. kr. on the su and a number of other things, a total of 110 billion. kr. But I guess it's still in force, so you're still gonna save 9 billion. kr. On the payroll, and you're still gonna save a big amount on the su, or what? Can we count on it to be that way? Let me also just say that it is clear that there are limited resources as a party, but now it is a long time since it has been said in the Chamber. So it is not really too much to ask the citizens to know whether they can count on continuing to pay for their early retirement with security, so that they can be paid early retirement, or not, if, at some point, new citizens are given 90 seats. Surely it is not too much to ask that citizens be told: does the early retirement scheme continue? It's 9 billion. kr. to be saved, or how much?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174412	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174414	Well, we certainly think, and we work hard and much too. I have to say: try and listen, DF has existed for 25 years, and DF has still not presented an economic plan. So, there is no economic plan, there is no finance bill from DF on the current financial legal basis, so when the DF is so quick to get an economic plan from us, it sounds a little hollow. I wish they had said instead: Fair enough, it will come when it comes, and then we will deal with it at that time. And until then, it would be nice if the energy were used to fight for what we, after all, agree on, and hopefully the EU is still doing so, and hopefully it is also on long stretches of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174507	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174511	Thank you, President. I think it is very interesting that after so long a sneaking or running, call it what you want to do 24 months has gone by since Mrs Pernille Vermund came in here, got a good choice, and congratulations on it; the election may be better again next time the election goes down here, i.e. after two years, and says that there will be a good solution tomorrow, and you have to admit that it is quite a declaration of failure. In other words, there is a choice to make tax cuts for 110 billion. kr., and now we're here 24 months later, and then the party leader can't even figure out how to explain the context of saving 12 billion. kr. I think that we should save 50 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. kr. the early retirement scheme. How many amendments did New Citizens make the Finance Act for the year we are in the middle of this? I would like the rapporteur to reply to that: how many amendments to the Finance Act came from New Citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174617	It is true that 24 months is a long time. After all, 25 years is a bit longer. And so, I just have to say that in these 24 months that have passed, I've heard the same question over and over again from DF. It is also true that at this point in time it seems that we now need to be careful what we say that we will have considerably more seats in the Folketing in the next elections. It seems that the strategy we have chosen is very much appreciated by the Danes. It also seems that the energy that DF spends on that, what should you say... I can't say anything here, because now I'm quite nervous because Pia sits next to me in the chair and I'm going to be rebuked. It just doesn't seem like you're on the right track. But I am delighted every time we have these debates, because I can see that every time we have debates where DF spends more time criticizing New Citizens than presenting its own policy, there are just more people joining New Citizens, and we can also look at our social media that we get support. So I just have to say thank you, and yes, 24 months is a long time; 25 years is longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174738	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174740	Well, the reason we ask the questions several times is that we never get answers to the questions we ask. So if the party leader could at least start answering the questions here in the Folketing, we might not have to ask the same questions several times. It is not possible to stand up here in the Folketing and say, on the subject of the Finance Act, that you want to make tax cuts for 110 billion. kr. in the 2021 Finance Act, but that you will not explain where the money is to come from. I ask once again: how many amendments did the party leader, who is now on the floor, put forward, in other words how many amendments were there to the budget law for 2021 from New Citizens? It is not to tease; it is to ask for a factual, sober answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174824	But listen: we have simply never said that we should save 110 billion in the 2021 Finance Act. kr. It has been a 10-year plan from the outset. It was put forward in, I think it was 2017, and was then based on the economic basis and the economic space that was at that time. That is why, when there are new conditions and room for manoeuvre, we need to update the economic plan, and that is not something we do overnight, just as it is not savings that have to be introduced overnight. I understand that DF is afraid if DF believes that from one day to the next you have to save 110 billion. kr., but a 10-year plan doesn't mean you save them the first day. After all, I think that would be just as revolutionary, even though I am a citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174917	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602174922	I think this has become a really exciting debate. That was a good question from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby over here, to whom I sense there has not been a complete answer. And since there is more Question Time, I would like to give Mrs Pernille Vermund another chance. So, how many amendments were made to the Finance Act? And does that really excuse a party? I mean, the mandates in here don't matter, no matter how many people there are in your group. You cannot come and say that because you are fewer in a party group than in some others, it is so little less important that there are teams in the tickets; then you do not need to have a proposal that is linked or could explain your policy; then you must stand up and promise the Danes that you can give them tax concessions for 110 billion. kr. But it doesn't matter where that money should be taken from. It has to come another time because we're not that big. Well, Mrs. Pernille Vermund doesn't even hear it. There's gotta be some kind of connection in things. Pernille Vermund Hov, can you fucking say? ) Yes, you may, for it is a term of power. That's not a swear word. Actually, I think it's a little bit of time. We must always listen to the fact that we spend too much money and that it is economically irresponsible, but one could start by explaining one's own policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175040	Thank you. And no, you can't use swear words. You can't use what you call scam words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175045	That is what we can do and, as I explained earlier, the economic policy that we have put forward so far has been put forward in 2017 and that is why I cannot stand by the years that have elapsed in the meantime and the economic situation that we have today, and then say that the figures are voting one by one. To convert or to calculate a proposal where it is said that the main aim is for Denmark to become richer, that the Danes should be allowed to decide more, also over more of their own money, that we should not raise taxes, but lower taxes, that we should have more private initiative, and that the public sector should be smaller, is the main objective. In relation to the calculation that lies in it, that is quite logical. Well, for me, that's perfectly logical. Go downstairs and look at the secretariat. I bet not only the government but also the Social Democratic Party have significantly more employees to sit and do such a low-practical job. There's an entire civil service in the government. So, of course, it's harder and takes longer when you're few than when you're many.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175157	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175159	The piano just doesn't play that way. That's too easy. I think we owe it to ourselves, before we meet again, to have a little more control over the policy on which we would like to put ourselves forward and market ourselves, so that there is a connection and one can argue for it. They say 2017 and that is the argument that it is old. But even at the 2017 premises how would you save the 81 billion? kr. After returning, the 65,000 civil servants, as Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen mentioned a moment ago? Then who was it in 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175244	Firstly, we do not owe anything to the Social Democratic Party. It is not we who have the power of government. It is the Social Democratic Party that has the power of government and owes something to the Danes. Compared to who it was in the original plan, I have also said earlier that the plan, which dates from 2017, increased the number of private jobs by approx. 100,000. Then there was a reduction in the number of public jobs, and that means itself, when you think that more of the tasks that are being solved today in the public sector have to be solved privately, among other things. in private institutions where the money follows the citizens. It is not the case that the educator becomes unemployed and there will be no fewer children to look after, but the teacher's employer will become a private institution, and so hopefully the teacher will have working conditions, as we see in the private institutions, both in the area of children, the elderly and elsewhere, which means that there is not as far as there is today, between the decisions being taken and the consequences for his or her work and, above all, for the service to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175348	Thank you. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175352	Thanks for the speech. I could understand that we are getting closer in the blue block, and that leads me to ask about the Prime Minister's candidate for New Citizens. For the only thing we know now in relation to the leveling of party leaders was when Mrs Pernille Vermund said that it was better to vote for Rasmus Paludan than for the current Prime Minister. Now there are many possibilities in the blue block, so there are probably twice as many opportunities as there are listeners to Radio LOUD, so I would really like to ask: who is Mrs Pernille Vermund's Prime Minister's candidate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175420	Well, we have said from the beginning that our prime minister candidate is the bourgeois prime minister candidate who wants to solve foreign policy from the bottom up. This means that a new asylum system must be introduced, which means a stop to spontaneous asylum in Denmark, that foreigners in Denmark must support themselves and that criminal foreigners must be deported consistently and after the first sentence. Whoever will fulfill those wishes, the masters of the first row must, in a sense, fight about themselves. It is not important to me who sits in the ministerial cars; it is important to me that we resolve the problems. I asked Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. And the answer from Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, as I remember, was something like: I still think the same thing today as I meant and said this summer. That's how I remember it. If I quote wrong, I'd say it's free from memory.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175527	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175529	Okay, that wasn't a very clear answer. If Mrs Pernille Vermund asked me about it and I said that I cannot say that right now, yes, it would not be very career-promoting for me, but I would also think: who can it not be? So, we have both the Christian Democrats and probably a Lars Løkke party on our way. Are there any of them that it couldn't be? Could it in principle be all in the blue block, or is there anyone that Mrs Pernille Vermund would exclude as Prime Minister's candidate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175553	No, we do not rule out any bourgeois prime minister candidate who wants to solve foreign policy from the bottom up. And we don't, because it's the most important thing for us. So it is simply so crucial for us that what we have been talking about for decades; that what has been promised to the Danes for decades is actually being acted upon. That is why we began by commending the Social Democrats, in other words because some of these things were tackled, at least in words. We lack some action on the asylum freeze, and we also lack some action on the benefits. Hopefully something will come, and if it does, then it's good. And I really believe that the Blue Block agrees on that. That is why we are voting in favour of the proposal for asylum policy. So, we agree that if you solve these problems, it is simply a good step on the way. But for us it is crucial that it is done now and that it is not something we keep pushing ahead of us, which has been getting away with for too many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175651	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175654	Thank you. Frankly, when you put forward a policy that says you want to save 110 billion. kr. We must be able to explain and defend how and how it is to be distributed, how it affects our care for the elderly, how it affects people with disabilities, that is, our entire welfare system, which is also built on our tax system. New citizens cannot explain that from the platform today, nor would New Citizens respond to what my colleague Hans Kristian Skibby asked about an amendment to the Finance Act. I haven't heard that the answer came. What was the answer? You mean, you want to save on the payroll? The rapporteur must explain this. After all, something that the President of the new citizen must learn when he comes into politics is that when he says some things in politics, he has to stand up for it, and it is not about being after the new citizen. But that is the way it is in all the parties of the Folketing, that is, of course, that you raise some questions if there is something that puzzles you. The President of the new citizens must then be able to explain here from the platform: how and how is it with the 110 billion? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175755-2	Now I do not know whether the rapporteur has entered the debate afterwards, but as I say, what we have presented in 2017 is where the targets are still the same. Whether we land at 110, 120, or 100 billion. kr., I can't say yet, but what we presented in 2017 was funded one by one, and for me it just doesn't make much sense to stand and talk about those figures today. Because if I say that we can save so much and so much in one place and the other, some people will quickly sit and say: The rotting room is not at all as you say. No, it is not, because these were 2017 figures, and that is also why when we have to update our economic policy today, the targets are still the same, so that we need an economic policy that makes the Danes richer and freer, that we need a society where we have bourgeois reforms, which, yes, make the public sector smaller, but which also increases the private sector, because we believe that private initiative is better. And when it's rained through, I promise I promise that Mrs. Karina Adsbøl and DF, and who else has asked about it today, can have a tour of it, and I would very much like to explain it further. But I don't think it makes sense to stand here and have to deal with 2017 figures, which obviously for good reasons can't be used today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175920	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602175921	Mrs Pernille Vermund, you are still not answering the question that has been raised in relation to the amendment to the Finance Act. That's one thing. The second point is that when you want to make savings and tax cuts for 110 billion, you want to make savings. kr., then have to explain where the money is to be taken. The rapporteur must be able to tell us here from the platform what the economic policy of the new citizens is like. How many elderly people need care and care? How many people with disabilities should not receive the assistance to which they are entitled under the legislation? Well, you have to be able to explain that from the platform when you want to make so many tax cuts. It is not because you can have something against tax cuts, but there must be money to provide good public welfare, and then it is not about private or public. But it is a question of quality and quality in the service you provide to people, whether public or private.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180009	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180010	Well, that's exactly what I'm saying, that is, the 110 billion. kr. and the economic plan to which the rapporteur refers is a plan that has been financed one by one in 2017 when it was presented, but that funding would of course not last today because much has happened since then. On the one hand, we have had a corona crisis which has ate into the room for manoeuvre and, on the other hand, we have had a Social Democratic government which, together with DF, has introduced an Arne pension which reduces employment, and a number of tax incentives have been introduced, which must also be included in this equation. So you can't take the 2017 funding and just transfer it to present numbers. In other words, it would simply be irresponsible, and I really wish that we had our financial plan ready, that we had gone further with it and I look forward to it being presented, but we just are not, and that is unfortunately the case for a small party with only four mandates and the secretariat that is now coming with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180116	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180118	Thank you. I understand it is irresponsible to ask about the economic policy of New Citizens. I understand it is irresponsible to ask how New Citizens will fund everything they have presented and voted in favour of. It is not quite irresponsible or unreasonable to expect a party in the Folketing to ask what is really the economic policy of New Citizens. Then it will be something about 2017 figures etc. Then why don't we just ask, how are these 110 billion? kr. Is it real? How are they to be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180202	It is certainly not irresponsible to ask about the economic policy of New Citizens, but it seems a little irresponsible to ask the same question four times and then expect another answer, that is to say to expect that while we are standing here, my secretariat will come up and say: Now we are sort of finished, now we have something that we can present that is finished. We have the derived effects of A, B and C in relation to the economic premise that is today, rather than when we presented it in 2017. If we turn back time, if that is what you want, if you want to talk about what the situation was in 2017, then that is a different situation. But again, if I have to stand here and relate to an economic situation in 2017, it will be such a somewhat backward-looking discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180250	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180252	I simply did not understand the answer, in other words, in relation to what I asked. How will New Citizens finance the 110 billion? kr.? Then I understand that it was a presentation that was made back in 2017. But it is not the case that time has stood still for new citizens; a lot of things have been voted for since then. It is not quite unreasonable to ask that question to a party leader of a party in the Folketing. What is New Citizens' Economic Policy? How are we going to finance what we are voting for, what we have presented? I have noticed that it will cost 65,000 civil servants. There are other parties in here who have noticed various elements. Can it really be that New Citizens do not have an economic policy that one can explain quite simply from the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180340	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180341	No, we have an economic policy that can be explained. Our economic policy is that the public sector must be smaller and the private sector must be larger. It is that taxes should be reduced. It is that we must have fewer laws and regulations, which will also have a bearing on how much time and profits there will be, both in the private sector and in the public sector. So that is the basis of our economic policy. The objective is, of course, that the Danes should become richer and freer and not, as has been the consequence of the last two years' Finance Act, a situation in which the Danes have been given less room for manoeuvre. I guess we're just different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180427	Thank you. Then these are the last questions to Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180434	Thank you. I just need to get something straight. I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund's difficulty in presenting an economic policy, but I would like to go back to the question raised by my colleague Mr Vermund. Christian Rabjerg Madsen asked, and as Mr. Rune Lund asked. It is clear from the calculations that 81 billion will be missing. kr. to be found in the budgets with the economic policy that New Citizens may have. You have so little doubt about it now. But after all, New Citizens have given us some funding. Some of the funding that needs to be found is, among other things, one of the things that needs to be done. 20 billion DKr, which is to be achieved by Denmark leaving the EU. Now I just have my doubts, because is this not something that New Citizens are firmly committed to, in other words, that we should get out of the European Union? I believe that 20 million is a lame one too, but if there is uncertainty about economic policy, is there also uncertainty about the European Union? Danish companies earn 164.7 billion. kr. in the single market, which corresponds to 6.2 per cent per year. of Denmark's gross national income. So I just need to clarify something here: does Mrs Pernille Vermund think that it would be wise to continue to leave the EU's internal market, is it still a part of economic policy to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180552	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180553	Our economic policy has not changed, but of course the calculations need to be updated every year, just as a government presents a draft budget every year, and once the Finance Act has entered into force, there is a new situation, a new reality. That's why you recalculate every year. When we talk about our EU policy, I would say that we want to leave the European Union, but we do not want to leave the internal market. And when we talk about what Danish companies earn within the European Union, I think it is worth noting that there are countries in Europe that are not members of the European Union that are doing quite well, countries that even have more cooperation agreements and trade agreements in the world on the new markets than the EU countries have. I also think it is worth noting that the European Union is one of the economic regions which has had the lowest economic growth in the last 10 years, and this is simply because we are in a community with some people who think quite differently in terms of economic policy and the whole idea of how to deal with each other. We went in with Great Britain, with which we are thinking quite equally on that point, and now we are left with Eastern Europe and southern Europe, which, in some respects, is very different from what we are in relation to free trade and trade traditions, and this is helping to weaken the European Union and also Denmark from our perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180722	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180723	Thank you. I do not know whether I fully understood the answer either, but I understand that Mrs Pernille Vermund still wants to leave the European Union and the internal market. Pernille Vermund No! ) I just need to make sure, because I think that there are a lot of Danes out there watching and who would like to hear New Citizens' policy, that Mrs Pernille Vermund really believes that Danish economy and Danish business have an interest in stepping out of the internal market and out of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180753	I can hear that the rapporteur did not understand or perhaps had not quite heard what was said. We want to get out of the European Union, but we do not want to get out of the internal market, and we believe that when we look at the European countries which are not part of the European Union but which, after all, have a lot, both cooperation and also agreements with the European Union and with countries outside the world, we can say with reasonable serenity that we can be a European country with our trade traditions and do very well, especially at a time when the markets are developing extremely quickly and, in fact, the European Union is a little slow to conclude these free trade agreements, where we can see that the European countries that are not part of the European Union are more advanced with the benefits it now has. So no to the European Union, but yes to plenty of free trade, including with the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602180851	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for the rapporteur. I have to postpone the sitting until 8:00. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602185959	The sitting is resumed. We are continuing with the rapporteur's line, and it has now become the turn of the Liberal Alliance to get on the platform. Welcome to the Chairman of the Liberal Alliance, sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602190015	It's like being at a group meeting in the Liberal Alliance it's amazing; there's a nice view. And there is also the good news that Denmark is on its way out of the corona crisis. Now we must move on from the extreme precautionary principle, which keeps the Danes in pointless restrictions. We must move on from bans, injunctions and controls and further towards freedom and normal everyday life. I think we can agree on that in this small, narrow majority in here. The Corona has revealed how dependent we are on each other, how lonely we become, when the state forces us to live in each of our bubbles, and how frustrated we become when we rely on aid packages rather than being able to do what we do best. My feeling is that the Prime Minister believes that the Corona crisis has also shown the value of a strong state, the value of political will. I actually believe that the corona crisis has shown us how little the state really can do when it comes to the matter. Yeah, it's been easy for the state and the prime minister to shut down society, but come on, it's hard to open society again. And yes, it has been easy for the state to combat infection at almost any cost, but by doing so we have also fought happiness, joy, spontaneity, humanity and fellowship. The Corona has shown that we need to restrain the state and the Prime Minister's power and what can happen when we don't. So now we want to move on. In the Liberal Alliance it is not just the Corona crisis that we want to move on from; we want to move on yet. In the Denmark I dream of, but not the Denmark you know, there will be more who have the courage and the desire and the will to jump out as an independent and entrepreneur. In the Denmark I dream of, but not in the Denmark you know, we respect and value and celebrate the self-employed for their zeal and initiative. In the Denmark I dream of, but not in the Denmark you know, we have replaced envy, equality, standing and high taxes with magnanimity, optimism, progress and lower taxes. There may be some in here who think that the Liberal Alliance is like such a bad playlist, where there is only one number running in repeat, and the number is •Lavere taxes • with dj Vanopslagh. And I have to admit that lower taxes are the time we spend working to pay taxes, and that's still about half the time we don't get back. It is at the expense of family, communities and communities of all kinds. That is why the decent question is: is it really worth taking people's time for every penny we spend in the public sector? And that is why Liberal Alliance is needed, because no one else seems particularly interested in spending less of people's time. And the way to good society is to give time back to the citizens and thus to each other. But admitted, the good society is not only about lower taxes • it is also about good welfare, about good education, and here we in Denmark suffer particularly from system policy that has failed. One of the population groups most affected by failed system policy is the children. It is not my child, it is not the Prime Minister's children, it is not Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's children either, because they are all going to go to a free school, but they are the children who attend primary school. Politically, we have made primary school worse, especially with the recent reform of primary school. The most recent evaluation shows that children have never been more upset about going to school than they are today and that they have, moreover, become worse at the professions than they were before the reform. The purpose of the school should therefore be to provide children and young people with the necessary education, skills and knowledge to be able to do well. This could happen, we believe, on the basis of some mandatory learning content, a national curriculum, so to speak, which defines the most important knowledge and skills in each subject, which we have to pass on from generation to generation and which is the foundation stone of being a formed human being, and then give schools a hundred percent freedom to how they teach. But in Denmark we have chosen the opposite. We have politically created, with open eyes, a primary school that is managed according to learning objectives, that is, after students have to learn to learn. They must have skills such as being adaptable, innovative, creative, communicative and self-reliant rather than having concrete knowledge and skills. And in this way we have politically emptied the public school of opinion, of content and of professionalism. The Prime Minister says that the primary school is dominated by abstract over-academic school methods, and the Prime Minister is right. We have to do something about that. And we must do something about what is particularly central in primary school: responsibility for own learning, that is, it is the pupils' own responsibility to find out what they do not know and what to learn, because in practice this means that when the children get professionally behind, it is their own responsibility. It borders on the evil. And in it lies the true performance culture, which causes a lot of young people and children to go down with stress and anxiety. Because it hits children hard if they stand alone with responsibility for their professional challenges. It's a tragedy. Let's turn the roles around. It must be the teacher's responsibility to teach the children. The teacher should not be a coach, but rather a professional authority. And we should also consider university-based teacher training to raise the quality and prestige of teaching. This policy, too, is at the root of the challenge that we are not talking about so much in here, but which I believe will be the main focus of policy in the years to come, namely that people are not satisfied with the welfare and level of service that the system can produce. Maintaining the same level of welfare is becoming more and more expensive, but expectations of welfare are rising and rising. We see this in many parts of the public sector, but we see it in particular in the area of care for the elderly, where services do not match people's legitimate expectations and where people's expectations are rising. That challenge will only increase. Modern people will not put up with the scraped service that the system can provide today. And it is not a challenge that can be solved with higher taxes; it is not a challenge that can be solved by allowing the public sector to run a little further on the clock; nor is it a challenge that can be solved by maintaining the public monopoly on services. Something new needs to be done, and here I will be inspired by a social democrat in relation to the welfare society of the future. The Socialist has described it this way: version 2.0 of the welfare society saves more, assures itself and pays for the services you want beyond the welfare provided by the public sector. In other words, the old welfare state was 100 percent tax financed, and the providers of services were public institutions. In the new version it is more private but jointly funded through compulsory savings schemes. The wise Social Democrat is Torben Möger Pedersen. He is director of PensionDanmark, a pension fund for many of the lowest paid in Denmark. And he is, of course, right in sketching out what the welfare society of the future might look like. He outlines a better quality welfare society, more self-determination and more sustainable but still solidarity funding. In the Soviet Union it was sexy with five-year plans. I understand that the Prime Minister is working on ten-year plans, and they will also include reforms of the welfare society, in particular the reforms to ensure the future of the welfare society in relation to the challenge I have been talking about this evening. In the Liberal Alliance, we have proposed the creation of a welfare account for all Danes, where each month they can pay tax-free money which they can then spend on additional welfare benefits when they retire and receive an additional care requirement. There are several studies that show that what actually creates the greatest insecurity among the Danes is the fear that there is no welfare system available to them when they grow old. That is how we need to move on from a heavy and rigid public sector that creates insecurity for the elderly and consumes more and more resources without providing the services that it offers in the perspective of and further towards a responsible society with the citizen at the centre, including the elderly, with more welfare on the basis of the citizens and less well-being on the basis of the system. There will probably be lots of parties and voices in here who believe that in the future the challenges we face can be solved with more of what has helped to create the problems, i.e. higher costs, more system, more governance, more control, more regulation, more policy, more public sector and less responsibility, less freedom, less civil society, less private initiative and less focus on the citizen. In the Liberal Alliance, we say the opposite. We say that the solution is less system, less governance, less control, less regulation, less politics, less public sector, but much more freedom, more responsibility, more private initiative, more civil society and more focus on the citizen. Yes, we need to move on first to your questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602190939	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. There are a number of brief comments to the President of the LA, and that is first a question from the Social Democrats by Mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602190950	Thank you. I just want to sign for the part of the speech that was about the school and about the problems with it with responsibility for own learning, and how it risks putting too many people on the platform and creating an excessive inequality. So thank you for brave and, I think, insightful words... maybe right up until that discussion about teacher training and whether it should be at the university, but leave it at that. I really want to address another issue: how we have dealt with the crisis. A year ago, Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, that we should be careful that the corona bill wasn't too big and that there weren't too few to pay it. I think that one year later, we are in a situation where Denmark has done very well both in terms of health and economics in comparison with many other countries. So was the President of the Liberal Alliance really wrong last year when he warned against the crisis policy we have pursued in Denmark? So, was it simply wise for us to do what we did, even though the President was afraid of it at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191052	Let me start by signing for the nice words in relation to school policy. Basically, it is a misguided pedagogy, and we have left it for far too long, and if it is something we can tackle together in this Parliament, I think it is good. I think there is a growing understanding that the reform of primary schools has failed. All we have to do is avoid making another mistake. That goes without saying. It's such a generic phrase that you can pull out of a vending machine, but nevertheless, I really think we need to learn something from the way we run the school. There must be less focus on skills and more focus on skills. Then there is the whole discussion about the crisis in Denmark. I have some doubts about what is being referred to. Is it too extensive aid packages, or is it generally decommissioning and the like of Denmark? But I sensed a nod in relation to the aid packages. Well, I think it's a balance. The fact that there have been aid packages in Denmark has helped save some jobs, and it has also helped to compensate self-employed people who have been forced to have their business closed down. But the aid packages have also helped to create a distortion. There have also been aid packages for people who have not been particularly affected by corona, and there has been too generous an approach to aid packages. So I think we could have found a better balance. This does not mean that we are facing an economic abyss; it means that we have wasted some money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191207	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191208	I'm gonna look forward to dealing with this school thing. But when I ask about the aid packages, it is actually because they had the impression that the Liberal Alliance thought it was too generous that too much was left behind and that this was not the way to do it. That is why I just want to ask: now that the Danish Business Tore Stramer has said that the corona crisis has by no means left a bill to be paid, in terms of increasing taxes or lower public spending, does the Liberal Alliance agree that this is the way it is? We have not ended up with a bigger bill because of the crisis management we have had, perhaps quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191246	It is true that many of the costs we have incurred during the corona crisis are one-off costs. It's a debt issue. So there's a bill? Yes, but we have a healthy economy in Denmark thanks to special bourgeois reforms, but not only, and that means that we can take these loans at a low interest rate and pay them out of over many years. So is it something that is going to revolutionize Danish politics? No, I don't think so. So it would be wrong to claim that the bill itself overturns the Danish economy. It is more the low growth that is a problem, and that is what we seem to be looking for. So that's great.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191314	The next brief remark is to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191318	Thank you, and thank you for a very, very good speech and also recently to set a direction, a clear, clear liberal direction, with what I really in the most positive sense understand as liberal. There has to be much more room for self-employed, authoritative people. I also hear that in the speech responsible citizens and less room for state and system and things that just hinder us. I am very much in agreement and very inspired. This applies both to the words about the school and to what we need to do with our economy, and, moreover, to the higher quality that is then also necessary to invest in, for example. In the course of the training, it is precisely the skills which must be used to carry it out. So I very much agree with that. Well, that's probably why, sir. Alex Vanopslagh has to just beat a few crosses for him and say that it's not just about being a drifter in putting the treasure down. For us Radicals, it is not just about foreign policy either. Sometimes I have to beat seven crosses for me too. But it is actually about something fundamental liberal, namely about Danish citizens who marry foreigners and cannot live in Denmark. Will the Liberal Alliance take a look at this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191450	Let me start with the last one first. The answer is yes to Danish citizens, but we will not make it easier to have family reunification as a refugee. In relation to the rules that stand in the way of getting your wife or husband up here, even if you can support yourself, we believe that we should look at making it easier, especially for Danish citizens. So there we have a common cause, and I also hope that we can have a common cause in relation to responsible citizens, for that is the prerequisite for freedom, as I see it. That is the prerequisite for meaningful life. And it may also be an answer to many of the • what should you say existential challenges that affect not just children and young people, but our society at all. That is where I think education is an important part of the answer, and that is where I think we, as a society, have been too focused on such a sense of liberation, to put it bluntly. And maybe the same is true in primary school. So I hope that's something we can share.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191540	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191541	Perhaps this is more of a liberation of professional skills and a little less of a policy, as I heard the rapporteur. I very much agree with that, but I am also pleased with the announcement and that is why I said it with the seven crosses. Because this isn't about refugees, and that's not what I asked. So we don't have to discuss it. It is about Danish citizens who cannot fall in love with and marry a foreigner and live in their own country, even if they support themselves 100%. If we could allow the liberal thought to spread a little, including to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's friends, perhaps we could actually have more independent, authoritative citizens and the opportunity to be so in one's own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191626	I quite agree. I think that earlier, when I received praise from Sofie Carsten Nielsen's party, I was a little scared and thought: Oh, no, am I now seen as a closet radical? But I do feel a bit like I think that immigration policy should be strict. I have always belonged to the tighter wing of my own party, but we also have to be able to find some nuances, and this is true in relation to being able to get our spouse here, and this is true in relation to foreign labour, where it is also perfectly obvious to say that for people who can support themselves, probably often from other Western countries, but also from non-western countries north of the Middle East, we should just give it gas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191659	The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191702	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Now, at least in the past, the Liberal Alliance has been in favour of a model of civil pay, and in this respect, cash aid without counterclaim is a bit of a stepping stone. In other words, the release of people into the social security system and the cessation of coercion and control and the introduction of confidence instead. It has been done in several attempts around the world, and it turns out that those for whom coercion and control are abolished seek just as much work and find just as much work marginally more than those under an employment system and under coercion and control. Plus that they get much better, which has some health savings. Would the rapporteur be prepared to discuss and perhaps support the attempt to provide cash aid without counterclaims?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191756	Well, I think, sir. Torsten Gejl confuses the Liberal Alliance with another party. 'Cause we're not in favour of bourgeois pay, and I'm laughing a little bit and looking down at mr. Ole Birk Olesen, because I know that he will certainly be thundering against it if I argued for it at a group meeting. However, in relation to the basic ideas of finding the right balance in the employment system, so that it is not just a system that talks down to people and meets people with mistrust and sanctions, and that whoever has to help is also the one to punish: the dual role I see as inappropriate, and I think we can get a lot more out of the many billions we spend at job centres, also with more confidence and by meeting the unemployed at eye level. So maybe we can find some common denominators anyway. I don't think it's gonna be a citizen's salary. At any rate, it must be an incredibly low bourgeois salary, so that a great deal of money is saved on public transfers as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191845	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191846	Well, that's how it was when the Liberal Alliance and I joined the Folketing and were ready to discuss the bourgeois salary. That is also why there was a very long way to go between the alternative and the Liberal Alliance, at least in the movement. But I am glad to hear that the rapporteur is ready to try to experiment with whether, when they use their free will, people are starting to say yes instead of saying no, and whether we could really get more out of people if we set them free and let them seek happiness, including in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191915	I need to be careful. In other words, I was about to declare that I had a common cause on foreign policy with the Radical Left, and if I say that I have a common cause with the alternative to employment policy, I am not sure that I can remain chairman of my party. But I think that introducing more confidence into the employment system would be beneficial to all parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191934	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602191938	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. It's like eating a cheeseburger; it's very delicious when you put your teeth in it, but it doesn't last long. I think, sir. Alex Vanopslagh can recall his own speech from LA's national meeting, which, incidentally, I thought was excellent, and when I take that quotation, it is of course because I think that LA has a very great honour to try to set a liberal agenda, and yet one goes along with decisions in the bourgeois bloc, where a foreigner always gets in the way of unleashing freedom. Whether it is with municipalities or schools, or whatever, we are constantly biting some of the freedoms and freedoms in our society because we are so afraid of what comes from outside, and I regret to say that LA has too much to do with that agenda. Will the Liberal Alliance help to set a genuine civil-liberal agenda and then try to take a little bit of a look from the agenda of fear that characterizes bourgeois-liberal Denmark too much?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192104	I've always felt a little mixed up with half-studed robbers like Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde, who is such a semi-citizen and must come and lecture me about what it means to be a citizen. So I always pull a little bit on the smile tape. I don't know what concrete decisions it is, sir. Jens Rohde is talking about, but I just have to say that the unfortunate thing about unregulated immigration is that it provides an over-regulated society, and that is the situation we are in in Denmark, as we have taken far too many immigrants into the last 30-40 years. And now we are trying to solve the problems, and we are doing this by regulating society too much, by regulating dress and everything else. But it is a consequence of unregulated immigration, and it is a difficult balance and you have to find the balance. By the way, thank you for the praise in relation to the speech. The quote was from last year's National Assemblyals, but nevertheless it was also a part that I was pleased with. This cheeseburger thing was an analogy with identity policy, that is to say you can find a short meaning and joy in life by being identity policy-oriented. But in the long run it is like a cheeseburger, that is, a fast food community. That's where I think sir. Jens Rohde and I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192202	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192203	Now, sir. Alex Vanopslagh calls me what he wants. However, I have been involved for a very, very many years with the President of LA, so I might know a little about how that fluid modernity actually affects the political level, and I would just ask the Liberal Alliance to dare to set the free agenda. I do not know anyone who is in favour of unregulated immigration. Who's doing this? What is this strawman argument? Because nobody does. I do not know any party in favour of unregulated immigration. So why don't we just drop it and try to see what it really is that can set this society free?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192247	It is just to clarify: I do not claim that Mr. Jens Rohde or others in here, perhaps in addition to the Free Greens, are in favour of unregulated immigration. However, we have had unregulated immigration to Denmark for many years, and the problems that this has led to are trying to solve with an over-regulated society, and that is a difficult balance. I mean, I don't like burka bans, handshake laws and all kinds of symbolism policy. However, I have to say that what can be called uliberal measures, such as the forced closure of ghettos in relation to general housing and such things, is a good solution because it is a problem that needs to be resolved. You cannot simply wear ideological blinds and say that you do not want to use the necessary tools. But it is a balance, and I agree with finding a better balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192329	The next brief remark is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192333	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very good speech, especially the part about time I thought was uplifting. I myself am an old union chairman and have often considered whether we could not talk a little more about leisure time than we are talking about working time. Because we are all concerned that people have to work more and more, but we often do so for leisure time. That is why it also sounds hollow when the Liberal Alliance keeps saying that we need to get the treasure down because we need more time. Because when we put the treasure down, it also goes beyond the teacher's time... the teacher's time to teach our children properly, so that the teaching doesn't hang on to parents who actually don't manage the task... or for that matter in my time, when it's the case that I have to take over a lot of tasks for my parents, because home care has been cut too much. So every time we cut very much on welfare, it will have consequences for something else, precisely the time that I agree with the rapporteur that we need more of. Isn't that a paradox, and is it even connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192445	It's this old song that if you lower the tax, you have to slaughter half of the welfare state and you have to slaughter the most important parts of the welfare state. American politics has such a principle as the firemen first principle. This means that every time savings are made, it is the firemen that are cut away to show that the public sector cannot be cut. At home, it's just nurses and schoolteachers. We're spending 1,000 billion dollars. kr. Total in public expenditure, 500 billion. kr. in the public sector. There is plenty of pseudowork, there are plenty of academics who increase the number of journalists employed in the municipalities. So you can save some money in public without cutting core welfare. So I don't buy the premise. I think it's a little silly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192525	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192526	Nevertheless, that is what has happened. Although I think we could agree that it might make sense also to look at whether you have come to spend too much money on bureaucracy • I can also think of some places where you could use resources more sensibly and directly on several welfare tasks • that is not actually what is happening. Isn't that what we have to do first? The fact is that we have cut and cut, as demographic developments actually mean that there will be more and more elderly people and that more and more people will need hospital care. And there are fewer people to take care of them. This means, in fact, that the care of the elderly has been cut so much that relatives will have to be helped in order to be able to solve the tasks in the care of the elderly in a justly dignified way. And it's time that goes from families, it's time that goes from having fun in the families.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192616	There has never been as much money in the public sector as there is today. So there is no lack of money in the public sector. But it may be that some of the money is misplaced. If I am going to respond slightly to the rapporteur, I would say that where I believe civil politicians can be challenged in the future is in relation to the challenge that I described in the speech, namely that expectations of welfare are rising. This also means that citizens will demand more. Does this mean that we need to spend more money on welfare? Yes, I believe that this should be done through savings schemes, by people taking greater responsibility, by thinking new things about welfare and by giving different priorities. But it may well be that in the area of the elderly, more money is needed over the years, but then we have to find the money in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192654	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192659	Thank you so much. If we had not had free access to the higher education institutions and, for that matter, the high schools, my sister, my younger brother and I would never have gotten an education. I have gone back seven generations and no one, even during the most market-driven economies, has received more than seven years of schooling. I was the first to go to high school, and my father thought it was a very brave decision, because it cost me three years longer at home instead of sending me out to work. He couldn't find any more room. He worked his whole life. He didn't take a vacation until he was 65, because that wasn't worth it. My mother had time to die before they left for the first time. And there I would say who is fighting for more system, more control, more control and more coercion? I don't know. At least no socialists are doing this, because we have just said that the freedom of the individual lies precisely in good communities, in good societies, in good welfare societies, where we can all have a chance to get an education and where we can all have a chance to go to the hospital or go to university if it is that we are skilled enough for it. Who will pay for climate action, including the global one? Who's gonna pay for development aid, or are we gonna close those boxes? Surely we have to say that there is something that cannot take care of itself in a profit-driven, or apologise, market-controlled society that sounds nicer to liberals. There are activities that need to be done and that cannot in themselves run around. Who's gonna pay them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192836	That, sir. Christian Juhl describes the benefits of our becoming a more prosperous society, and that is why it is so unhappy that there are socialists in this country who want to make Denmark a less prosperous society. It is with higher taxes, and higher taxes are control, and it is coercion. So, that Mr. Christian Juhl stands up and says that socialism is almost the reason why we have become a more prosperous society and that it does not involve any element of coercion and control, is a joke at best. In the worst case scenario, it's a sign of historylessness, and I don't think so, sir. Christian Juhl will boast.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192911	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192912	Now I am trying to tell my own family's history, and it has been under pure market economy that both my grandparents, great-grandparents and so on. I've lived. There was no room for the lowest class in the country to get an education. They could just order something. And there is what I think that society is also creating now: an underclass that is growing, because the market economy needs to give more and more room for work-free income and give less and less space to those who are doing honest work. That is, of course, the bias in the policy of the Liberal Alliance. It sneaks in everywhere and creates a hugely crooked Denmark. It has never been as crooked in my lifetime, economically as it is at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602192957	I find it worrying that there are a few Social Democrats who are nodding on it, Mr President. Christian Juhl says. So it is thanks to capitalism that we have become so prosperous over the last few decades: that there is money for education, that we do not have to work constantly and 24-7, and that we have so much free time. That is because we have become more prosperous, and that is why we have a large public sector. It's because we can afford it. It is not the other way around, and social democrats should understand this, that is to say the balance between the public sector and the market economy. So I think it's worrying if you think that mr. Christian Juhl has reached any end that may be long.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602193034	That's how body language can be hard to read. The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602193040	Thank you. I can assure my good friend, sir. Alex Vanopslagh and say that when the Socialists criticize you, you are usually on the right path. So everything's gonna be okay. I would like to talk a little about my own heart child, namely primary school, which the rapporteur himself mentions. In 2013, I was part of the primary school and saw how devastating this reform that came was. What they did, and that is what I hear the rapporteur a little bit, was that they created a process-oriented school, but they wanted to measure it by results, and they were expected to be able to deliver into a result-oriented system of process-oriented teaching, and that is not possible. Therefore, we experienced that a great many of these students who were going to work on the process-oriented were lost compared to having to be measured on results. So compared to looking into it, I think it could be exciting if you wanted to make some changes there. I would also like to ask about the L 409 issue, which imposed on teachers a completely new way of working, in relation to whether it is also something that the Liberal Alliance will look into to see whether we should change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602193143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602193144	Let me begin by clarifying what I meant by my speech. I mean, it's all about running for learning goals. We have over 1,000 learning goals in Denmark, and what is central, and what is often at the heart of the learning objectives, are competences. That is what the Prime Minister has called academic school methods. I really think this is a fine way to describe it, that is to say that we need to be adaptable, creative, communicative and all sorts of other half abstract bullshit that children from good homes can find out, but which is ultimately stressful for children, because it is too unconcrete, it is too fluffy, and if you do not have basic skills in place, it is too big a job to take on. It is a failure of the children, and that is what we must change and which I hope we can change. I hear the Prime Minister agrees, so that gives hope for the future. Then there's L 409. I am almost afraid to say that I do not remember the contents of L 409, because then I know that I can end up like a few others have ended, and then there may be 40 questions for L 409, but we have to take the risk. Perhaps the questioner can clarify what it is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602193239	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602193240	After all, L 409 was where one went in and changed the way the teachers worked, so one went from having a task one had to solve to having a certain number of hours; it became hour work. For many teachers it actually killed some of the fire they had compared to the difference they wanted to make and compared to the extra hours they spent on the students who needed it. So you became an hour worker. I appreciate the other comments on this. Because that's exactly what this is about. But what is the solution? Is the solution to make fewer common goals, stronger training requirements, fewer training requirements? Is the solution to set individual primary schools free, or should it be at municipal level? Because I agree with the idea, but where do we move away from the thought process, when we want to change something, to make it concrete, in terms of how we want to set these primary schools free, so that it brings the right benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602193329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602193330	Subject to the fact that I do not have years of experience in either educational or school policy, what I described in the speech, which I think is the right direction, was to say more that the purpose of the school is skills, knowledge and education. These are not competences, and that is not all sorts of nonsense. It is about defining a national curriculum. So, Denmark is one of the only countries in Europe that does not have a national curriculum. A curriculum is about: What is the most important knowledge to acquire? And then there's a hundred percent freedom on how to teach. In fact, I think that even if you go in and decide more content, you end up setting school free in that way, because you don't have to run after anything else. I believe that this is the right way to go, subject to the fact that it is a complex area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602193410	Thank you to the Chairman of the Liberal Alliance, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. There are no more brief remarks, and thank you for just getting the platform ready for the next party chairman, who is approaching the platform, and that is now Mr. President. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602193455	When you have been lucky enough to get your priorities adopted here in Parliament, they will be a little bit alike babies, and I will start by mentioning news about two of the alternative babies. One baby is the study of medical cannabis, which has been extended by 4 years. Thank you to all the parties that supported it. In the autumn we will be negotiating an extension of the target group, a major drug supplement and the organisation of the scheme in a scientific framework that creates evidence that makes doctors dare to print cannabis for medical use, and in the long term I hope that we can legalise cannabis with the right to home culture in Denmark. The second baby is the citizens' proposals, and the reason why I am mentioning them is that we are soon approaching 1,000 citizens' proposals and that more of them are now being adopted, for example. on the Climate Act and on the right to grief leave. In fact, I believe that many of the proposals we have dealt with would never have come up in the Folketing if we had not ensured that there was a crack in the thick walls of Christiansborg, through which citizens can force the Folketing to deal with proposals if 50,000 signatures could be collected. When Citizen's Proposal No. 1,000 runners, of course, we will celebrate it in the Alternative, and I hope the rest of you will. However, in order to begin my actual speech, I would like to make an appeal which I have made on a number of occasions lately: dear government, dear Minister for Transport, put the legal treatment of the Lynetteholm plant on hold, let Copenhageners have an opportunity to discuss whether you need 80 billion. kr. to pour 80 million. In order to create a peninsula and build a city of the same size as Hillerød, with all the consequences it has for the climate, nature and the environment, a plan that may be in conflict with EU law, which concerns the countries around the Baltic Sea and which is completely top-down and without citizen involvement at a time when it is becoming a tradition to involve citizens in the development of their cities across the country. If it is a good idea with Lynetteholmen and that in 50 to 70 years' time there will be a town ready in Øresund with a ring road, metro, port tunnel and other infrastructure, then the Copenhageners will have to say yes to it. But ask the inhabitants before you trump through the biggest construction project in Danish history. Now for something completely different. I have been in the Danish Parliament for six years, but it is still a while, but I have to say that in the six years I have never experienced that there has been so much between what is happening on the other side of the castle's thick walls, what we call out in reality and what is happening in our own little bubble, and here I am thinking in particular of the climate. While the government in here at Borgen thinks it is going very well to meet our 70-percent reduction targets by 2030, students demonstrating for the climate must be carried away from the parliamentary stairs by the police. While the government and the support parties celebrate that one has now agreed to reach a milestone in 2025 for a CO2 while the Climate Council criticises the government's climate plan and advises it to introduce CO2 While the government refuses to find ways to reduce the meat production, which causes a very high CO2 Never before have I experienced so much a distance between reality outside Christiansborg and so life in our little bubble. I was down at the green student movement on the last day of their hunger strike for the climate, and I asked them what filled them most in their minds after a week, and it was actually a question: Torsten, how on earth do you get the Social Democrats to reopen the climate agreements? This question comes not only from the Green students, but also from Greenpeace and other green organisations. So, dear Social Democrats and Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen: how do you get the Social Democrats to reopen the climate agreements? And how do we ensure that the negotiations that are currently under way around CO 2 60%? of Denmark is covered by agriculture, it is around most of the world. Approx. 80% Of what we grow, we use to feed animals, along with a whole lot of soy that we import from areas where there should have been rainforest. This is not going to work in the long term, but the government will not deal with it at all in the agricultural negotiations. We need to reduce animal production, and these negotiations could be the start of a much needed renewal and a sustainable conversion of Danish agriculture. In this context, there is a challenge that may be greater than any other challenge facing Danish agriculture, and that is that we are just as quietly selling our agricultural land abroad. From the agricultural law was liberalised in 2015 to 2018, when it was last examined, 2.5% has been sold. of the Danish agricultural land abroad. This corresponds to an area the size of Bornholm. Our guess is that you want to sell about 10%. of Denmark's agricultural land before you find a way to do something about it. It is clear that it is the international capital funds that have really begun to see Danish agricultural land. Already in 2018, you could read the following headline in the Agricultural Newspaper: The international capital fund JBI Equity sees great opportunities in the upcoming generation shifts in Danish agriculture. If it goes as we want it writes the fund on their website • investment in Denmark will initially include a three-digit euromillion amount. It may grow to EUR 1 billion in ten years, but you have to be conservative at first. The challenge is not to get money into the industry, but to make it grow, says the fund. There are not many people in the population, and as far as I do not know here at Christiansborg, who know that Danish farmland is being sold bit by bit and by day, and if we do not wake up, it will be another thing that happened before someone really discovered it and which it was suddenly too late to change. Because we will never get that land again, and it is not only about fatherland love and our national identity with Denmark as an agricultural society; it is not only about us writing about half of our fatherland songs when the land is no longer ours, but it is also about climate, environment and nature. Capital funds exist only for one reason: they must earn money for their shareholders. And how do you get money to grow in agriculture? I don't know what you're looking at, but I see huge farms with thousands of hectares of intensive farming, using the rules of manure and spray poison all the way to the border. There is not much agricultural culture in that, and there we just add land to intensive farming with grain deserts and, like so many times before, profit disappears from Denmark. For the same reason, a few weeks ago, the Alternative tabled a motion for a resolution proposing to restrict the purchase of Danish agricultural land by foreign capital funds. It was not adopted, but, to our great pleasure, the government signed up to setting up a working group to find out how large the volume of sales of Danish agricultural land is and how it might be reduced. Thank you. It is incredibly important that we get this right, because otherwise it will be almost impossible for Danish organic farmers and women to afford to take over Danish farmland in competition with the capital funds and drive them forward, as has been done in generation after generation. In the alternative, we would like to go further than just restricting the access of foreign capital funds to buy our land. We do not think it is a communist idea to create a farm fund in which the state buys up large parts of the land that is now being sold because of the generational change in agriculture and pieces it up into smaller units that can be sold back to future generations by Danish farmers and women. For one thing is certain: it is more green to invest in future generations of Danish farmers than to let Chinese capital funds buy up agricultural land, such as they. Do in Africa. In the alternative, we hope that Danish agriculture can once again become a pioneering agriculture for the whole world. The time for traditional, conventional, monocultural agriculture is over, and we must switch to a regenerative agriculture using permaculture, forest farming, biodynamics, ecology. It is crucial that we make a transition from animal to plant production, while at the same time producing more food in a smaller area because we are becoming more people. The global dining table for which Danish agriculture is to produce fresh produce serves the entire huge variety of Danish vegetables, herbs, seeds, cereals and pulses, not to mention haslings, seaweed, seagrass and many other green delicacies that we have to invest in, breed and enjoy. Yeah, yawn, somebody's saying, what a boring food I want my steak. But plant-based food tastes excellent, it just needs to be prepared properly and you can make wonderful plant steaks out of many different vegetables, and then it's actually incredibly good for us. Plant-based food is good for the soil, for the animals and for public health. We're getting healthier, thinner, hotter, happier and healthier, just look at the Alternative Parliamentary Group. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194451	Thank you very much to the Chairman of the Alternative. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194453	Thank you for that and thank you for a passionate speech about Danish agriculture. I'm just afraid it's infinitely far from the bubble that Mr. Torsten Gejl and the alternative are in, and then the world that is in the real agricultural sector. It sounds beautiful with these visions, but if we do not make sure that agriculture is on the road and if we do not make sure that we have conventional agriculture which can compete in an international market that is tough and if we do not ensure that we have a common European policy in which we do not renationalise, but ensure that the subsidies are fairly similar and that the conditions of competition are fairly similar, then there will be nothing at all like that, Mr President. Torsten Gejl talks about, in the future, because then Danish agriculture is closed and turned off. That is the reality we are facing. That is why I am very concerned that we are speaking in favour, for example. to take 3.8 billion. kr. from agricultural support schemes, while others can strengthen their support schemes and then buy low-level land and in this way actually make a huge theft of the farmer's property. Will the alternative help to protect Danish agriculture so that they have a chance to adapt with the time it now takes to make a transition in an internationally globalised market?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194625	The answer to that is yes, we have to. What is happening is that Danish farmers and women have grown very old. There's going to be a generation change now. For the next 10 years there will be a very, very large generation change in Danish agriculture, and we must be able to exploit this to change Danish agriculture and set it for the future. If we just allow the capital funds to buy up the land that can now be sold because of a generational change, we will not have the chance to help ensure that the results that the rapporteur is also asking for are there. That is why I believe that the state should be able to buy land and sell it back to Danish farmers instead of disappearing into foreign hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194713	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194714	It probably also requires green student movements, etc. This is not the way Danish agriculture treats hatred, as it has become a habit. That's one thing. The second point is that one can very quickly solve part of the problem of generational shifts in international capital funds, and this is removing the generational shift tax for family-owned companies. That would help agriculture quite considerably. Is this an idea that the Alternative will help to consider?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194743	No, I think it's gonna take a lot bigger than that. The land we have at the moment is often pieced up in quite large holdings. The young people who attend the agricultural school already find it very, very difficult to get near it and, at the same time, when they have to compete with large multinational capital companies to buy it, it becomes almost impossible. We need to find a way to stop the acquisition of Danish agriculture and then make the land available to Danish farmers again, and there I do not think the rapporteur's proposal is enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194817	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194820	Thank you. Now I'll try to see if I can get an answer. I thought it was a strange conversation with the Liberal Alliance before. The rapporteur mentions a state fund to buy land, and I think that is a good idea. I myself have invested some pocket money here from the time I have made a lot of money in the Folketing, in the one fund that exists, and it seems to have been a great success. There are very many farmers who have been allowed to have the great joy of working with the land, with money from that fund. The free farmer is not the indebted farmer. That's the problem. This means that we can find more ways, and I would like to hear from the rapporteur what he thinks of, for example. the old idea, which we discussed in the 1980s and 1990s, with little opposition from the big farmers, namely the cooperative farming, where you go together, as you did in the other crises for agriculture. There it has always been solved together, and it has been the community that has lifted the farmers out of the crisis again. They've made co-operatives, co-abattoirs, etc. etc. that have lifted them. They could also co-farm; then you could share in large farms, and then you didn't have to go down into small units. This could also give you more time free time, as we talked about before, because you shared in caring for the cattle, looking after the fields, etc. Then you were actually allowed to have a weekend every once in a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602194940	The rapporteur himself mentions all the benefits of this. We would like to support cooperative farms and we would like to support the funds that enable us to invest in Danish agriculture and we would actually like to encourage investment in them. The second thought is a Danish thought which has brought us very, very far, and it may well be that we have to go back to it a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195000	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195001	Yes, and then it lies on the flat hand when we go out into the big world and help the countries that have been profited for centuries by colonial masters just to get started so that they can get their feet under their own table instead of the big capital groups coming. Similarly, it is today a real threat to Danish agriculture that they no longer own it themselves, and it is many years since they have done so. But the Danish credit institutions are no longer owners, because it is large capital groups that come and take over them slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195033	I agree. And there are many who think that we cannot limit the large capital funds to buying up Danish agricultural land, because the European Union will be opposed to this in relation to the movement of free capital. In fact, the European Union is deeply concerned about the fact that the land is being bought up in large crumbs around the European countries. Today I have looked at proposals from the Commission to prevent massive purchases of agricultural land in the various countries, for example. the right to buy, so that if a major investor wants to buy, first ask the neighbors or the tenants or the state, who will then be given the option to buy. Another thing is to limit the area to be bought in. So that is actually one thing that is discussed with great concern in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195113	The next brief remark is to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195117	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much for a speech, as usual, passionate. Monday morning, when I got in my car and drove over here, I heard one, I'd say, horrifying story. It was the history of the climate movement in Denmark, the Green Student Movement and the Danish Vegetarian Association that decided to sue Danish Crown. When I got into the matter a little bit, I could see that the alternative recently supported the collection, which wants to collect funds for a trial against this glorious company. It is a company that I must remind you of employs no less than 8,000 people at home and 23,000 people globally and has a billion-dollar turnover and, in my opinion, delivers a very large part to the Treasury. I'll sort of go without going into Danish Crown's marketing or the Alternative's interpretation of it just hear sir. Torsten Gejl, if you think it is a task for a political party to find funding for legal proceedings against Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195228	Yeah, well, if that's how we support the purpose of a trial.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195235	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195237	So Torsten Gejl believes that it is the alternative's task as a party to collect money to sue Danish companies who pay taxes in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195251	Well, it's not our job to collect money, that is to say to start a collection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195258	The next brief remark is to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195302	Thank you. I am sure that the Alternative and Conservatives can agree that we must take good care of our children and minors. But how we do it, unfortunately, separates us. We believe that we must look after our children and ensure them a healthy and safe upbringing where there is room for being young and young. It is we as parents who have the most important task to look after our children and ensure this framework. This also applies to the question of legal gender change. I have full respect and understanding for the people who choose to undergo a change... changing a sex... but it's a matter for adults, not for children. And children must be spared gender-policy definitions that we constantly set up and discuss. That is why I should like to ask the rapporteur something. Because if it's up to the alternative, our minors can decide for themselves whether they want to change legal genders, even as a very young child, and I find it hard to understand what you think it's like to take care of our children by asking them to take responsibility as an adult.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195406	In fact, I have very, very much respect for that question. I believe that this is one of the issues that is problematic with regard to politics, because I think it is an ethical issue. That is why I would like to say that I can explain my position. I believe that it can be so great a burden for a child who has a gender that is completely opposed to what the child considers himself to be that it can cause problems for that child for the rest of its life. And that is why I, as a person, am in favour of being able to change it. But I do not want to take my party to account for it; I do not think that should be done on ethical issues such as genital mutilation, what the rapporteur says here, or abortion or such things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195450	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195451	So if I am to understand the rapporteur correctly, the rapporteur is in favour of legal gender change, and so is the party. I also understand that this is a very difficult debate. But now it is the case that in Denmark we already have a lot of legislation and a lot of good intentions to look after our children. Among other things: We must have consent if a child is to take a leisure job and if, for example, they are to take a leisure job. must create an account on social media. And we also have an age for when you are of age in this country; that is when you are 18 years old, and then you can vote. So all these actions place responsibility on adults, and we protect our children. Therefore, I just have to ask again how the alternative can back up robbing children of their childhood and giving them a responsibility that only belongs in the adult world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195541	Well, what do you want me to say? It is simply a difference of opinion. Like I said, it's ethics. So I find it very difficult to think that I should stand and convince the rapporteur to mean something other than me. I simply believe that this is an ethical issue for which each of us, as a human being, must take a stand and answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195601	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195605	Thank you. There is no doubt more that divides New Citizens and the Alternative than that brings us together, but I would like to focus on some of the things that might bring us together. I think it's a little more constructive. I know that both the rapporteur and I are passionate about psychiatry. Could the rapporteur not try to outline some of the ideas the Alternative has about improving psychiatry?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195630	That was a big question. Well, now I'm a bit of an intern. For example: In the area of homeless people, I've been really upset. After all, I went on the street for a week as a homeless person in Aarhus to learn and to see what it is for agendas that are important here. What I experienced was that there are, in fact, a lot of people who find it difficult to get into psychiatric treatment if they have an abuse. This means that if you have an abuse, you cannot go to psychiatric treatment, but if you have a diagnosis, you cannot treat your abuse. This is certainly one of the things that is extremely inappropriate and that I think should be changed. In addition, we must be careful about diagnosis. I think we often overdiagnostic. Well, life may be difficult, and it may also be very difficult. But sometimes, as a system, we go in and tell a family that we would like to give your child a diagnosis of all that it entails of potential medication, etc., a little too early and perhaps before we have tried to solve the problem in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195740	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195741	Thank you. I share many of the thoughts behind it. In relation to homeless people, one often forgets to connect it to the mental problem, the mental disorders that people have, and thinks it's just done with making a home available. But many of them cannot be in a home. How does the alternative view us trying to make plans that go a little further? So, in the past, a lot of this has been on the rate pool and so on, but why don't we sit down and try to make a five or ten-year plan, so that you can set aside funds so that you can develop something on this so that it doesn't become such ongoing appropriations that actually limit the possibility of developing such an area here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195820-2	Well, what's not to like? I think there are many parties talking about psychiatric billions and long-term plans. We are, of course, fully involved in negotiating this. What we will probably be asked about is where we will find the money, but we will have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195835	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195839	Thank you. The rapporteur referred to Lynetteholm as a failed project, but now I want to ask about the other major projects in Copenhagen. Is it a good idea to build mass on the open spots that are left in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195854	Thank you for that question. It's easy for me to answer no to. Of course it depends on what kind of spots it is, but Amager Common doesn't think we should be built either. On the whole, we do not believe that in the future there will be massive building needs and housing needs in Copenhagen • we do believe that it will start as quietly as possible to go the other way, where there will not be the same population growth in Copenhagen and the cities with which Copenhagen compares. But anyway, we just as people need some open spaces, some parks and some places where we can relax and be ourselves. So, of course, we are not in favour of building the little green spots that are left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195935	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602195936	But then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees that if you make settlements in Copenhagen, it must be possible to demand a higher proportion of general construction. At the moment, it is the case that there are 75%. speculative construction and 25 per cent. general construction. Will the rapporteur help from in here to give the opportunity to change it so that it may be 50%? speculative construction and 50 per cent. general construction?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200009	In the alternative, we have also been concerned that there is too little room for general construction in the construction projects. So, of course we will.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200019	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200020	Thank you. I think I have noticed that, for the alternative, it is not necessarily crucial who provides the welfare services, but that the citizen has the opportunity to have a free choice and to have self-determination in relation to the benefits that must now be provided and the diversity that we have in life, we also have when, for example, we get older. And there is a pretty big problem today, in that it is simply difficult to set up new free-care homes and institutions themselves, because we have combined the economy in a way that calculates such a 24-hour rate in the municipalities and that is the amount you can get if you start in a free-care home. But this daily rate is just calculated in different municipalities, which means that across municipalities you get a completely different amount of money, which you can take to a free-care home. And that is one of the things that, in the eyes of conservatives, goes in and limits the ability of the elderly to have a free choice in old age too. There are 57 municipalities in Denmark that have only one community nursing home. Then you can choose a home in another municipality, but the vast majority want to stay in their municipality. Could the alternative be willing to try to see if we could have a more uniform starting point for how we do these calculations so that we make sure that everything is calculated?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200136	I mean, now I have to be careful I've had a lot of rapporteurs, and right now I have 51, but I've actually had a lot of people before that, and I've never been, so I have to be careful, because the idea is incredibly enticing. We love free schools, self-serving institutions, which means that we have a lot in common with the bourgeois people in relation to the desire for freedom and the fact that we love the growth-layered forest, which makes things new and organizes itself in associations or institutions that are self-serving, and entrepreneurs, etc. etc. What I don't know enough about is whether or not I'm saying yes to a kind of privately owned elderly home system. If I do not, I would like to say: yes, we would very much like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200222	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200224	I have the greatest respect for that task, sir. Torsten Gejl performs as a one-man army. I have tried to have 13 rapporteurs, including the older rapporteur, so I know that the rapporteur is even more difficult. So it is not to bind the rapporteur to some specific answer on this matter. But the problem is that it can then be about how much you draw on Mr's department, how much you pull on the road and park, when the municipality has to do this calculation. And the figure you end up with is crucial to whether there is room for a free nursing home, whether there is room to give the elderly that choice. The rapporteur and I can talk about this on another occasion, but I certainly believe that self-determination is something that we as parties can agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200307	Yeah. And I totally agree; in the employment system, in the school system, everywhere we want self-determination. And I am more and more reassured about the fact that we need to get some of this bureaucracy out of here and then make it simpler for the elderly to choose a home for the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200324	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mona Juul, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200333	Thank you for that and thank you for a good speech, sir. Torsten Gejl. It is always a pleasure to hear the rapporteur's speeches, and it is a pleasure to work together on, among other things. climate area. Unfortunately, we were not allowed to negotiate together on the 2025 climate target. Where does the rapporteur really stand in relation to the fact that we need to share the climate legislation in the future? Can the rapporteur say what kind of situation he has set, among other things? President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200352	I think it put me and my party and all the parties that were not even invited to that debate in a bad situation. After all, we negotiated and we had been to many negotiating meetings, and suddenly we read on Twitter that negotiations have now been called for which we are not involved, and then an agreement is just being made. I'm not sure we're in the same place compared to what the milestone should have been in 2025, but I'm sure we both wanted to have been there. I also think it suits the Folketing to try to have broad agreements in the area of climate, for which there is a tradition. So it really upsets me very much that you made an agreement like that and let it look as if the support parties had had a huge victory and the sustainable transition was now back on track.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200433	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200434	It's exactly the same experience I have. I think that we both have a sincere desire to ensure that politics is not just such nonsense and that we are actually here because we want to change some things and want to pull it in different directions. But I'm betting we're gonna come back strong, and I'm just gonna sign for that. Thanks for the good talk in connection with the 2025 milestone. We're not done with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200502	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200504	Then there are no more brief remarks to Mr. Torsten Gejl. Thank you to the alternative and would the rapporteur be kind enough to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur? The next rapporteur comes from the Christian Democrats, and that is Mr. Jens Rohde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602200530	One must be blind and deaf, not to see how globalisation has created uncertainty among people, and not to listen to part of today's debate and some of the questions that have been put to the Prime Minister, that is the uncertainty that many parties in the Folketing are mirroring and nurturing. I really have to tell Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslagh, that at least during his lifetime there has not been free immigration in Denmark, but I would also like to say that it is perfectly understandable that many withdraw and try to build up defenses. Some of the world's inhabitants are constantly on the move, while the others find that it is the world itself that refuses to stand still, and then there are those groups that may be forced to break up involuntarily and look for new places, and these parallel worlds must of course be dealt with. But our task as politicians in this high thing can never be to try to present citizens with a picture of an ideal past society where everyone had the same gods and the same customs and the same language, for it never existed. We cannot stand here and invoke responsibility when, at the same time, we have a fantasy that we are projecting into the past, but we have to do the opposite if we want to save Denmark and if we want to save Europe. Many of us, with many years in Danish politics, have brought the cosmopolitan world into the everyday lives of the Danes with arguments and laws, and many are unfortunately also the politicians who today deny the cosmopolitan reality and consciousness, and this is not only politically wrong, but it is ethical and morally misleading. Some of us are old enough to remember how we sat with our noses in high school books and were forced to read Jean-Paul Sartre, and many believed in his nonsense that the Soviet Union was after all the future. If you were to be cool at the time, you'd have to go with Sartre. It was in the years before the fall of the Wall that I had to read such things, and we went on study trips to the Soviets and Poland and the GDR. In fact, I was several times in the GDR to see with my own eyes what was on the other side of the Germany that I have always felt as part of. But after these study trips we then started reading something Albert Camus and discovered that he was the one who was right. He wrote that when one eliminates morals and ethics in politics, then only has fallen back, and eventually the violence takes over, perhaps in a sophisticated form and hidden behind altruistic arguments... maybe it takes a psychological form... but the violence is there. All this saw Camus, who died as a liberal in the democratic sense. Today, liberal democracy is under pressure, including from some who call themselves liberals. The Israeli writer Amos Oz, who died in 2018, had an Eastern European background, and for many years he was a favourite of the Nobel Prize in literature and, incidentally, a strong peace fighter and supporter of the two-state solution, but it is primarily his unpolitical literary works that have made him known in Denmark. With few precise lines, Oz drew portraits of common fates, all of which live in the present but which, for good and evil, are defined by their past. In Scenes from a village we meet the unmarried and cash family doctor Gili Steiner with a very special bond to his military nephew who does not show up at the bus station as agreed. I wonder why. We also meet the entrepreneurial real estate agent Jossi, who will buy one of the city's oldest houses and tear it down and turn it into some new settlers, and suddenly his plans change because he is hit by Cupid's arrow. Such are the fates of so many in Amos Oz' literary universe, just as they are with us right here and now, fates that all live within us and among us, where individual events can change everything, whether from love to a way of life or a outlook for life. And as another Forrest Gump, you sometimes ask yourself whether you are just a feather whose fate is determined by the wind, or whether we ourselves are masters of fate, or whether it is in between. What is my destiny, Mother? Gump asks this on his mother's deathbed in the state of Alabama, which is the whole focal point of Gumps at once smooth, predictable and wild and changeable lives, a book and a film that put itself deep in people all over the world in the 1990s. That is how all good local literature can be universal, and this universal reality tells us as politicians to try to understand the fluid modernity that comes with it. Bjørg Tulinius and Michael Bach Henriksen have committed a Danish book entitled "Some Fear and Hope," and in it previously reported Amos Oz the following: I never write about good and evil people, heroes and villains, I am interested in conflicts between good and good, or rather, clashes between gray and gray, not black and white. This may be best illustrated in the short story • The digging. Here a young Palestinian says about the difference between him and the Israelis: Our misfortune is partly our own fault, partly yours, but your misfortunes come from the soul. What he says is that the Palestinian tragedy is the result of Israel's establishment, while the tragedy of the Jews has been there for centuries before the establishment of the state. We do not need to agree with that view, but we must allow him to show an understanding of inheritance and debt. My question is, do we? When we discuss the world's conflicts and refugees, we must also acknowledge the legacy and debt of both Arabs and Jews being victims of the acts of Europeans, Arabs of colonisation and imperialism and Jews of anti-Semitism and mass murder. Misunderstand me correctly: we in Europe must not duck; our history and, above all, our written European civilisation are great and something very special in the world, but it is not a free ticket to stand here and deny ourselves our responsibility for the course of the world, which we ourselves have made limitless in so many respects. Because we are part of the boundless world. It is not something you can simply outsource, just as you cannot just outsource your responsibility for all the world's refugees to Rwanda. But instead of standing here and from every corner of the world crying out to the fear and outrage and the notion of black and white, heroes and villains, we might try to take an interest in the conflicts between good and good and the clash between gray and gray, try to meet each other in respect and dignity and with the desire to set people free. For it is typical that most people live in everyday life with the desire for freedom together and quite pragmatically. The Christian Democrats are a bourgeois middle party. We don't have any dogmas, our main concern is that we don't have a major issue. Of course we also have our priorities, but the point is that we want the whole thing back in Danish politics and the freedom of individuals, schools, municipalities and local communities back in Denmark. And we will not get that if there is always a fear that the few will destroy everything, because then we will end up restricting everyone's freedom. Civil and liberals need to lift the spirit and get away from individual matters and dogmas and the fear that there is a Muslim behind any curtain. Otherwise, the Prime Minister, with his well-developed sense of socialist history and symbolism, gets the whole course for himself in the great social narrative, and it could all be of no consequence to the citizen if the prospects were not so far-reaching. We see a socialist ideology unfolding in full with the matriarchal all-embracing, protective, but also all-encompassing state, a state that says that if you don't want to, then you must. In KD we insist on asking the question: Should what? What are we supposed to do for the sake of the state? Since when have the children become the state and not the parents? Does the state have a patent to know how to raise our children and care for the elderly, organise family life and run our schools and civil society? And where do basic concepts such as freeness and spaciousness become, or for that matter, mercy and forgiveness? Is there room for them in a single case democracy? And not only do we ask the question, but we come up with comprehensive plans for the freedom of municipalities to decide for themselves the level of tax and service, for the ability of the regions to organise health care with citizens and to maintain both regional maternity and cancer departments, because relationships and closeness mean something to people's safety and recovery. We want the municipalities and regions to decide for themselves the level of taxation, but we, on the other hand, put the state tax significantly down on work, because we want to have more employment and a higher supply of labour and hands to provide the services in which we invest. We see the individual in relation to others, from the close in the family, which is once the smallest but most important administrative link of society, to the great communities and being part of something larger. Of course it's all for good and evil, that's the way it is, but first and foremost for good and good and gray and gray, and not black and white. That is why I would also like to end my speech by basically thanking the Prime Minister for both the speech today and for his efforts. It is appreciated despite the differences that exist and that must be there. On behalf of the KD, I shall make the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to put freedom at the top of the political agenda and to free municipalities, regions, schools, local communities, families and individuals. Parliament notes that the levels of freedom of citizens have been considerably reduced in recent years, including in the shelter of the corona crisis. There is a need for both spiritual and political and economic freedom which is not taught by the state. Parliament calls on the government to pursue a firm and fair immigration policy which limits the number of people who come here, as numbers mean something, but which at the same time seeks to treat all people with dignity, including refugees, disabled people, mentally ill, homeless and others at risk. Parliament calls on the government to significantly reduce taxes at work so that we can secure the hands and heads of the labour market of the future that are needed to create growth and provide the public service that the people are put in the prospect of both government and opposition. V 148). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602201701	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. I should just like to make sure that this is a proposal for adoption by the Christian Democrats and only the Christian Democrats. Jens Rohde, I'm sorry. I forgot to mention Mr. Rohde. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, who is also with us. It has been sent to the Legal Secretariat). That is what is called a leading question from the President. Jens Rohde I thank you very much for reminding the President and apologizing to Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille to forget it because I had not written it into my speech). Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602201738	Thank you. First of all welcome back in the Folketing to the Christian Democrats, one might say. It's been a long time. In this context, I think it might be very nice perhaps to have a little repetition of the Christian Democrats' policy. At any rate, I remember that during the 2019 parliamentary elections, the party's forewoman, Isabella Arendt, said that homosexual couples should not have the right to adoption or other help to have children. So homosexuals should not have the same rights as other couples. Where I come from, we call it obvious discrimination. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether that is still the position of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602201823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602201825	All the rights that exist today for women in the field of abortion, for homosexuals in relation to the right to insemination, we do not propose to tamper with. I don't have a problem with "just like sir." Torsten Gejl mentioned that some people have some ethical considerations about some things. This was also the case in the Left when this was adopted. I know, because I was not very popular in the bourgeois government with anyone, when I helped with one vote that it was decided to grant the right to insemination for lonely and lesbians. There was little enthusiasm for that, I should like to say hello. So it's not something you can put into a party vault. This is something people have some ethical considerations about. The good thing is that we in the Christian Democrats can accommodate people with different ethical considerations in relation to these issues. It is, of course, fair to discuss them, and it is fair to argue for them, but the policy is firm and it is in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602201947	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602201949	That was a very long answer to a relatively simple question. Should I understand that it is no longer the opinion of the Christian Democrats that homosexual couples should not adopt and receive help to have children in different ways? I am surprised that, for example, when I'm not in here, as a social educator may take responsibility for the most burned children in this society and must comfort them and be a contact teacher for them, but because my boyfrida is not the name of my girlfriend, but Frederik, I must not at least be allowed to adopt according to what was previously the position of the Christian Democrats. So I think it is quite central to know whether the Christian Democrats have changed their position on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202036	And I have answered that the policy that is in force today and the rights that we have today also apply in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202042	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202046	Well, thank you. I am also curious about where the Christian Democrats stand on the issue of abortion. And the reason I am asking is because we need a clear answer. I know, sir. Jens Rohde has written on Twitter: I give women a number of rights and fully fund them. There is no compulsion to use these rights. If you don't understand, you're out of educational reach. Danish Women's Society talks about abortion as if it were a contraceptive. It's sad. - I just need to know if Mr. Knox is gonna be okay. Jens Rohde stands by the tweet if he means what it says. After all, I thought that we had rights because generations of women before us stood together and fought for them, fought for us today to have the right to free abortion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202135	But what can't be understood in that tweet? Of course I stand by it completely. I would like to stress that we are giving some rights. Now we also make sure and even buy the money so that you can always get the advice you want, and we add that if you subsequently, after an abortion, go around and have a hard time; have some things you want to talk about; do you need help? It's not a very happy event for all women, I hope we can agree to have to stand and make that choice then you can get psychological assistance and help from the public. So we are actually providing women with additional rights, and we are not tampering with the rights that exist today. So what's the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202233	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202235	The problem is, sir. Jens Rohde, that you assume there are some women who think abortion is a contraceptive. It is by God, I would like to say to the Christian Democrats, not. That is a right we have and the conversation that Mr. Jens Rohde's talking about that advice already exists. And I can promise the Christian Democrats and Mr. Jens Rohde says it's pretty demonizing, so we really want to have a more open-minded conversation with the doctor and the health care system. I can guarantee that there are no women who regard abortion as a contraceptive, and if the Christian Democrats do so, then I really think it is to bomb the debate on equality back to the 1950s.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202321	Before I give the rapporteur the opportunity to reply, I would just like to draw the attention of the questioner to the fact that neither the use of direct indictments nor the summoning of the higher powers are in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202331	I think that Mrs Rosa Lund should take an oxygen system and a Valium and then come down a little, because that is not what I am saying at all; it is a straw-man argument that she leads there from one end to the next. I am not saying at all that there are women who regard it as contraception. I say that the discussion initiated by the Danish Women's Society with the outrage and the argument, the strawman argument used; it was an argument that it was as a contraception, and not that women regard it as contraception. It was the way Danish Women's Society attacked it; it was the rhetoric that they used in the discussion. I am, moreover, at the point where I say that I think it is totally unacceptable that we should not be allowed to discuss anything. Well, I could understand from the Prime Minister that she thought this should not be discussed at all. Of course you have to. Everything must be discussed, including what our resources are used for. But we are not tampering with the right, and we have written it down. And that must be enough sentence. We do not touch on any women's right to abortion; I could never dream of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202433	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202437	First of all, I would like to thank you for the quotations, particularly from Amos Oz, which I very much appreciate. I have not read them all, but I have read some of them and am inspired by it in relation to if we are ever to have a lasting ceasefire, a reconciliation and a real peace agreement in the area we discussed last week. And there I noticed that the rapporteur voted in favour of the majority opinion on Israel-Palestine, and I was pleased about that. By the way, this is one of the things that I have spent a lot of time on, when I have used the Christian Democrats for something, it has been mainly about development aid and international issues, because KD has a very good approach to it. And you've been sure that 0.7 percent. At any rate, when we have to make development aid, it is absolutely minimum. In this context, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur was satisfied with the decision taken last Wednesday. Was the rapporteur satisfied that the Danish Government went to the Human Rights Council and once again abstained from voting on whether an independent investigation should be carried out into the 11 days of war that have been down there now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202552	In fact, I find that difficult to answer, and it is on the basis of whom the independent investigation is to be carried out. You may sympathize with that, but we need to know the premises before we can give a definitive answer to it. And it has little to do with the fact that it is difficult to find someone who is not biased either on one side or on the other. And we must at least make sure that the investigations that are being carried out are carried out, whether war crimes have been committed, because I assume that these are the investigations, Mr President. Christian Juhl refers to. There, you have to leave it up to the government to sit down at the table and find out what is the art of the possible. But I'm not in principle against that kind of investigation. It is only good that countries, Heads of State, are held accountable for their actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202703	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202704	It's probably going too far to discuss how we're gonna get peace down there. However, I believe that in this situation where we in the Danish Parliament call on the government to say that it would like it to work for an impartial investigation which investigates Hamas' war crimes and which investigates Netanyahu and the state of Israel's war crimes and that it would like it to be done within the framework of the United Nations. That's what we told the government. I can't think of any more neutral parties. This is how I have known the Christian Democrats before: they have had a great deal of respect for the fact that when the United Nations enters, there is also a solution as fair as human beings can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202746	Yes, and I fully agree with that, and so do we. The government's announcement was that it would also like to see whether a consensus could be reached at European level on how to do it. I also tried in my speech last week to make it as balanced as it could possibly be. It is exceptionally difficult to know how to do the right thing; because what is of course important is that we also look forward and that we get that peace process back on track. And there you may have doubts as to whether this is possible for the present.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202827	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202831	Thank you. First of all, I almost have to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that he has succeeded in making the neo-feminists more mad at him than they are at me when I think they can pay their menstrual bandage themselves. Well done anyway, I'd say. But I would like to talk a little more about the things that might also be able to gather New Citizens and KD. You talk so much about things that separate us. Let's talk about things that can get us together. The top tax limit wants KD to raise to 800,000. I would like to know whether the KD is determined to finance it, because some of the KD's plans are loan-financed, so I would like to ask whether one is open to and whether one is willing to, if we sit together in negotiations and then we can find some form of funding, so that we can look at whether one can compromise. Because I have also heard that KD will only vote for things that are funded in their 2030 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602202921	It is clear that when we make a 2030 plan, we have to answer for it, otherwise it will collapse. We want not only to move the top tax limit up to 800,000, but also to increase the employment allowance from 10.65%. At 26.60%, and then we would like to abolish the generational shift tax. These are the three tax elements that we have in our proposal, and there we have set out a number of priorities and a number of funding. After all, it is Arnepensionen, it is savings in job centres, it is the approach to early retirement that must be stopped, and it is the senior job scheme that is being abolished, to mention now some of them, that is to say, schemes that apply to the few and that we do not believe make society richer and which, moreover, we believe weaken employment. After all, it is one of the keystones of our 2030 plan that we want to increase employment quite significantly. That's why we're going in with tax instruments. It is not such a distribution discussion that we really care so much about here; it is how we can ensure that there are more hands on the labour market, and our plan is worth 40 000.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602203041	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602203043	Well, I very much agree with that, and I acknowledge that. What I am trying to get a sense of is the willingness to find compromises with regard to funding. So we can see ourselves in the employment allowance and the top tax; that's fine. We would like to abolish the labour market contribution, but we are willing to look at things. Well, we don't care if the cat is black as long as it catches mice, and it's just about getting more people to work. So is KD also willing to look at funding other than just debt? Because you've got 56 billion. kr., or it's 58 billion. kr.? DKK debt. So you're willing to try to find the money anywhere but just debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602203121	Thank you. Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602203122	Well, we're kind of open to everything, because, as I said in my speech, we don't have any dogmas. We have to get away from the dogmas. I also feel like I don't care if a cat is black or white, as long as it can catch mice. But it may well be that we are about to find a new expression, because it is actually an expression invented by President Mao.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602203144	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602203146	Thank you. I was in the special situation when I made my speech, that I had not managed to get my adoption text into the Chamber before I went to the platform. Now the President has been nice enough to let me read it here at my microphone. I would just like to say to my colleagues here that if they ever end up in a situation like me, where you are left alone in a party, there is one thing that can be looked forward to, and that is the service and flexibility and helpfulness that exist, both in the Folketing, in the ministries and in the Legal Secretariat. I have to make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the climate agreements concluded do not ensure Denmark's objective of reducing CO2 2 The Danish Parliament notes that the recommendations of the Commission on Performance are still based on the slogan of law and duty instead of a dogma of more trust and less control. The Danish Parliament therefore invites the Minister for Employment to call for negotiations to make attempts with cash assistance without counterclaims. The Danish Parliament further notes that a significant reduction in animal production in agriculture is both a single grip on agriculture's share of reduction of CO2 V 147). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602203257	I don't suppose that's something I need to answer). It's sir. Jens Rohde of course welcome to. But there are no more brief comments. That means we're moving on. Now we have come to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602203331	Thank you very much. No one can foresee the future, but as elected politicians it is still our task, based on the greatest possible knowledge, to try to look into the glass ball. It is on our shoulders to improve our society and look at the opportunities and challenges of the future, and there are many of them when you look at the relationship between Greenland and Denmark. For us in Inuit Ataqatigiit, the parliamentary year ends better than it started. In other words, we also see a great many opportunities and, in fact, more opportunities than obstacles. In 2021, Mr. Joe Biden as the new President of the United States, and the messages from the other side of the Atlantic are based on desires for cooperation, democracy and a rule-based approach to international cooperation. In addition, efforts to combat climate change have been prioritised, and new tones about cooperation and low-voltage in the Arctic have sounded, and this is important for us who call the Arctic our home. The US Secretary of State Blinken confirmed at his recent visit to Kangerlussuaq that the American side no longer wants to buy Greenland. Imagine that the United States must reassure a strategic partner that they no longer want to buy them. It's still a completely absurd thought. However, despite that, it is a necessary and important message from the United States after the last few years. Since then we have also seen a new government, a new Naala Suisut come to Greenland, and the elections in Greenland made it very clear that the Greenlandic voters want change. They want a safer and more equal society. It is clear that our economic and human challenges must be seen with the utmost seriousness in Greenland, and it is urgent to resolve them. This parliamentary year was also good for Inuit Ataqatigiit in the Folketing. I am at the head of Arctic Parliamentarians on behalf of the Kingdom Community, and it is an important and strategic platform that I look forward to developing especially in these years when interest in the Arctic is accelerating. And in the case of Arctic Parliamentarians, we have three priorities for the coming years that we have sent to the eight Arctic governments. Prioritization no. 1 is that we will increase our commitment to the climate struggle. In the Arctic, the temperature rises by three times as high as the global average, and this means not only a warmer climate in the Arctic, but also a more extreme weather. A few days ago, parts of Greenland were covered with snow. Now there is summer in Greenland. And at one point we actually had as much as 18 degrees, where it was really cold in Denmark in May. The weather is changing rapidly, and some also call it climate on steroids. The 4 million people living in the Arctic cannot solve the climate crisis alone, and I would therefore like to call once again on my fellow Members here to increase our joint commitment to climate change, so that together we can reverse developments, even when we look forward to COP26 in Glasgow in November. We must do this both in Greenland and in the rest of the kingdom community. Prioritization no. 2 is to create business development in the Arctic. And business development and sustainability are today each other's prerequisites, not contradictions. Sustainable business development in the Arctic is central to the development of the region and region, and we have a huge task ahead of us in attracting investment and creating increased trade in the region. Sustainability in the Arctic is also about creating local jobs, developing infrastructure, modernising and developing industries, while respecting nature. In Greenland we know that nature is really the only boss, and therefore it is important that we have respect for it. In Greenland we need small and medium-sized enterprises and we need to promote entrepreneurship. Here, too, we believe that the Arctic Economic Council is at the heart of future work to create business development. Prioritization no. 3 is to create human development in the Arctic. People in the Arctic, including indigenous peoples, are at the heart of the development of the region. Education, a vibrant culture and an exciting society in progress are key to our young people continuing to call the Arctic their home. Mental health, suicide prevention and tackling the difficult social problems are something that we in the Arctic have a huge task in solving together. Here we see some quite different violent figures than we see in the Nordic countries. Involvement of young people in the Arctic, a debate on security in the Arctic and joint work for a stronger Arctic are some of the things I look forward to together with my colleagues in the Arctic parliaments. Back in the Folketing we have a number of cases that we have not yet reached the goal of. The compensation from the state to the experimental children is not in place, as we have seen in the case of the godhavn boys. And we know that the Children's Terms look at the matter and will assess what opportunities there are to help the experimental children. The 80 million. kr., which we were given to combat sexual abuse of children in Greenland, gives children hope here and now, but prevention lags behind, and the project is already running out in a year and a half. Finally, I would like to strike a blow for an action plan against discrimination in Denmark. A great many minorities in Danish society are constantly not being accepted in society. This is something to which many of us with Greenlandic background can relate, and I know that there are also a great many Danes who distance themselves from the discrimination and racism that has also been seen here recently. It is therefore also surprising that no initiative has already been taken, but in any case we would like to work towards this, in other words an action plan against discrimination and racism. A lot of tasks await us after a much-needed breath-out when it comes here later this month. It has been a hard year, and corona has filled very and rightly. Fortunately, however, we are also looking forward to a parliamentary year in which the world opens up more after the summer holidays and gives us the opportunity to come out again and meet the voters and people. Later this month I will take over the chair of the Parliament's Greenland Committee. It is an absolutely central committee when it comes to Greenland affairs here in the Folketing, and I look forward to continuing and strengthening the joint work that exists in the committee during the coming parliamentary years. My message, as always, is that together we must translate interest into the benefit of Greenlandic society and thus also help to strengthen cooperation within the Kingdom Community. Tomorrow I am going home to Greenland, and I am really, really, really looking forward to a long period here in the service of the people's regime, one might say. It will be full of joy and long expected to come home to Greenland. It is simply going to be so nice, and I wonder if I am going to have a little nap in the air after a long debate in this Chamber today. I would like to thank you very much for the year that has passed. Thank you, Prime Minister. And I would like to sign for the words of this morning that we want closer cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy, of course in respect of the areas we have taken home. I would like to thank the rest of the government. Thank you to our good friends in the support parties. Thank you to the opposition. All of us are important pieces in the democracy of the people. So a heartfelt thanks to all of you for your cooperation. I would also like to express my thanks to all those who work behind the stage... the good officers of the Parliament, the cleaning staff, the Parliamentary Administration, everyone in this house who makes everyday life slip and allows us to focus on our work in a very good framework. So thank you so much. It is both a pleasure and an honor to be a part of. Qujanaq. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204235	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204243	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for a good speech. I would also like to reiterate today the congratulations to the rapporteur in a rather eventful spring, both to become chairman of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee and, of course, also to the election victory in Greenland. So congratulations. I would also like to take this opportunity today, when there are more eyes on the debate on Greenland, to tell you a little about the fact that we are experiencing very good and constructive cooperation with the rapporteur's party on a daily basis. The second party in the coalition in Greenland or the supporting party, Atassut, which is our sister party, also has a very constructive approach to the kingdom community. It is just to say that cooperation is therefore much better than the image you sometimes get when you read about it in the media, where it is only the conflicts that fill, you feel a little like Greenland's rapporteur. In this spirit, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will not point out some areas where the rapporteur thinks that for the common good, in other words for the benefit of both Greenland and Denmark, perhaps we can increase cooperation within the Kingdom Community and strengthen the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204347	Thank you for the comments and for the words. I agree very much. I also see that there is good cooperation and a huge goodwill from the government. Then it may well be that there are some matters that you have to fight for a little, but that is the way it is in politics, so I see that much can be done. I think it is important that young people in Denmark get some more knowledge about Greenland. This is something I have said countless times from the platform, but it is such a very concrete thing, and I know that DUF, the Danish Youth Council, has some good initiatives that we will certainly support. I also hope that the parties here in the Folketing will help to support that we have some money allocated to it in the Finance Act. So that is some of what we are looking forward to in concrete terms. I would therefore very much like to see more Greenlanders coming to work. I think it is a very concrete and good area to focus on. And then there's this business development thing in Greenland. It is absolutely, absolutely crucial that our economy is strengthened in Greenland, so that is something we will certainly look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204446	Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204448	Thank you so much. Now my esteemed colleague is Mr. Bertel Haarder is present in this Chamber, and he has a great deal of focus on border barriers. One of those he has recently raised and has also asked me to look at is these roaming charges within the Kingdom Community. In the European Union, a solution has been found that allows you to travel cross-country and use your mobile phone without being met by a huge mobile bill. What is the rapporteur's position that we should also look at it internally in the Kingdom Community? It's sir. Bertel Haarder's view is that if we can find out in the European Union, we must also be able to find out in the Kingdom Community. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204524	Thank you very much. Again, I agree, and this has also been registered by the government as a barrier to borders, so that is something that is being worked on. The interesting thing is that it is actually not very expensive to call from Greenland to Denmark, but it is expensive the other way. It is, of course, because it takes place under competitive conditions, and there are probably not as many calling Greenland as there are calling from Greenland to all sorts of other major countries. But it is an obstacle and I think it is important to look at how we can make it easier to communicate within the Kingdom community. That must be the political objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204601	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go. Are we having a problem with the technique?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204615	There it is. Well, thank you. Thank you for a good speech, and thank you for your cooperation during the year. We have had some good meetings and exciting discussions, you might say, during the year that has passed. At least that's something I've really appreciated. There is no doubt that the Social Democratic Party is a party that would like to join the Kingdom and would also like to have a strong kingdom community. That is why I am very pleased that the rapporteur acknowledges the wish to extend the Community. This is something I think is going to be exciting to discuss in the future too. However, I also hear that the rapporteur mentions that there is a desire to see a greater climate engagement in the Folketing and in Denmark. At any rate, I hope that the rapporteur will be able to sign off on the fact that in Denmark there is a government with enough the most ambitious climate target in the world at the moment, namely a 70-percent reduction by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204707	Thank you very much. I would like to say first of all that in Greenland too we are fighting for Greenland to be able to accede to the Paris Agreement. At least that is what a large majority wants at home in Greenland. And that makes perfect sense when we are such a window in relation to the climate consequences, you might say. Yes, of course the government is doing a very good job. It is also just important to emphasise that it is not only people who live in the Arctic and are deeply affected and affected by these climate change that can solve it alone, but it is extremely important that you also cooperate. And there you can say that it is very good that there are some very ambitious objectives, but it is of course also important to be able to deliver on the objectives that you set yourself. So this is something we are pushing for, just as I know that many support parties are also pushing for honouring the objectives we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204755	Sir. Kasper Roug, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204758	Thank you. But I would also say a little that since we have been so positive about the Kingdom community, which is also a special construction, we have to say that we have the opportunity to support each other and help each other as much as possible. And then I would like to ask how the rapporteur thinks that we can use the Commonwealth to increase this climate engagement, among other things. in Greenland, so we can start fighting against this violent climate change that you are experiencing in the Arctic area at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204832	Thank you. I think this is very central. I really think that you could get inspired and share knowledge with Greenland about this sustainable business development, which is indeed something Denmark is in the process of becoming a pioneer country for. Could there be, for example: be data centres in Greenland qua the nature we have and the temperatures we have in Greenland? Are there such alternatives? I have mentioned it here with Greenland Greenhouse many times, which is such a container shipping so that self-sufficiency can be increased. I think that is interesting opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204906	Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602204911	First congratulations to IA on having won the power of government in Greenland, and first of all I would like to congratulate Greenland on now having a government that has strong ambitions on behalf of the environment, climate and social justice. And, of course, once again a personal congratulations to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen on becoming President of the Arctic parliamentarians. What I want to talk about here is the almost insatiable appetite of the United States for influence in the Arctic. And it is clear that Biden and Blinken are different from Trump and Pompeo, but how far along the way does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen estimate that this is not just a slightly nicer wrapping and a slightly more friendly language, but that the iron fist can still be felt behind the velvet glove? So how much difference is there in reality between them and how does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen view the long-term interests of the United States in relation to the Arctic and Greenland in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205011	Thank you. First of all, it is said from the American side that presence is equal to influence, so it is a very clear strategic desire to have greater influence; also to win the hearts and brains, as they call it in Greenland. So you're very clear about what you want. And I do not think we should be naive in that when the Americans are more present, it is not only because we want initiatives from the people of Europe, but, of course, it is because we have a military focus. I met with the new American consul, who will be in Greenland, here earlier today, where we had a talk. It is important to us that we find, like what to say, that there is a balance in working with some with whom we share a great many common values, partly also common goals of peace in the Arctic, but also where there is not always a positive story when you look at the relationship between Greenland and the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205116	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205118	But I fully agree with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen that there is certainly no reason to be naive, not at all in relation to the United States. Of course, they have clear interests in which they are now trying to get themselves pushed into. And, as the rapporteur himself says, first of all it is something about winning the people, massaging public opinion, and in the longer term there is the desire for more military presence. But what's more important here? Is it not more important to maintain the declarations of Igaliku and Ilulissat than it is to fall on the tail of this offensive from the United States? It sounds friendly, but in substance it is the same policy that Trump and Pompeo stood for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205150	I see that there is respect for Igaliku and Ilulissat, and of course I think it is important to stick to that, because we want peace in the region. And it has also been important for the new Naala Suisut to say: nothing about us without us. It is a motto that IA has also used here in the Folketing many times. We want Greenland to be involved in negotiations; we want Greenland to play a greater role in foreign and security policy. But these are also the notes I hear from the government. So it's positive. So the interaction within the Kingdom community has to be strong to resist these interests from the outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205227	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205235	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech, and thank you for your productive cooperation. It is a pleasure to work with IA in the Folketing, but also outside the Folketing, I think, when we meet in the contexts that are possible to meet in. I would also like to congratulate all the successes that have been for the party lately, not least that it actually succeeded in making concrete political agreements across the parties and governments that have been. It's an impressive job. I also thought it was good that the Americans would no longer buy Greenland. I look forward to the day when they will no longer be demanding military armament from Denmark and Greenland, because I think it was a scandal that they dictated that we should spend 1.5 billion. kr. On arms build-up. I know it's on the soft end, but still. I would like to ask the rapporteur what she is saying about the government leader's offer this morning at 9 a.m. 9.15 on closer cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy. In what areas does the rapporteur consider this important?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205339	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205341	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that the need for increased surveillance in the Arctic is something that has been quite clear since 2016, when this Arctic analysis came, so at least this is something that IA supports. I think this Arctic capacity package actually has a very good focus, because it is precisely in respect of the Ilulissat agreement and the work for low-voltage in the area. After all, we have discussed various forums in the past, including within the Commonwealth, in terms of talking about security policy and foreign policy, and whether this is something we need to strengthen. The governments are working closely together, I understand, but what I may miss is that parliaments are somehow also being thought into it, and especially at home in Greenland, I would like to see the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security, which we call the USPU or NASA on a daily basis in Greenlandic terms, played a greater role, just as the Foreign Policy Nævn, for example. Do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205442	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205444	Yes, but there was a concrete offer that security and foreign policy cooperation should be increased. That is why I was wondering which areas the Greenlanders would like to see. I can understand the desire for increased parliamentary cooperation. I suppose you could also have a parliamentary assembly in the Kingdom Community, which several forces have mentioned as an opportunity when we have discussed Greenland and the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205509	This is certainly one of the things that could be very interesting, so it includes both governments and parliaments. Now I know that there will soon be a Kingdom meeting where the various leaders from the three areas of the Kingdom community will meet and discuss some general issues. So you could hope to see if there's anything else we can do. Is there anything more we can do, also to have these secure lines, so we have the opportunity to talk more often? Because it certainly seems that the need is increasing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205542	Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205547	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for a very good speech from the rapporteur with five clear points, and above all congratulations on the election and on being nominated for the Dialogue Prize at the People's Meeting, and thanks for the always good dialogues. The first issue focuses on climate, the green transition, but also on the need to invest and create jobs and develop business. As far as Arctic cooperation is concerned, the rapporteur thus sees the possibility of foreign investment meeting the Paris agreement and of green business development meeting the Paris agreement, for example. imports and exports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205630	Thank you very much and thank you very much for your words and also for your cooperation. First of all, in relation to the People's Meeting's Dialogue Prize, let me say that no one from Greenland or the Faroe Islands has ever been nominated for that award, and I just feel so happy and honored, and I feel that it is almost Greenland that has won the prize also in respect of my fellow nominees. So it's big, and I hope I'm not the first, but that I've stepped some footsteps, so there are more from Greenland and the Faroe Islands who are nominated. Because it is important that you also look that way and also look at the work we do for the Kingdom community. Then I think it is quite natural that we think in CSR and think in SDG And it is really such a natural thing when we talk about sustainable business development that it is thought in and that it is somehow structured. And there I actually have a pretty big hope. Because there are a lot of good businessmen who run the CSR agenda more than it is politically. So I actually think I can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205738	Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205740	Thank you. If I may jump to something else: it is about the fact that we in the Arctic Five have always had strong diplomatic cooperation, peaceful cooperation. But with America's growing interest in Greenland, there is also an increasing interest in the Kingdom community. At the same time, there is Russia and China on the other side. How does the rapporteur see the use of the Commonwealth to deal with the strong cross-pressure from one side to the other? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205811	Thank you very much. I had a meeting with the American consul here earlier today, as I mentioned. And one of the things that was actually important for me to tell you was that the kingdom community is, of course, the construction that is there now, and that most likely will also be there a number of years ahead, towards Greenland, hopefully at some point, becoming independent. And that is why, of course, I think it is important for the Americans, for the Chinese and for all sorts of others to respect that there is a framework, and I think it actually keeps some of these interests out in a rather stretched arm. And then it has to be said that we are both dealing with Russia and China, and we must, of course, be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205855	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205901	Thank you. It is absolutely fantastic to listen to all the congratulations that come to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, and in particular I just want to vote in favour of the price of dialogue. It is a fully deserved nomination, especially because it is also through dialogue that the IA has achieved so many results here in the Folketing, so congratulations. I would like to comment on some of the points raised by Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, precisely in relation to the Paris Agreement. This is something we have discussed before in this Parliament: accession from Greenland to the Paris Agreement. And that is why we are serious about joining the international climate policy game. I would like to know whether the rapporteur can say anything more in relation to the Paris Agreement and whether Greenland will join it wholeheartedly and sign it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602205951	At least that's what IA went to the polls on, and IA got a lot of support, so I have a clear expectation of that. I wish I could stand here and say that we have now acceded to the Paris Agreement and that the work is under way. But there are a great many tasks, and it is of course also with a certain humility that IA has acquired the power of government at home in Greenland. Because there are a lot of tasks that require attention. However, I can promise the rapporteur that this is something in which I will continue to press, because I think it is extremely important that we also take our global responsibility, even if we are not very many in Greenland, so that everyone does what they can in relation to the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602210031	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602210032	In any case, the rapporteur must welcome when she comes home to Greenland and say that we would like to congratulate her on the Paris agreement in the next final debate. But it is precisely because we are concerned about how to start working that it is not only business that is driving development, but also that we can continue to push it politically. And that, I hope, is what joining the Paris agreement by Greenland could be part of. And green business development must not only be driven by forces other than democratic ones. In other words, democracy must be part of this, and it is certainly my hope that it will be pushed on that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602210107	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602210109	Thank you very much. There are calculations that show that it will cost 13 billion. kr. to accede to the Paris Agreement. And, of course, there are some calculations and some considerations that need to be considered. But I also believe that there is something to be gained, and I also believe that talking about green business development is becoming more and more mainstream and something that becomes natural: that you expect it, of course, when you set some different projects in motion. So this is the way to go, and it is also the way that Greenland wants to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602210137	Then we thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. There are no more brief comments. And then it's Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602210156	Thank you. The summer is upon us, and behind us lies a long winter, a beautiful spring and a different but educational parliamentary year. But now it is late in the day and you listen to another speaker, and sometimes I think a little bit about whether there is any listening at all. Tusarnaartoqarnerluni. Well, is there any point in it at all? Iluaqutaanerluni. What I have learned in the last two years since I was elected is that far too few politicians actually have a political objective for which they can stand. Too many make compromises which are actually in direct contrast to their electorate, which is not right. We represent all different areas of the Danish kingdom, also known as the Kingdom Community between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. We have different peoples within the realm with each of our expressions and each of our sets of values, but seen from the outside, the construction of the realm may seem a little incomprehensible, because, as far as others can see, still under the same state, we have the same citizenship, and people believe that it is a fairly homogeneous society, but it is important that we all respect the fact that we live under different sets of values, despite the fact that we all live under the same state of unity. When, as I do, you work for a minority in the realm, a minority representing the largest geographical part of the realm, that part of the realm that is geopolitically most focused on in relation to the actions and wishes of the various great powers, then I find it difficult to understand that we have still not been able to achieve the necessary equality and respect between the individual parts of the realm. Because it is a fact that we are not equal partners, that we do not have equal opportunities and that we do not accept each other's differences and we must therefore change that. In Greenland, many of us regard ourselves as a Greenlandic people within the Danish kingdom. We accept the recognition we have received almost 12 years ago in the United Nations, and we await the day when, in one or another structural way or another, we are recognised as a state with a right of sovereignty over its own country, whether it happens in a federal cooperation with Denmark, in a free association, with full sovereignty or another technical, political way, it is insofar as the matter in this speech is subordinate to it. But on the road to the goal, we are constantly part of the Danish Kingdom with the issues we share, and that is not enough. For we are all subject to the Kingdom, but some have more of the community than others. Today there has been a debate about the right and duty, and as long as Denmark takes on several responsibilities for Greenland, it is not only a right but a duty for all members of parliament that they should actively engage in the responsibilities that Denmark carries out. With the major social challenges, the international challenges of industry and the security policy challenges that exist, close cooperation between us is required. The needs are so pronounced that it should very much lift the eyebrows of the comrades we have in the realm, especially when a large part of the challenges still fall to Denmark as responsibilities. There is great inequality, and I can make a longer speech about some studies that justify that there may be a link between inequality and our common history, but whatever it is due to, regardless of how it has arisen, it is a fact and a reality that we should talk about and put on the agenda, and something that should be discussed more openly between the naalaksususut in Greenland and the government in Denmark and here diplomacy is the key word. However, many diplomatic mistakes are still being made which are constantly based on cultural differences. After all, lack of response is not equal to acceptance, and ordinary courtesy in discussions is not always the same as consensus. I cannot tell you how many times I analyze and try to imitate the Danish cultural way of interacting in an attempt to engage in better diplomatic cooperation in my daily life at Christiansborg. But the fact is that I am Greenlandic, and that also means that I cannot be Danish. This means that we can have different ways of interacting with each other in working life, in everyday life. In other words, we have a different culture and we should, on the part of both sides, overcome the gulfs that are actually present and that are rooted in our cultural differences. When I in the Danish Parliament listen to the debates that prevail, for example, about: I wonder if Greenland has too generous an understanding and acceptance of other cultures in Greenland without always protecting our own culture? So there we can be inspired by Denmark, to a certain extent, because on the other hand I also believe that I do not always entirely agree with the hostile way outsiders are shown, which I also often encounter in the Folketing. Maybe we can find a middle ground. Perhaps Denmark could learn a little from us in Greenland in terms of our ability to let foreign cultures into our society and let them feel welcome, just as we can also learn from the Danes to protect our own identity and culture in connection with integrating outsiders, so this is done under our conditions and not under the conditions of the outsiders or other people. Perhaps we can actually support one another and lift one another while continuing to work on the basis of who we are, as inuit or Danish. Recently, gloomy stories have come from Canada about children, our kinsmen, who for many generations were exploited, abused, thrown into mass graves as if they were beasts. These are scary stories of genocide that we thought happened only in the past, during World War II, a past that lies behind us generations, or in states that in no way resemble democracies. But no, the reality is that this has happened until the mid-1990s. And with regard to these stories, which are very scary and completely unparalleled, I stand here in solidarity with our Inuit companions and also urge the Danish Government not only to let these facts be ignored, especially when foreign policy is still a Danish responsibility. We have also had many unpleasant experiences in Greenland until the introduction of the actual home government. They do not tolerate comparison with the ones in Canada for that but it does not make them less serious. Today we have a Prime Minister who not only recognises the good times but also the dark times, and therefore committed a historic achievement and apologized back in December for the inhuman treatment that Greenlandic children had also experienced. An apology for which Kalaallit has been fighting for decades became reality, for as long as we have been part of the kingdom and as long as we are here, we must be treated on an equal footing with the rest of the kingdom. As everyone in the Chamber is aware, these years there has also been a greater focus on the Arctic around the world. upheavals around the world have always had an effect on our cooperation, and it seems that the greater focus on the Arctic does not make the cooperation less significant. A recent agreement has been reached on an Arctic capacity package, which is the Kingdom's possible future Arctic strategy, and the Arctic must also be discussed at the forthcoming NATO summit and while Danish media call Denmark an Arctic power, I would like to remind you that Greenland is the reason for the Kingdom's involvement in Arctic politics and that of course the Greenlandic people are the Kingdom's Arctic peoples. All of this is in itself positive, but I do not think it is particularly positive that Danes, including ministers, in the past, in recent decades, have drawn the kingdom on a political level, for example. Arctic Council. In Greenland we want a return to the situation in the 1990s and 00s, where Greenlandic politicians acted as heads of delegation on behalf of the Kingdom in the Arctic Council. This was a respectful and equal practice on the Danish side, and in a way it is a little ironic that when we try to obtain rights in Greenland or improve matters that have been neglected for years, perhaps for decades to once have to fight to rewind time a little back to a decade where we were actually more equal and equal than we are now. So when the Prime Minister says that on the basis of the security policy aspect it can be difficult to distinguish between what is Greenlandic, Danish and Faroese responsibility, then we from Greenland seriously look at such a statement. In the coming parliamentary year, let us really and factually enter into a dialogue with the government, the Naala Suisut and Greenlandic politicians on the possibilities for a better foreign policy and security policy solution that lasts in the long term and where there is no doubt as to where responsibilities belong. Let Greenland be an active party in the negotiations that are going to be, whether it is in here inside the realm or whether it is foreign policy. Let Greenlandic politicians and Naalaksuisut be a direct part of it with Naalaksuisut as a pen driver. Let us as people enter into dialogue with the other stakeholders in areas that concern us. We look forward to good cooperation in the coming parliamentary year. And I will allow myself to wish you guys a happy summer vacation when we get there. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211121	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211125	Thank you very much for your speech to the rapporteur. It is always with great enthusiasm that the rapporteur advocates Greenland's position. I respect that very much. There is no doubt that the rapporteur points out that these are three peoples and three cultures. And yes, it has been confirmed many times from both the Social Democracy of course, but also from the government. Of course it is, and there is great respect for that too. There is no doubt that I sense that there is a great pain in Inuit people. Now the rapporteur himself mentions the mass grave, as it is somewhere else, in Canada, where there are some orphanage children who over time maybe 100 years, we do not know it has yet been killed, quite simply. Of course, I also have a great deal of sympathy for that pain. However, I would also like to say that we have a principle in the Kingdom community. I think it is important that we also advocate it. It's pretty important to my party. After all, we have different competences. Do we not have the opportunity to use the skills to counter...
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211241	Now we're gonna finish it. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211243	After all, I did not get the last of the question, but yes, I do not think that at any point in time there has actually been a Greenlandic parliamentarian or a Greenlandic politician who has simply thought that one cannot benefit from each other. I simply do not believe that. However, when you draw attention to some issues, it is because there are some things that we can still do much better. Hopefully that is why we are also becoming politicians, in other words to do things even better than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211318	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211318-2	Then I'll try to make it much faster. We have a tough president today, and that's great. The rapporteur also mentions, in the context of security policy, that the Prime Minister mentioned that there are many things that will overlap. Does the rapporteur not sense that there is a great deal of goodwill on the part of the government in wanting to look at common tasks and common solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211342	Yes, and we are grateful for that goodwill, but on the other hand one also sometimes thinks that some of the things we are so deeply grateful for are things that should have been a matter of course always.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211356	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211400	Thank you for that, thank you for your speech, and thank you for your cooperation on a daily basis. It is, of course, a terrible story that we see in Canada and to which the rapporteur refers. We agree, of course, that it is the fault of the past, just as we agree that, of course, wrong things have also happened in the Kingdom community, but then, as the rapporteur has said, it has succeeded in better coexistence, and the Greenlanders have managed to maintain their cultural identity better than, for example, that. has happened in the United States and Canada. So when you look at it in the light of history, you have to say that after all, there is something that has gone better in our relationship than there are so many other places. So, of course, I am pleased with the recognition of that too. That said, of course, we need to work all the time to understand each other better so that we can work for our common good, so I really want to hear something from the rapporteur. The former Left Government, for example, set down a system of sanctions. Is there any other initiative that the rapporteur sees as possible to improve the understanding of each other within the community?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211505	Firstly, I would also like to thank you for your cooperation. It is absolutely true that this is an incredibly terrible situation that we have lived under up to the 1990s, because it is absolutely mass murder and, of course, it is not something that we have seen from Greenland. Leave it there. In relation to a strengthened understanding of each other, it is at least essential that we create a structural framework both in terms of the political framework, that MEPs can also meet across, but also in terms of the population, so that Danish people in particular learn more about Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and that we from Greenland and Faroese also learn more about each other, because we do not know enough about each other at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211555	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211556	Thank you for that, and we fully agree that this is something we need to get going, and hopefully together we can focus on how to increase understanding for each other's people and for each other's cultures, because that is something that will only improve cooperation. Are there any areas in which the rapporteur sees, as I also asked the previous rapporteur, that it may be beneficial for both countries for us to strengthen cooperation, to work a little closer together for the common good?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211628	Yeah, totally. The first thing we in Parliament should focus on is the 36 responsibilities which have often been neglected. It is very much about security policy, but also about business policy, also at international level, because when there are some entrepreneurs in Greenland who also want an official market to the rest of the globalised world, you often encounter blockades, and that is a matter of parliament. There are a lot of things we need to look at, and it is not enough that two members of Greenland's parliament should be responsible for it alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211705	Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211708	The question I would like to ask may at first sound like a small thing, but I know that it means a great deal to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, and it does, strictly speaking, also to myself. I recently read a column which Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam had written in which it was problematical that a number of place names on fjords and mountains in Greenland have Danish names and, as I read the rapporteur's column, it was seen in a context where it was the expression of Danish supremacy and that it destroyed the sense of community. As a matter of fact, I can follow it along the way with the feeling that living in a country with its own language can be violent, where there is another country that was colonial power that has named fjords and mountains, but am I not right in saying that the right to decide place names passed over to Greenland 38 years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211801	That is very funny, because it sounds a little like a column being referred to, which was an answer to my debate. What I specifically wrote was: Try to imagine that the situation had been reversed; if we really want this kind of kingdom community, and if you really think it's a fantastic kingdom community, let's as a picture just for fun swap roles for 300 years. And then I gave an example where I said: What if fields in Denmark had Greenlandic names, and all road signs were in Greenlandic, and even though the Danes spoke Danish at home, they were allowed to speak Greenlandic only in schools and in workplaces. It was just an example, but I am aware of what the situation and facts are like in everyday life in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211850	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211851	As I said, I can actually follow the thinking, i.e. it can be provocative or challenging that you live in a country with your own language, but still live with so many place names that are left behind by a former colonial power. I understand. What I do not understand is why the rapporteur writes it in a column where the title speaks of Danish supremacy. I would like us to conclude by saying that Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam confirms that Greenland can therefore decide completely what fjords and mountains are called in Greenland for 38 years, and for the vast majority of time the rapporteur's own party has been in power. So why didn't you just change it instead of going and being mad about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602211926	Sorry, it sounds almost as if the author has not read my speech at all, because I have never written myself that there should be Danish supremacy. But journalists have the freedom to write any headline they like, but leave it now, because at no time have I mentioned in the article that Greenlandic mountains cannot have Greenlandic names now, because they have, and I have not said anything else at any time. However, thank you for your recognition and understanding, and I am pleased that my contribution to the debate has also given the understanding that I wanted it to give.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212001	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212003	Yes, I can even tell you that if you take such a short journey as to South Jutland, there is a great battle there about whether there can be a sign in German at all, which tells what the old cities are called in German, next to the Danish. It can make the minds feel wild, and that is where the local authorities decide. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether she would like to clarify her words a little. In other words, Greenland has the privilege of being able to take back matters other than that of foreign and security policy to the extent one wishes. If the rapporteur were to decide, what would be the first three or four areas to be taken home by Greenland and which the rapporteur thinks the Greenlanders would have preferred to have taken home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212051	Now, of course, I must be careful to generalise, but first of all, thank you very much for the question, a very interesting question, and for the recognition and understanding of the situation we often find ourselves in. The three things that we in the party have discussed may be very important to take over are, firstly, the Food and Agriculture Authority, because we have a great many entrepreneurs who create innovative food industries but who, unfortunately, cannot get their products directly onto the market, even if, for example, they do not. is FDA-Approved in the United States. It will have to go through a Danish port, which weakens the process and may end up with the fact that you cannot really go further. Another thing, of course, is foreign and integration policy, which we also often talk about in Siumut, since we have to modernise the way we interact with each other. We must also talk about citizenship in the future. The third and final point is also foreign policy, which is a very important issue for a great many Greenlanders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212153	I would just like to point out that there is relatively much talk here in the front rows, and it's a little annoying up here. Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212201	It may be that it is because of interest in the subject that you sit and talk. Anyway, I would also like to thank Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam for the constructive debate we have at times in the Folketing. It is an enrichment for the Folketing to have both the two Greenlandic members down here it is absolutely certain. The thing about refugees and integration sounds interesting. Would it be the case that Greenland could take some of the refugees that the Danes or at least the current Danish government will certainly not take? Then it might be that we could have an icebreaker, a bridge builder in Greenland, who could change the attitude of the Danish Social Democrat towards refugees. It could be exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212241	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212242	That is a very interesting question. When we have talked about immigration and integration policies, it is simply also to maintain our culture and identity. It is also because we are talking about state formation and, in the case of state formation, we also have to talk about citizenship. We are talking about the fact that we often lack labour, for example. trained and qualified doctors, and in this context we can only go through the Danish system because it must be Danish citizens who can be allowed to work in Greenland. We would like to break with this because we believe that there is a large market for talented people that we lack, who want to be integrated, who want to learn the Greenlandic language and who want to respect our culture. We would like to take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212322	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212324	Thank you very much for a actually very good speech, I think, which had many good thoughts, with which I myself could very much agree. I thought it was really exciting to listen to. In relation to the question of Danish presence in Greenland, I think that the rapporteur is going a little too far in relation to making it almost as if it were unnatural that, for example, there was a situation in Greenland. is a lot of Greenlandic place names, which are Danish. The reason for this is that it is Danes who have mapped Greenland. It's not like it's unnatural. In the same way, it is quite right for the rapporteur to say that Denmark is only an Arctic power because of Greenland. I fully agree with that, but I think that Greenland is only Greenland today because of Denmark. East Greenland would not belong to Greenland if it were not because of Denmark. Then it would belong to Norway or to another great power that would have set itself on it. So I think one could recognise that Greenland is also more because of Denmark, and not only that it is Denmark that has something out of the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212434	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212435	First of all, I would like to thank you for your recognition. It means a lot that we can find common ground in order to be able to talk further in our dialogue between each other. The place names and some of the other things weren't so much what my speech was all about. But to go into this a little bit, I would say that I think we can always find something worthy of recognition to say about each other. But in the same way it can be said that Denmark would not have been anything without Greenland. Denmark wouldn't have been that Arctic great power, as they call it, without Greenland. And you can't make speculations, compared to if Greenland had actually had political power over time and could make negotiations itself, in terms of whether it really would have looked different compared to East Greenland. That is to say, it is only speculation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212523	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212524	It is true that it is difficult to say for sure how history would have evolved. Would Greenland have developed into a large nation with millions of people who had been large enough to withstand the pressure of the great powers of themselves without Denmark having been up there? So that does not seem to be the case. So it hasn't. And very concretely, Denmark has taken a lot of battles for Greenland. We are fighting at the moment, and we are spending an incredible amount of effort and resources to ensure that the North Pole will belong to Greenland. So Greenland gets bigger because of Danish efforts, and I just think it would be nice to recognise instead of making it look as if only Denmark has something out of its presence up there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212608	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212608-2	Well, I'm pretty sure that Denmark is making these negotiations to make Denmark bigger. And that is because right now it is a Danish territory that is being fought for. Otherwise it would have been Greenland sitting at this negotiating table to discuss these things. Having said that, however, I fully agree that we can always find something on which we can agree. We can always find something for which we can recognise each other, and of course we must also improve. I can also say that half my family is Danish. I can just see a difference between my Danish and my Greenlandic family, compared to where the inequality lies, and that is why I became a politician.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212645	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212646	It's just a comment on the fact that we always have to look like each other. I love Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam's speech because she has the amazing ability to stand in her own right and insists that we should not be like each other and stick to it. It is, of course, such an injustice that we have on the Danish side that if we do not negotiate in Danish and the way we always do it, as we perceive as Danish and our tradition, we will actually find it extremely difficult to act in the environment. I would just like to quote Tina Dickow, who sings that you can take the girl out of Aarhus, but you can never take Aarhus out of the girl. And neither should you, and so is Greenland, because we have to respect that here, and I think it's wonderful to hear that you can't take Greenland out of the girl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212739-2	Thank you very much for your recognition, and the more different political positions that are beginning to emerge here and there in the Folketing, the more refreshing it is, and I also believe that some form of diversity is needed, because, just as we are in a globalised world, we also need to talk in different cultural forms, and recognition here is certainly very important to me. I think it is important that we start focusing on some of these issues. One of the things I also put on the agenda today was precisely integration and immigration policy, and that is because in the Greenlandic Parliament you can talk from the platform in your mother tongue, and when I was about to write my speech, I couldn't get myself to do it, so I had to write it in Greenlandic first and then translate it, and then I just get the feeling sometimes of why I can't just go up here and talk in my own language.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212836	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, which is why we thank Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Then it's mr. Edmund Joensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602212856	Thank you. We stand here today looking back at the parliamentary year that has passed. It has been a year marked by Corona, but also a year marked by cooperation, which has appeared in several contexts, also between the Kingdom parts. I will take a look at the attention that has been paid to the Faroe Islands in recent years. It is 18 small green islands in the middle of the vastly VAT-free Atlantic which almost no one, apart from our Nordic neighbours, knows anything about. Or that was the case once, for that is certainly no longer the case. It is very possible that the private American, Chinese or Russian does not know about the Faroe Islands, but I must promise that their governments, in turn, know very much about our existence. When the former American ambassador in Denmark, Carla Sands, not only one, but several times during her term of office, sat on a plane headed for the Faroe Islands, it was not to enjoy the Faroese nature, nor was that the purpose of the Chinese ambassador's visit in 2019 a visit which, moreover, attracted great attention throughout the Kingdom community. We have seen the same pattern in Greenland in recent years. The international attention paid to the northern part of the Kingdom community has been and is still enormous. The Chinese wanted to finance a new airport in Greenland, and the United States set up a consulate in Nuuk and sent a sum of money to Greenland to give it an economic boost during the corona crisis, not to mention the purchase offer to Greenland from the former US President Donald Trump. This great attention is, of course, due to the role of the Arctic and the Kingdom as an Arctic state. In other words, the eyes of the whole world are directed at the North Atlantic and the kingdom of Denmark, especially the northern parts of the kingdom. The balance of power in the kingdom is about to tip over to the northern parts of the Kingdom. This is no longer a guesswork, but a bell-clear statement which was seriously made clear by the American Foreign Minister's visit in May. For the second time within a year, the Greenlandic and Faroese Foreign Affairs Ministers were meeting with the American Foreign Minister, and this is historic, but not random. The Faroe Islands and Greenland in particular have gained more weight in a geopolitical context, more than ever before. But what does this statement mean for the Kingdom community? It means that we are in the middle of a turning-point, where we have to find a way to create the Kingdom community 2.0, as it is called in modern languages, i.e. an update or modernisation of our historical community. The balance of power that is being talked about must be reflected in each country's ability to act, but also to some extent in how we act together. So we need to find a way to find solutions together when internal conflicts of interest arise • solutions in which all three parts of the empire can see themselves. It is in this way that we can together be a great power under the Arctic. In other words, we are dealing with a ghost that we keep quiet about, but which we need to talk about. Because, as the old Greenlandic proverb says, if you keep quiet about a ghost, it just grows bigger. Each of us has no power, but together we are a great power. Here I will again address the former Arctic Ambassador Peter Taksøe-Jensen's quote that the greatest threat to Danish interests in the Arctic is not the Russians, but the prospect that the cohesion of the empire will be weakened. For it is more crucial than ever that we reach an internal agreement on the United Foreign and Security Policy line, and that is why the current course of involvement and information sharing between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands must be strengthened. It is essential that the dialogue between the parts of the kingdom be improved and that we work towards establishing common red lines internally. If we do not do so, it is no longer the Russians, according to Taksøe-Jensen, who are the greatest threat to Danish interests in the Arctic, but the prospect that the cohesion of the kingdom community will be weakened. We need to face up to the fact that the balance of power in the Kingdom community must in fact be divided into all three parts of the kingdom. In this way, we will really have a close, resilient and sustainable kingdom community. With a greater power comes, of course, a greater responsibility, and the Faroe Islands will have to be aware of their responsibilities. In other words, adult foreign and security policy decisions must be taken, and we must stop being naive about foreign and security policy. I believe that will happen over time, and the Faroe Islands will grow with the task. However, this requires the Danish Government to be willing to loosen the hand brake and to see opportunities and solutions in these challenges. The Danish Government could, for example: start by showing good will in another matter, namely fulfilling the Faroese desire to have full membership in the Nordic Council. The Constitution is not an obstacle to this, but it requires a political will, especially on the part of the Danish Government. This applies both when it comes to the specific matter with the Nordic Council, but also in the field of foreign and security policy as a whole. Finally, I would like to thank the government and the whole parliament for their good cooperation during the last parliamentary year. It has been a good political year and I can say with pride and joy that we have helped to break down more border barriers. Also a great thank you to the government and the parties of the Danish Parliament, which have provided funding for a study of the conditions of the Criminal Services in the Faroe Islands, funds for a bus to the Trivselfunden for Patienthotellet Torshavn, information about the Kingdom through a film pool and the completion of the Faroese-Greenland dictionary. I look forward to continued good cooperation with the entire Danish Parliament and would like to wish all my colleagues a good summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602213819	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602213822	Thank you. Thank you for your speech and thank you for your good cooperation during the year. I think, in fact, that what the rapporteur says, namely that we do not have any power separately, but that together we are a great power, describes the Kingdom community very well. But I also hope, of course, that the rapporteur will, in turn, be a little more specific about how we can create a community of kingdoms 2.0. It sounds really exciting and recognises that this is exactly what the government is working towards; this is the principle that when we have common tasks, we also have to find common solutions within the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602213900	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602213903	Thank you. And thank you for the good words. I fully agree that we need to find solutions so that we stick together in the Kingdom community; for that is as true as it has been said: that together we are a great power in the Arctic, but separately we are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602213930	Sir. Kasper Roug? No. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602213933	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank you for the good speech I could not agree with more. We must remember to address why the Kingdom community is an advantage for all three countries. For Denmark, it is all about the fact that, in addition to our cultural and historical community, we have a seat at the big table, I had almost said, and for the Faroe Islands and Greenland it is all about Denmark having some bigger muscles to help with, so that we can carry out some tasks together in a better way. I would like to ask the rapporteur one of the tasks in which I think that Denmark might be able to make a little more active efforts, namely in relation to trade agreements. Could the rapporteur see a role there for Denmark in making an even more active effort for a new trade agreement with the EU and the United States, which could, of course, also help to improve the security policy situation for the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214027	Thank you. Yes, the Faroe Islands absolutely need a free trade agreement with the EU, for example. In other words, the Faroe Islands are currently selling most raw materials to the world, that is to say to the European Union, to China, to Russia and to the United States. There is no doubt that the Faroese economy could grow much stronger if we had free trade with the EU countries in particular, so that we might be able to relieve Russia, which has been part of the spotlight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214117	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214118	Thank you. I totally agree. Now I can see that both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister are here today. I know that they are working hard on this, so I hope that this is an agenda that we will really tackle. Like the rapporteur, I believe that it is essential for the Kingdom Community and for our common security that we can help each other with such things. So it was really just a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214144	I know that the Layerman has brought the matter before the Prime Minister and that the Prime Minister has brought the matter before von der Leyen at the highest level. So the Danish Government has done what it could do today. But what happens more and what can be done more, we must see, but of course we must all lift that burden.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214219	Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214222	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very good speech that came around well. It was also said that we should create a community of kingdoms 2.0. And former US Foreign Minister Pompeo stated in 2019 that there is now a new era for strategic interests in the Arctic, including, of course, the Faroe Islands. So it gives us precisely a need to look at security policy and the Commonwealth in a completely new way. And I think I heard the rapporteur stress the need for us to stand together, including in foreign policy. At the same time, however, I would also like to hear from the rapporteur: how best does it balance the Faroese side that we stand together in foreign policy, with the interests that the Faroe Islands may have in order to attract investment, both for their own industry and also for resources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214323	It is a big question, but of course the Faroe Islands are interested in making themselves resourceful. It is already the Faroe Islands, and for the first time the Faroe Islands are roughly equal to Denmark when we talk about bnp per. citizen. But earnings in the Faroe Islands vary according to the fish stocks and the market, so it fluctuates a lot. At the moment, however, things are good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214417	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214418	Thank you. I have one more brief question. It is in relation to the foreign policy situation, to stand together and then to invest, and to focus on Russia and China. But what is it like with regard to the European Community, where we see an increasing interest from many of the countries of the European Union also towards the North Atlantic. How does the rapporteur view the potential here to develop a stronger economic community that way, and in which areas in relation to the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214500-2	Thank you. The Faroe Islands have a simple trade agreement with the EU at the moment. In other words, we sell raw materials mostly to the European Union. But the EU has an open market for the Faroe Islands, so there is a major imbalance in trade relations with the Faroe Islands, and that is precisely what we need to remedy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214529	Thank you. Sir. Bertel Haarder, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214530	Thank you for a monumental fine speech with a well-argued defence of the Kingdom Community, and not just a defence, but with the strong reason that the more important the North Atlantic gets, the more important it is for all three kingdoms that we stick together in the Kingdom Community and thereby become more than three times one. We're gonna stay more together. Thank you also for the cooperation in the Nordic Council on the removal of border barriers between the parts of the Kingdom Community. I fully understand the desire for the Faroe Islands to have their own delegation, independent of Denmark, to the Nordic Council. I get it. I get it. We discussed it in session after session. This requires the acceptance of all the Nordic states, which is why it is not just Denmark. That's not what I'm gonna ask, sir. Edmund Joensen agrees with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214644	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214645	Thank you. Thanks for the words. I agree, but we had a question from Mr. Christian Juhl here the other day, who was answered in the Folketing. And I understood the answer so that the Constitution was no obstacle to the Faroe Islands' own participation in the Nordic Council as a full member. But what matters was whether the state, that is Denmark, would say yes. That's how I get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214741	Sir. Bertel Haarder, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214742	I agree that the Constitution does not prevent it, but it therefore requires agreement between the Nordic countries. As President of the Nordic Council, I wish we could do magic. But we have to agree on it all five.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214801	But thank you for the question. If Denmark says yes, then we can move on to the other Nordic countries and ask them the question, and that would help a great deal, I think. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214815	I see no one else who has asked for a brief comment, and that is why we thank Edmund Joensen. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602214839	Thank you. This platform is common, social, and not private, personal or intimate. But today I have to make an exception, because I have been made aware of some personal issues which I think it is best for me to present myself before some bloodthirsty journalist digs it out and makes it a big scandal. My role in this house is to be a North Atlantic counterweight to the Danish political and royal central power of the empire. The problem with the new insight I have gained is that I am Danish myself. I'm not just Danish; I'm royal. My brother has been searching our family for a long time, and it turns out that we come in a straight line from the Danes' sovereign and the most important king, Harald Bluetooth himself. I'm sure there are others in this room who came from, but I was supposed to be something else. Therefore, the new knowledge puts both my personal and my political life in a new perspective, and the many strange emotions it arouses extend from fear of being accused of double-playing to pride... pride that it was my family that united Denmark that began a fight with the very brutal practices of the 900s by introducing Christianity and thus started the long journey towards the rule of law that we know. Those who have read Frans G. Bengtsson's story about e.g. Harald Bluetooth in the legendary novels, Red Worm, knows what I'm talking about. In my family, we've always grown those books, and now I understand why. That's our family story. It's hilarious, but it's also horrifying to read about how feuds were settled by the fact that whoever could cut off his enemy's head was right. However, in the midst of all the cruelty, it has to be said that decisions were taken. When a head rolled, you moved on, and there we can learn something from the old Vikings not when it comes to rolling heads, but when it comes to moving on. There have been many stories in the press lately about too long waiting times in the judicial system. Neither the criminals nor their victims can make progress with their lives because they are waiting and waiting for the decisions of the courts. The judicial system is common to the whole realm, and we are also experiencing the problem in the Faroe Islands. I have spoken before about a large civil liability case that was raised against the management of a Danish bank in the Faroe Islands and its Danish daughter bank, both of which were declared bankrupt in the year 2010. A year ago, a final judgment was given in the case of the Danish daughter bank. The persons were acquitted, 9 years after the bank was declared bankrupt, and 7 years after the trial started. I will take it up again today, because the case of the Faroese bank is still running away, and now it is clear that after a verdict in the city court in 2019 the trial will start again in Østre Landsret in a year's time. The judgment is expected to fall in December 2022, i.e. after 10 years of legal proceedings and 12 years after the bank's bankruptcy. If you look at the second case and the success rate of Financial Stability in general, it is likely that the people will be acquitted, but that would be completely irrelevant. In the decade that has passed, the defendants have been convicted in the media and socially. They have paid a large personal price and they have lost their opportunities to act freely in business. Then it doesn't help that the Supreme Court finds you innocent. That doesn't give back 10 lost years. As they say in English: Justice delayed is justice Denied. When you're stuck in the masks of the justice system for so long, it's a judgment in itself. You're legally cleared, but you're convicted by the process. If the people were to be found guilty, they would have no earthly chance of paying back all the money anyway. There are no winners here. And yet, the cost of the case so far probably exceeds 100 million. kr., probably far more, and it is taxpayers who are bleeding. That is to say, while some people's legal certainty is lost in the process, there are others who score on the same process and therefore have an economic interest in it. It is not their fault, but when someone can gain financial gain from something that undermines legal certainty, the framework is not right. We should not interfere from here in the work of the judiciary, but we should set a time limit for how long the state can be after a person. It is a condition for maintaining our most basic principle of legal certainty. And so I say that both as a politician and as a descendant of the man who did away with the beheadings of the old days. During Harald Bluetooth's time in the 900s, the sentences were not always fair, but they were executed quickly. It was not Harald's intention that it should be reversed, namely that the judgments are just, but that they are carried out infinitely slowly, for then justice will disappear in the process, and we are left with neither rapid execution nor justice. So, in the name of justice, legal certainty and Harald Bluetooth, let us set that limit. So for something positive. Together with others, I made an agreement with the previous government on a pool for the production of documentary films from the three countries of the Kingdom. The pack helped finance, among other things. the movie Skál... showing the very deep chasm between the Conservative and the Liberal wing in the Faroe Islands. It received top reviews in Danish media, it has had many spectators, and thus, as intended, it has helped to raise awareness and understanding of the Faroe Islands in the rest of the kingdom. In December we reached a similar agreement with the current government. It will lead to more films, better knowledge and better understanding. Thank you for that, Minister of Finance, and thank you to the other parties of the Folketing for the agreements we reached in December. They will all lead to concrete, beneficial projects, and I would like to say that people are happy. Finally, Poul Schlüter has passed away. He was the one who, in 1992, after 17 years of wrangling, complied with the Faroe Islands' demand to take over the underground and thus resolve a long and laborious conflict. I once asked him how he, as Prime Minister, could do what other prime ministers and officials had said was impossible under the Constitution. The very elegant answer was: My decision was not based on law at all. It was based on my own political and philosophical assessment and on the desire for good relations between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. There was talk in this House a few years ago of the policy of necessity. Schlüter understood the need for policy. I also hope that the current government will do so in the future, when foreign and security policy conditions can put wedges in the Kingdom community if they are not tackled in Schlüter's spirit or in the spirit of my ancestor Harald Bluetooth. It is no coincidence that a technical invention that can make very different devices work together is called bluetooth. Much political bluetooth will be needed in the coming years. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602215750	Thank you to the rapporteur. Let me see what is of short remarks. There is a brief comment from Mrs Tanja Larsson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602215759	Thank you. The other day we had the traditional and annual discussion of the opportunities and challenges of the Kingdom community. The rapporteur was unfortunately on sick leave at the time, so welcome back. It's good to see that sir. Sjúrður Skaale is well again. The rapporteur's deputy raised an important and exciting debate on Faroese trade with the outside world, including the relationship of dependence with Russia and the desire to trade more with the EU. After all, in his speech earlier today, the Prime Minister mentioned the need for us in the Kingdom Community to stand together on our common values to protect against those who do not share them. How does the rapporteur view the matter, and how does the rapporteur think that we can use the Commonwealth to promote Faroese trade with the European Union and the outside world?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602215842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602215843	Thank you for the question. As far as trade with Russia is concerned, I would first of all like to say that all European countries are selling everything to Russia that Russia wants to buy from them. So does Denmark. You do not sell food to Russia because Russia does not want to buy food from European countries, apart from the Faroe Islands, because we are not part of the mutual sanctions that exist. But, of course, I am not happy that we are as economically dependent on Russia as we are now not at all. It would be a great advantage for our economy if we had better access to the European market, and I also see it as a great advantage in strategic terms if we could become more dependent on sales to Europe instead of sales to Russia. This is very important and I hope that the Danish Government, which is of course part of the European Union, will help to pave the way for better access for our products to the European market. That would be beneficial economically and strategically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602215945	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602215947	Thank you. Finally, the rapporteur mentions in his speech that, in the Kingdom Community, we are faced with major common challenges which we can risk tearing ourselves apart if we do not deal with them properly. I and the Social Democrats share the desire to ensure closer, better and more equal cooperation between Denmark and the Faroe Islands in the future. What particular challenges does the rapporteur have in mind, and how does the rapporteur think we can strengthen our cooperation to tackle them together?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220017	Thank you for the question. It's about giving each other space. When it comes to trade with Russia, for example, there were certain forces in Denmark, both politicians and the press, who wanted Denmark to intervene and stop our exports to Russia, but the government said: it is trade policy; we let the Faroe Islands decide for themselves. Thus we can live in a community, but persecute the interests we each have. It would be terribly expensive for the Faroe Islands if we were to stop selling to Russia, which is such an important market. So it is a question of giving each other space and not putting ourselves in on each other, and when security policy becomes more comprehensive, and when trade policy and fisheries policy can have security policy aspects, it is very important that we do not overwhelm it on the Danish side and say that we are now deciding this and, like that, withdraw the areas. This must be done in a very close dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220106	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220109	Thank you. It was, of course, a rather exciting process with Russia, and this highlighted my critical approach to the European Union's silly way of working, but it was something else I wanted to ask. I remember that once we got scolded in the Folketing because we had come to price-regulate the block grant for the Faroe Islands, and they had expressly asked not to have their block grant regulated because it had to be locked down. And I can see that it has been in connection with the last three or four financial laws, and that is the fixed amount of just over 600 million. kr., and now that the Faroe Islands have had a better deal per year in these years. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Because I remember one of the representatives of that time saying: money that we have not made ourselves is not good money. And who referred to the Faroese: We would prefer to earn the money ourselves, and then you can keep yours in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220217	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220218	A certain political team is planning to do so. There was a national meeting the other day where one party declared that they wanted to significantly reduce block subsidies in the next parliamentary term if they came to power. The story is that 20 years ago, the Faroe Islands decided on their own initiative to reduce the block subsidy by one third and to freeze it nominally, and this has saved the Treasury approx. 20 billion kr. for the period that has elapsed. I think it is healthy that I think it is important not to rely on external services. It creates a more dynamic business environment, and it is not healthy for a political system that somebody offers themselves and says to vote for us, so we ensure that the money from the Danes continues, and they say to vote for the others, and then you have to earn your own living. It is, of course, a goal that we must get rid of the block subsidy altogether. I do not know how fast this is going to go, but, as the author said, it is being reduced a little every year because it is frozen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220319	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220320	Yeah, but it could be a great opportunity right now. At the moment we have a major economic problem in Denmark. The Prime Minister says that we have a healthy economy, but we certainly do not have real money for a humane refugee and immigration policy, so it could be a very good amount to get into that hole in Denmark's box, and if the political will in the government could then also change, it would be really, really good. But I look forward to the success of the Faroe Islands in the coming years too, both economically and politically and morally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220353	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220354	Thank you. The block grant is currently approx. 640 million kr., and there are some who argue to reduce it. Because if you take the overall picture of the economic relations between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, then many will think that it is Denmark that earns more than the Faroe Islands. Because we import everything through Denmark, and we export through Denmark, the agencies are in Denmark, and there is a lot of money flowing to Denmark because of the constellation that we have. But it is a discussion that is ongoing in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220425	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220428	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale described some of the dilemmas in his speech in relation to exports to Russia, and it is obviously a dilemma that we in Europe are trying to have sanctions against Russia and then the Faroe Islands, which are exporting at the same time. On the other hand, Mr. Sjúrður Skaale also just or at least hinted at the historical conditions that were for why we have ended up in that situation. How do we get out of it? In other words, what does it take to either open European markets to Faroese fish, or, of course, we make up for the lack of exports if the Faroe Islands are to stop exporting to Russia?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220506	Thank you. Historically, we started exporting to Russian markets on a large scale because we were sanctioned by Europe. It was in 2013-2014, and for a whole year the European ports were totally closed to Faroese ships, it was a feud, it was a disagreement, and it turned out that we were right all the time, and we won the subsequent trial, and the sanctions were lifted, and we ended up being right in what we had said and demanded. So it was a mistake made by the European side and that is why Europe, like it, pushed us into Russia's hands. How do we get out of this? If we get a better agreement with Europe, i.e. with processed products, now we can almost only export raw materials where we get better access for our products, then it will be a huge advantage and it will make us much less dependent on Russia than we are today. I can see that, for example, if you do. is becoming more dependent on Russia, at least may have political implications.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220606	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220607	Yes, of course, but I am very much in favour of the historical explanations as to why we ended up in it for all parties, except for Russia, with such a somewhat untenable situation that, as Mr. Sjúrður Skaale himself says, was pushed into the arms of the Russians. We cannot escape the fact that this was practically what was going on there. So what's interesting now is how to move the Faroe Islands out of the bear's claws over there. I mean, what's it gonna take, what's it gonna take, what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be, what's gonna be, what's gonna be, what's gonna be, what's gonna be, what's gonna be, what's gonna be, what's gonna be, what's gonna be, what's gonna be, what's gonna be, what's Mr. Sjúrður Skaale for himself, where we get the weird thing about the Faroe Islands exporting while the rest of Europe
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220640	As I said in the reply just now, other countries are also exporting to Russia, and there are many in the Faroe Islands who will say: why is it a problem that you can buy a Faroese salmon in Moscow, while it is not a problem that you can buy a BMW car in Moscow? Why is that a problem? However, I think it may be a political problem that we are as bound to Russia as we are now, and the solution is that we have better access to European markets. It is simply the solution that lies, and everyone should have an interest in it and indeed also a strategic interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220716	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to wipe off here. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, please come to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602220742	President, Prime Minister. The hatred spreads like rings in the water, it increases in strength, gathers in roaring, stormy waves and in troubled sea. When it is the worst, it can rise like a tsunami of hatred and flush with the most vulnerable, so that they are overwhelmed by hatred, strangled in hatred, drown in hatred. In can't breathe, as George Floyd said when life was pushed out of him. Hate comes from many places, we know that, but hate comes from this Chamber too, unfortunately, in the form of harsh rhetoric and political decisions from the stronghold of democracy, and therefore, friends, my message today is that we must be careful that we do not become the stronghold of hatred. In this Chamber, we are fighting for what we believe in, and we must, of course, do that individually. But what is being said and done can also fertilise hatred and legitimise it. Other times, hatred is explained away, and all too often, even though hatred has consequences for our fellow citizens every day, the hatred will live on. The other day a family was verbally attacked again in the middle of a walk at the harbour, with words so coarse and so insulting that it turned in the stomach of most people. We all remember the two frightened children, it was heartbreaking, and then I saw my colleagues in the Parliament hall distance themselves. Thank you. But, but, guys, it's not enough just to distance yourself. This will never be enough, and this also applies to the Prime Minister, especially if we are involved in pursuing a policy that may appear racist, that may appear discriminatory, and that our fellow citizens feel discriminated against and that discrimination becomes mainstream. So it is bad, not enough to distance ourselves, because only action stops racism. My claim is that the discriminatory and racist policy adopted or pursued by this Parliament bears part of the responsibility for the wave of hatred that we are currently seeing sweeping over our minorities. I experience it myself, but many others who have not chosen to stand on the parliamentary platform, but who only live their normal everyday life, experience it when they shop in Harald Nyborg when you go on a Sunday walk with the family, when they use public transport, when they do their job as a postman, yes, or as I myself experienced this the other day, when you stand in front of the bakery and eat a bun. We cannot live with that, and instead here in the Folketing we must take the lead and be inspiring leaders who show another way where hatred is crowded out and empathy and compassion is fertilised and given space. We stand here today at the end of the debate in the parliamentary year 2021, and I hope that we can conclude this parliamentary year with a joint promise that we will fight hatred with everything we have in us, so that when we open the Folketing after the summer holidays, we will become the stronghold of diversity, the stronghold of action, a stronghold that fights racism and hatred and sets each of us free and gives each of us equal opportunities to live as we want, regardless of the colour of skin, regardless of religion, regardless of sexuality, regardless of origin or disability, so the Folketing becomes an institution that takes the lead and inspires the population positively and gives each of us the freedom to be who we are, each of us, without fearing to go on the street, without fearing that one will be attacked by a racist while waiting for the bus. Decades of scaremongering based on xenophobia, unfortunately also here in Christiansborg, have for me seen radicalised sections of the population and washed others away in the rivers of hatred. Now we must restore unity, now we must restore freedom, the freedom to be who you are, the freedom to dress as you want, the freedom to love who you want, the freedom to look as you want, the freedom to believe in who you want, and the freedom to live together on the fantastic planet that we have been given to borrow, a planet that we must jointly take care of a community that we must take care of, dear friends. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221249	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Sikandar Siddique I would like to read out a text for adoption. ) Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221254	Thank you. On behalf of the Free Greens, i.e. Susanne Zimmer (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), I shall read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that another year is wasted in securing the necessary climate action and mitigating the climate disaster that threatens life on the planet as we know it. The Danish Parliament notes that the government is failing the reduction targets laid down in the Climate Act, which should be supplemented by a Climate Act 2.0, which takes responsibility for Denmark's actual emissions. The Danish Parliament notes that the government is acting without due diligence and is thus engaged in a generational failure that can create an uninhabitable and insecure globe and send hundreds of millions of people to flee. The Danish Parliament also notes that another year is wasted in combating state racism which has gained ground in Denmark. There is a need for a consistent fight with the failed and inhumane policy that casts out and suspects our minorities, and all discriminatory policies should be rolled back so that Denmark can once again become a humanist forerunner. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221400	Thank you. The text of the adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There is a brief comment from Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221407	Well, thank you for your speech. I also have a feeling sometimes that there is a little too much sulphur in the Parliamentary Chamber. So I share that expectation that it can be better forward-looking and that there can be a different tone compared to how we talk about people with a refugee/immigrant background. I now heard the text of the rapporteur's adoption, and the rapporteur says that another year is wasted on the climate agenda. I don't think so. So, we have actually taken quite significant steps to plan two major energy islands which can enable Denmark to export renewable energy instead of, as we have done so far, exporting fossil energy. I also think that we have reached an agreement to renovate the general housing sector and to abolish that renovation line of 17 billion. kr., that's something that gives a plus climate. I believe that there have been many follow-ups to the energy agreement we have made, which is actually moving in the right direction. So does the rapporteur not see that we have not only wasted the year, but that some things are actually going in the right direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221513	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221514	Today in front of the Parliament's stairs, young people were met to show up their dissatisfaction... NGOs, Climate Council, grandparents. There are very, very many people out there in our society who do not share that view. In the Greens, we believe that the climate crisis is so urgent that it is not enough to push commas, and that is what I believe has been done. We need to understand the seriousness of the situation and that we need to act. As the UN has said, there is a need for action, prompt, immediate action without historical precedent. And that is the responsibility that Free Greens believe the Folketing has failed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221607	I fully agree that we can do more, and I am also often very impatient. We have such a rotation principle Enhedslisten that we have to get out of the Folketing again, because we want to do something while we are here. And these agricultural negotiations are going way too slow. But I also think that we in Denmark have adopted a climate law and that we have actually made something that sets a direction and that pushes the government. And as the Prime Minister had to admit in his speech today, with the understanding paper we made, we actually put pressure on the government. We have actually achieved something, and I really think the rapporteur should acknowledge that something is actually happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221641-2	Something's happening, but it's not gonna happen enough. I was part of the Housing Agreement myself, and we can negotiate on how the Landsbygningsfonden should look, but we cannot negotiate on the laws of physics, we cannot negotiate on the laws of nature. If we do not respond and ensure immediate reductions, as the UN has said since 2017, it will be too late. We need to recognise that premise. The climate crisis is not a crisis that we can work with, as we usually do, just as we could not with the corona crisis either. We must act right now, and that is the premise we are challenging.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221721	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no more brief comments. Sorry, a brief comment has been made right now. Mrs. Ida Auken, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221730	I was curious whether the rapporteur, Mr Beyer de Ryke, was present. Sikandar Siddique, just wanted to make three good proposals that provide immediate reductions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221742	Yeah, we want a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221756	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221757	One might then ask whether this would result in immediate reductions. At any rate, that is something that can be called into question. Even if we introduced a CO2 but then I would like to ask the rapporteur how we are going to halve animal production right now. Are you just gonna go expropriate? Does Free Green just like that 200 billion. kr. to go out and take people's work and lives from them and say that it doesn't matter about rural areas and agriculture, because now we're just going to expropriate? Is that what you think about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221829	That is the problem in the whole climate debate. The pretext for this is always jobs and growth. We have put a great deal of emphasis on this today. We do not hesitate at all; it may cost growth and it may cost jobs. It's about our basis of existence, so it's free to do so. We are not hiding that at all. In our view, it is precisely growth that has brought us here in relation to the climate. So we're not hiding it at all. It may cost jobs, and it may cost growth. The climate crisis is the absolute and the most important thing that we must tackle as parliamentary politicians and as a legislative assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221906	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no more questions now. The next rapporteur is Mrs Inger Løjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602221924	After all, I have been in Parliament for a few years now, and I have therefore also participated in a great many final debates. During that time we have experienced economic crises, periods of unemployment, we have participated in wars, we have experienced crises in terms of collective bargaining that have put society at a standstill, climate discussions and very much more, but one theme has gone over and over again over the years: immigration policy. For no matter how we turn it around, it is indisputable that the vast majority of the problems we have in Denmark are due to foreigners who have come here. Unfortunately, we are no longer the homogeneous country we have been and as we could be, and let us be honest with each other: much of the problems we are facing are due to the fact that too many foreigners have come to Denmark for too many years. Too many foreigners are criminals, too few foreigners are in work, and they are thus supported by Danish taxpayers. The areas where it is uncertain to move, yes, it is in ghetto areas and where, for example, it is in ghetto areas. Young foreigners are ravaged. It is in refugee and immigrant environments that girls and women are subject to social control, and we had certainly not had child brides here on land, a nasty tradition that pulls threads all the way back to the Prophet Muhammad and his marriage to 9-year-old Aisha. Today, we have other words for such perverted acts, and our intelligence service uses unimaginable resources to monitor and thus prevent terrorist attacks. Now the government and a majority in the Folketing will then suddenly bring to Denmark women who have joined the worst terrorist organisations ever. This is done, although everyone knows that this is to import problems, and even if we have no obligations to bring women and children to Denmark. We don't owe these women anything in any way. All they deserve is a closed door and an ice-cold shoulder on our part, but the government succumbed to the pressure of left-wing opinion-formers and the goodness industry. In these days there is then a bunch of Syrians and some yes, excuse the expression "deeply naive Danes out in the Palace Square here in front of Christiansborg," they demonstrate day after day that the Syrians should not go home and rebuild their own country again, but they must. And now I hope that the government and a majority in this case too will not succumb to the left, the opinion-formers, the rectors of the high schools and the newspaper Politiken. I can easily understand that in many ways it is better and much more pleasant to be here in Denmark than in Damascus, but Denmark is not their homeland. Denmark gave them temporary protection while they needed it, and therefore, of course, they must also comply with the instructions of the authorities and leave Denmark again when the assessment is that it is possible, and for some it is therefore now. A sea of times I have been told that now I must always bear in mind the good examples, such as: when a refugee or immigrant has entered employment or education, but frankly why? Why should you actually thank a refugee or an immigrant for providing for himself or in the course of public education? That should be what we expect. We are not going to thank the neighbour or our cousin for actually getting up today and going to work and not on public support; we expect our neighbour or cousin to work, just as I do not thank my niece and my nephew for taking an education either. It's expected, and it doesn't matter where you come from. Today's debare here, like many previous debates, was about a bit of everything, but today's foreign policy has also filled a great deal, and I have to say that I will be infinitely sad when I say, for example: The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. I do not really know whether I think there is anything new about the Socialists running away from their promises in the field of foreigners, as far as the problem is concerned, just that it is to the great detriment of all of us Danes who love Denmark, but it is now the case that you have to bear the policy of foreigners in your heart, and I do not want to hide the fact that I am deeply concerned, because not everyone carries it here in the heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222442	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222446	I have a question for the rapporteur in relation to the whole foreign debate. I have put it several times where I have said that it is necessary to require someone to work: of course, you must contribute, not rule out the possibility of making action plans, for example. against hate crimes. And we see that there are a number of hate crimes that appear on social media, in videos, etc. What do the rapporteur think we should do about it? Does the rapporteur think that there is a need for us politically to launch initiatives to ensure, for example, that we are able to do something about it? the women we see being verbally and physically attacked who are spit on and beaten? After all, we have seen children who are harassed and who are being molested on the streets. And I understand that the rapporteur will make demands in terms of working and contributing, but does the rapporteur think that we should also take concrete initiatives to ensure that these minorities, especially women, can feel safe?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222550	Well, listen to me, sir. Sikandar Siddique: hate crimes should not belong in Denmark at all, and this applies both ways. This applies both to the Dane, who is overburdening a fugitive or an immigrant... it should not take place... but it also applies to the other way... nor should it take place the other way. Try to ask how many schoolteachers, train inspectors, bus drivers and yes, also politicians who get bullied every day. This is going both ways. So maybe we should use this moment to agree that this shouldn't happen either way. It's just a bit like saying that Danes are also being subjected to hate crimes by, for example, Danes. refugees or immigrants, it has a completely different ring to it. But that's just the reality. Try to ask the schoolteachers, train controllers, bus drivers, and nurses. Try asking, for example. Public employees about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222647	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222648	But that's exactly what I'm saying. Well, when our Jewish fellow citizens experienced vandalism, we were also out to say: that is not okay. But right now all the studies are showing, for example. the one we saw in Politiken the other day that Muslim minorities are particularly exposed to hate crimes. And that is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he will be involved in drawing up an action plan with concrete initiatives to ensure that we get that statistics down. It's a simple question. And, of course, we must combat all kinds of hate crimes... we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222723	Well, if it goes both ways, then yes. In other words, hate crimes do not belong in Denmark, and we should do something about that. But it should also be acknowledged that there is a sea of Danes who every day are subjected to hate crimes by, for example, young immigrant boys.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222741	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222745	I can assure Mrs Inger Løjberg that I bear the policy of foreigners in my heart and that I am in favour of a humanitarian immigration policy far, far into my body. I don't know why I should be accused of the opposite. I'm sorry. So I would like to ask a question: should we not, as the rule of law, even with our worst enemies, ensure that everyone is innocent until proven guilty? Now I have heard that the women and children who are in the camps in Syria are criminals, terrorists, traitors. Well, they haven't been tried yet, and we usually say that is the standard for our society. And that is basically what should separate us from the IS and the caliphate supporters, namely that we maintain the rule of law and principles for our worst enemy. At least that is how I have learned it in the schools I have attended, and I have also had both liberal and conservative teachers, I would just like to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222854	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222856	In fact, I have also had friends and in fact have, I think I can say, friends in the Enhedslisten, so it goes both ways, and it's nice. It always opens your eyes to the sides of the world you've never seen and never thought you'd get close, but that's the way it is. When we come to the question, try to hear here, Christian Juhl: These people have turned their backs on Denmark, and they have done so emphatically. They have slammed the door, they have joined a regime of terror with one single purpose, and that is to fight all we stand for. We have no obligation to anyone. I know that the debate is about helping them home. Listen, Christian Juhl: They are where they should be. They're not going to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222952	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602222954	In other words, in some cases, when some people think that it is right, we must abandon all kinds of rule of law and principles of legal certainty. I think that is a sadly low point in our country's development. That's one thing. The second question I really want to ask is a very personal one, and I hope I have to ask it anyway, but otherwise the rapporteur cannot answer it: where has the slightly younger Inger Løjberg, who enthusiastically talked about agricultural policy, social policy, the way we have democracy, the legal systems and all the other exciting policy areas gone? Now I have tried to practice at least the last 3-4 years to get the rapporteur to talk about it too. It is good that there is a lot of talk about refugees, but I also think the other is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602223043	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602223044	Well, now we're talking about what each of us thinks is most important today. And just as I do not begin by frying out the Enhedslisten on why they haven't raised any other issues in their speeches here today, I also think I have just as much right to prioritise what I am going to talk about. And I think this is simply the biggest problem in Denmark, which is why it is, and I have given priority to talking about it here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602223111	We thank Mrs Inger Løjberg. There are no more brief comments and unless more people wish to speak, I will give the floor to the Prime Minister. There isn't. Here you go, Prime Minister for the final remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602223138	I can't believe it's already now that I thought it would be half and 24 hours before we got here. Prank aside, and thank you for a good debate. First of all, I should like to begin by agreeing with Mr Seligman's question. Mr Ellemann-Jensen's greeting to Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Søren Pape Poulsen and the Conservative People's Party on the sad occasion that former Prime Minister Poul Schlüter has passed away. Praise be to his memory. Denmark has lost a dear politician and statesman. He was one of the great figures in Danish history, a respected and talented politician who burned for Denmark, and a prime minister who, with pragmatism and in the spirit of cooperation, produced results. Poul Schlüter assumed responsibility for Denmark for more than a decade. It was also a politician who could put the words accurately both with humour and wit. Today everyone has sprung in this Chamber, not least Mr. Henrik Dahl was well aware that it was only the chair that was damaged. Many lunch invitations have also been sent to the right and left, and the debate has been great. Already after my speech this morning, many people asked for more brief remarks, and the President does not trust that, but now you will have the chance in a moment. After all, in this Chamber we address each other with the full name, even though it may happen for the best that a Mr... smokes in the bend. On the other hand, in the past year we have come on a first-name basis with some that we didn't know very well before, namely all the country's neurologists, all of Denmark's Allan, Lone and Kåre. A little more overlooked is the fact that the year has also, at the serious end, offered good material to the zoologists, and it is of course the bat, the risk of infection between humans and animals, as we unfortunately also saw with mink. The pandemic has shown us the challenges we face when Earth's ecosystems are destroyed and people and wild animals are brought closer together. In the more curious end, politics has always been filled with expensive analogs: there are horse-trading, there are foxcakes, there are monkey games, there are turns and people who sell the skins before the bear is shot. Sometimes a rabbit gets pulled out of the hat. I prefer the mackerel myself, and if you look closely, for example. On Instagram, you may see that the mackerel has a torpedo-shaped body and a very slim tail tip. Muscle is also it, and it can make lightning-fast maneuvers up and down the water. The mackerel is the epitome of a top-tuned predatorfish. On land, however, it fails, and it is here, on the savannah, that things are happening. The camel we have passed before, the tiger I mentioned this morning, and lately it has begun to swarm with free birds in the bourgeois. And then there's finally the big animal on the savannah, and of course I'm thinking of the biggest one, the elephant. In fact, the elephant is typically living in a reasonably harmonious flock structure, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Perhaps because the herd is always led by a female elephant, and she does not spend so much effort fighting other elephants. The male only shows up for one purpose: mating. I'll get back to that. In this connection, I also need to mention that our good old friend, Ramoline, is a female elephant and that as recently as yesterday we had breaking news from Knuthenborg: Ramoline had run away. And here you go as prime minister and think that you decide everything, maybe actually you're perfect and then you can't even keep track of just four circus elephants in a safari park. It has to be said, however, and some people know the director of Knuthenborg well that Cristoffer Knuth yesterday emphasised that Ramoline is a very clever elephant. Why? Because the Rambolism first managed to pull the live cables out of the electric fence and then saw its cut while the staff were busy repairing the fence, breaking out. The explanation was that she is making trouble because she is enjoying the attention that sounds plausible to me and if that analysis can also be passed on to the Members in this Chamber, I must of course refrain from making myself smart. Another animal that lives apart is the panda. The pandas only meet when the female is close to the heat period, and there is, as you know, no guarantee of success, and unfortunately the pandas also proved this year. The female seems clear, but the male hesitates, as it said in an article. I know a little bit of the feeling here from the Danish Parliament: we are putting forward proposals for negotiation and calling for negotiation at the negotiating table. We are making ourselves in a nutshell, and it is of no use if you would rather eat bamboo, isn't it, sir? Søren Pape Poulsen? I heard an animal keeper explain that the problems with the pandas are often due to the fact that the male does not know what is expected of him, and if the same is true of my male colleagues in the bourgeois parties, then I must be the first to regret it. Well, the reality is that we work together for the most part here in the Folketing. Since the government came in almost two years ago, we have concluded 185 agreements across the middle of green conversion agreements, on the economy, on welfare, on the management of the pandemic and also on foreign policy, although that is not the impression that one gets when one hears the debate today. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl quoted in detail my views in the long version as regards foreign fighters and the issue of children in Syrian camps. Thank you for that. I mean every word. And here's the short version: Foreign warriors are unwanted in Denmark. I stand by that and the government. But can a government ignore a security assessment by PET? I do not think so. Is this a decision that we and I are happy about? No, it is absolutely not, but it is a decision that any responsible government must make. Another resolution, which is difficult and has filled a lot in the debate, is the question of the exit centre. I wonder what you really think if you have followed the debate today and you live in Central Jutland, Langeland or the area around Stege Bay. There are not many people in Denmark who want criminals expelled as neighbors. I think everyone here really understands that. And that means there's not a good solution to this problem. In fact, there are only bad solutions. The previous government put forward a proposal, but there is no majority in favour of it, and the current government has put forward a proposal, and there is no majority in favour of it. On the contrary, a majority in this Parliament has decided to oppose a decision which was otherwise the responsibility of the government. And what do we do now? There are still unresolved problems. The most urgent thing here and now is in my view that we must help the residents around Kærshovedgård; they have for many years lifted a great burden on behalf of the whole society. I hope that Parliament can agree on this when we have not been able to agree on anything else. Hard decisions do not go away simply because they say no. And when it comes to foreign policy, there are only difficult decisions • or almost, at least. And when you listen to the debate, even today, the fronts tend to be pulled up, arguments turn into attacks, nuances are lost, and the dilemmas we are not dwelling on very much. In fact, the way to discuss is not really very Danish. In any case, we usually do more to solve the problems together. And you're not a bad person because you don't want to see your country fundamentally changed. You're not. And you are not naive either because you want to help refugees. The vast majority of us really want to be able to both help the people who have a need for protection and keep looking after Denmark. How do we do that? Here we need to address some of the more fundamental challenges. The number has a meaning; indeed, that is probably the most important thing in reality. Over the years, too many have come here without becoming a fully integrated part of Denmark. And even if we do what we can to keep track of how many people are coming here, we still depend on what is happening in the rest of the world. There is again a great migration pressure on Europe, and it will certainly be even greater. We are already seeing increased influx and pressure on borders. Everyone has seen the miserable pictures from the Mediterranean • desperate people in rubber boats, children who lose their lives along the way. In fact, a humanitarian disaster is happening right in front of us. The only sustainable answer to this is a new asylum system, because the truth is that right now we are failing the weakest; those who cannot or cannot afford to escape, and those who lose their lives or are under attack in the attempt. That is why we are proposing to transfer asylum seekers to a reception centre outside the European Union. It is almost as if it has come as a surprise to some that we are actually working to realise that vision. We have never concealed the fact that this is difficult, and it will continue to be difficult, but we must try. Does this mean, as some have said today, that a rich country such as Denmark does not lift its responsibilities? No, of course not, because Denmark, like everyone else, has an obligation to help refugees. That is why we also welcome quota refugees, what we would be able to do even more if we managed to stop the spontaneous influx of asylum. Is it really not possible here in the Folketing to gather to stop the smugglers and introduce a more humane asylum system, even if it is a difficult task? Some say no to a reception centre, others say no to quota refugees. It's just very easy to say no, but it's going to keep the status quo, and that's not good enough. One is that the number has a meaning. It also matters what culture and what traditions people come here with, and it is in fact an even harder debate. An average for a group can quickly become a generalisation and stigmatisation of the individual. We all have a responsibility to avoid that. The positive stories, and they're there, must be included. Young non-Western descendants aged 20-29 are in the same degree, even slightly higher, than those of Danish origin. That's absolutely good. But we also need to be able to speak openly and honestly and properly about the problems that exist, because statistics also show that immigrants from countries in the Middle East and North Africa are on average doing significantly worse on average than immigrants from many other countries. Fewer women work and support themselves and their families; more of the young men are convicted of crime. And we only solve problems if we talk about them. This is also true in relation to the behaviour that creates insecurity for a great many people when you take the S-train home or move in the public space, also at night and evening. That is why the government has proposed a security-building residence ban. We want to make it illegal to stay in a particular area. It can, for example, be done. be in the dark parking lot in a residential area or at a shopping center in a place that is today characterised by insecurity. When we first proposed it, it was from the Left that we had stolen the policy of the Left, but when it was going to vote on it here in the Assembly, the Left was suddenly opposed. There is no longer a majority in favour of the proposal, unfortunately. Let me be blunt: I think the Left is failing the Danes' security. Also to this challenge, the answer was no. As rapporteur for the Left, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen said: We acknowledge that there is a problem, but the solution the government comes with, is not good enough, gone. One would almost think that it was something that was written in the Old Man's newspaper, and not in the Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten. Because with all due respect, it sounds almost like the king's daughter in the story of clumsy guys rejecting suitors in a row. Maybe we should bring an old wooden shoe and a dead crow and some of the finest mud from the ditch if we really want to impress the Left. But it's not the government that's losing in this case. It's the Danes. It is all the people who today experience insecurity where they must be allowed to feel safe; where they need to feel safe, where they live, where they thrive, where they shop, where they play football, where they transport themselves, or their children do it; they are the ones who lose. It's not the government. It's probably not even the Folketing, because the question is how many of us go over that square or take the S-train at the time it's most uncomfortable. But all those who do lose when the Danes' security is abandoned. I think it is tomorrow that the vote will take place. This is not good. This is really not good. Having said that, we hope, of course, that it will be possible to reach a broad agreement on benefits. For many years, benefits have been changed over and over again, and today the system has become so incalculable that no one can find it anymore, and worse still: it does not contribute enough to people's actually getting to work. But here too there are many nos. Some say no to abolishing the ceiling on cash benefits, some say no to maintaining the ceiling on cash benefits, and that brings us together nowhere new. It is in some way too poor and too unambitious, because we are at the foot of an economic recovery, and this time we have to set up the system of benefits so that more people get to work, because now the opportunity is there again. We think there has been too much focus on rights and too little on duties. And we propose, as I said before, to reverse the thinking and take as a starting point that everyone can contribute when they come here. Earlier today, Mr. Alex Vanopslagh again with the speech for the Liberal Alliance and said and formulated and actually expressed the dilemma for many of us who are here, in one sentence: the problem of unregulated immigration is that it leads to an over-regulated society. It can hardly be said to be shorter and more precise. I totally agree. That is why foreign policy is also now about virtually every corner of our society: the repatriation of criminal foreigners, the fight against a new illegal and disorganised labour market, the conditions for acquiring citizenship, the issue of social control, which is increasingly experiencing extreme interpretations of religion, the threat of terrorism against Denmark and self-censorship. Can we talk about all this without creating unnecessary distinctions between us and between people? We must be able to do that, it is our duty. Because it is unhappy, and it is unreasonable when people experience racism and discrimination and it does not matter who is experiencing it when young people who are born and raised in Denmark experience being rejected at the door either to an internship or to a discotheque alone because of their name and skin color; and when job seekers can feel that the job passes by because they have a foreign name. As has also been pointed out today, Mrs Samira Nawa of the Radical Left, we all have a responsibility to say from the open to racism wherever it appears. This also applies, of course, to discrimination against other groups, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr rightly pointed out; whether they are people with disability, sexual orientation other than the average or other groups. It is our actions, each and every one of them, that make the difference: political choices, national and international. Today, too, we have discussed international conventions and, with all due respect, I think that the discussion is too often black and white. Either you're in favour and you have to defend everything it means, or you're against, and then Denmark has to get out of it all. But what happens then? Denmark has at home in the EU, Denmark has at home in the UN, Denmark at home in NATO. It is in these contexts that we can dominate the world most, and that is where we seek protection when necessary. I am convinced that the conventions, both for the individual and for a small country like Denmark, are our best basis for creating a better world order. The rule-based world society was the necessary response to the atrocities of World War II; the protection that generations before us have built up, we should not tear down. I would therefore also like to make it very clear that this government is not going to withdraw Denmark from international conventions, but at the same time I would insist that conventions should be changed anywhere. I say that, knowing it's an extremely difficult task. However, we need to be able to look critically at the far too narrow framework in order to be able to deny criminals their citizenship, and we need to be able to look at the limited possibilities of expelling criminal foreigners, to mention just two important examples. A fundamental principle of the conventions is that refugees should be given protection when they need it. When they no longer have it and when the authorities consider that it is safe for them to return to their country of origin, they must travel in the eyes of the government and the majority. The same applies, of course, to asylum seekers who are refused asylum. The assessment whether it is safe for a refugee to return to his country of origin should not, in our view, be a political assessment. Today there are more than a thousand rejected asylum seekers in Denmark; people who have no basis for being here. It is untenable and they occupy, as it were, the place of people who have a need for protection. When you no longer have a basis for staying in Denmark, you have to go home. Of course, this is not straightforward either, and there are human fates among them, but we should and we should stick to the basic principle of law. Yesterday, Denmark's first Return Travel Act came into force. It gives us clear rules on what should happen to foreigners when they are refused residence, until they can go home. That's good. We are, as the Folketing is aware, a minority government, and we are even a one-party government. I know that if you ask me now, I made a point earlier, Mr President. Alex Vanopslagh and will do it again. Alex Vanopslagh, he would say that out of the 179 members of the Folketing, they are 176 Social Democrats in some form. The last time we had a group meeting in the Social Democratic Party there were only 49 who showed up, and thus there is a certain amount up to 90; and that is actually very good in a sense. Because this requires us to negotiate, to listen to each other, to make the necessary compromises. I think that has been extremely successful in a year in which we have worked together in a very, very many areas. Should we not try to see if we can do just as well in the area of foreigners in the future? Finally, I would like to thank the Members from Greenland and the Faroe Islands for a good debate. Only a few weeks ago we had a long and good debate about the Kingdom Community here in the Assembly Hall, and if there is anything that brings together the Folketing, it is a sincere interest and a sincere commitment to the Kingdom Community and also a common desire to strengthen cooperation both with Greenland and with the Faroe Islands. Congratulations to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen on the nomination for the Dialogue Prize, and thank you for a visionary speech, among other things. the work of the Arctic MPs and on relevant topics for the people of the Arctic. It is climate, it is business policy and it is human development. All in all, thank you for the message in the debate about translating the work of the Folketing into concrete results both for the Faroe Islands and for Greenland and to strengthen cooperation. Thank you, too, to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam and Mr Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Edmund Joensen, who both mentioned the security policy implications of developments around the Arctic and the Kingdom Community. In the situation where things are becoming more acute and where the challenges are increasing, the need for our close dialogue and even closer cooperation has only increased. That is our clear wish, and I hear that there is broad support for it in the Folketing, that cooperation should only be strengthened further. Last but not least, I barely know how to thank Mr. Sjúrður Skaale to raise the debate to new royal heights here at the end of the evening. Maybe I should just congratulate you on the blue blood that is now running in the veins. We've been arguing with each other for an unusual number of hours. After all the words have been spoken and the smoke has settled, what is left? Denmark stands in an exceptionally good and strong place. Although the political debate can be tough and experienced by many, we must also understand as being too harsh, the results of our joint cooperation are, on the other hand, at the very top. Unemployment is falling and next year we expect the highest economic growth for 15 years. Denmark has come through the crisis well; there is optimism, faith and momentum in all parts of Danish society. With this in our backs, we as a parliament can also seriously start looking forward, taking responsibility on us, challenging ourselves and each other, investing in Denmark's future. Together, when we meet again after the summer break, we will have to make the decisions that will make Denmark as strong as possible over the next 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602225714	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister. Following a decision by the Bureau and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the framework for short remarks to the Prime Minister has been extended to 11⁄2 hours this time. In other words, keeping to the speaking time for short remarks, there may be room for 30 sets of brief remarks and answers. The rapporteurs of the groups, including the North Atlantic, have priority in the distribution of short remarks. Distribution of the remaining approx. 16 brief comments will be made according to proportional figures. The first one I give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602225742	Thank you very much for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister too. I spoke earlier today about the fact that, unfortunately, the corona crisis has been a low point for our democracy in some areas, and I sensed from the outbursts and comments from the government side of the House that this was not very satisfactory. You seem to disagree with that. I think that part of the reason for this is that perhaps too much has been used to power and too little to responsibility. At any rate, the Prime Minister was standing in his speech here a moment ago and was so rather indignant that there are parties that mean something other than the government, and that is how they broke out with their arms. In other words, when we are some people who think it is a bad idea to set up an exit centre on Langeland, you knock out your arms and say: what are we going to do? And then the government does not want to help the people in Central Jutland who are facing the problem now. When we believe that a ban on residence for all people where there is insecurity is too severe and we only want to hit those who cause the problems, the Prime Minister will also be upset about it. Let me just mention one example where a democratically low point has been hit. This is the killing of the entire mink industry. Man's life's work was simply ruined in one afternoon, with a fingertips. It cost taxpayers 19 billion. kr. On top of that, there was no legal basis, and it was also found that the legal basis was missing, and yet nothing was done. Does the Prime Minister really think this was a highlight of our democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602225918	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602225920	I have to say that I am quite incomprehensible that one can call such a uniquely good crisis management of an entire country a democratic low: 17 tripartite agreements, an entire society that has invested blood, sweat and tears, and not least time in making the necessary decisions, and a parliament that has made, I have barely any figures on how many broad agreements, nor how many negotiations we have entered into. Yes, there have been disagreements along the way, but we have nevertheless succeeded in creating both balanced but also forward-looking crisis management. This is not a low point of democracy. On the contrary, the Folketing has shown its strength, and the people's rule has shown its strength. In relation to the unfortunately necessary killing of the minks, we on the part of the government have repeatedly regretted the mistakes that have been made, and I am happy to do so again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230023	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230025	Thank you. So let me give you another example. It's about the epidemic law. For it was the case that in March of last year a total of Parliament rose up and that was the way we voted under the restrictions that applied and supported the government in removing the existing epidemic law and making it temporary. We did so because the Prime Minister had assured us that this was necessary and that the new epidemic law would be handled responsibly. What the Prime Minister failed to tell the Danish Parliament at the time was that the Danish Parliament was sidetracked, and decisions were made for themselves because they could be made for months thereafter. Then, when a proposal was made for a new epidemic law in the autumn, a continuation was set up in which the government could completely swing the tactics. Thank God we got a stick in the wheel for that. Does the Prime Minister seriously believe that it is not a democratically low point that you are driving the Parliament over and nobody next to it is sidetracked?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230123	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230124	In fact, I think that one underestimates one's own positive role with that statement, because all the decisions taken here in the Assembly have been taken with the approval of the Folketing, otherwise it cannot be done, and often by a very, very broad majority. Parliament has played an extremely important role in the management of corona, and I would also like to say a special thank you for the immensely many hours, day and night that have been put into this work, and with skewed working hours and all sorts of other things. So I think you underestimate your own important role in the management of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230206	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230208	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply for the time being. I think Denmark's Radio has recently uncovered a very strange course back in January, to which I would like the Prime Minister to address himself. The Prime Minister said on 5 January at a press conference that lightning tests would be ensured in the country's nursing home. The regions said they were ready to carry it out, but were then told by the Ministry of Health that they should not carry out the lightning test, but continue with the PCr test. Nevertheless, on 10 January, the Prime Minister repeated in a live broadcast on TV 2: I certainly think that there should be quick testing out at the country's care centres. We have very specifically asked the authorities to ensure that this happens, the answer was given by the Prime Minister. She went on to say: we reported as recently as last week on the part of the government that we want quick tests to be carried out at the nursing homes. Nevertheless, according to the information provided by the DR, the regions did not understand this because they had received a different message. Therefore, the quicktest was only established from 1 February. What's up and down all this? What went wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230318	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230319	In other words, what we have done on the part of the government is that we have expressed our very clear political desire for more testing in Denmark. Moreover, this has been a political wish throughout the management of the epidemic. Fortunately, we can also see the very, very positive effect of the fact that, along the way, we in Denmark have started testing much more aggressively and now have one of the most well-developed infrastructures for testing at all. So the statements I have made express the political wish that was, and which, moreover, still applies, that as much as possible should be tested in an epidemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230400	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230402	No, well, the Prime Minister specifically says that the country's nursing home needs to be lightning tested. On 5 January, she says to the public that health authorities must ensure as soon as possible that staff at care centres in all regions can be quickly tested. On 10 January, she said: we have very specifically asked the authorities to ensure this. Behind this, a correspondence has been uncovered from the DR in which the health authorities have informed the regions along the way that they do not need to speed up. Well, it looks very, very mysterious. The DR has tried to get the Prime Minister to speak, and they have tried to get the Minister for Health to speak to the Minister for Justice, who has given an e-mail reply. I think that the people are entitled to a slightly better answer than what has come so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230444	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230445	If I understand correctly, consultation questions have been put to both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Justice, and they must of course be answered in accordance with normal procedures. As I said before, it was a very strong political wish that more testing should be carried out, including the use of quick tests, which we have subsequently seen have had an incredibly positive effect. And that would have been desirable, I would also like to say, if the authorities had been quicker in providing the necessary tests around the country's nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230517	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230520	On Saturday we have had a new majority in Denmark for two years. It's been two good years, we've had a lot of results, and there's still a lot of energy in this 2-year-old. So I would like to look forward and look at: what are the challenges we are facing? One of them was revealed this week, namely the evaluation of the primary school, which shows that we have clear shortcomings in relation to young people who can read and write, and in relation to mathematics, but in fact also the challenges of school day has become too long. That is what teachers, pupils, and parents say, and the quality of primary school is affected. The children simply get too tired to learn. One of the things we from the SF will certainly bring to the table, both in the Finance Law negotiations, but also in the Minister of Education, is to have a stronger focus on shorter school days and, in fact, also fewer pupils in the classes, so that you can have time for more learning, so that you can have time for the individual learner. I am actually curious whether the Prime Minister thinks that this is also one of the things we should start looking at when we are going to look at the next two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230628	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230629	First of all, I am delighted that education and primary school have been completed. I do not know how much this has filled in the debate, but it is certainly something that many have approached me during the day on the basis of my introductory words. I sense that there are several of us who think that something is wrong with our school, and I am not sure that it is a single button or two individual buttons that we need to press, because it is something more fundamental. What is it that the school fatigue that can be so easily made to the individual child's problem, but which is, after all, a collective problem, comes from? I am not sure that it is the length of school day that is the most crucial thing. Rather, I think that our challenge is that for a lot of children it is really, really hard to know what it really is that they have to live up to in their school day. Because the requirements have become diffuse and there is really a lot of focus on competences instead of learning. It is something that children and people, myself including myself, I remember how it was that may not come from a home that has immediate strong academic traditions or other educational traditions, can recognize.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230733	Pia Olsen Dyhr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230734	I do not think there is one button or two buttons with which we can push and solve the problems in primary school. The primary school is where we are to meet each other, get to know each other across social divisions, backgrounds, cultures and frameworks of understanding. I think that is absolutely crucial. Otherwise, we will actually fail to solve the task of primary school in our society. That is why we need to look at that evaluation, and it says very clearly that the length of school day also matters. In addition, SF is very open to look at other things. I would just like to warn against us embarking on a huge school reform and thinking that it will solve the problems. I actually believe that we need to have a handson on some of the challenges identified by the evaluation and which we need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230816	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230817	I'm not so concerned about the framework in which we do it. I just really want us to solve the problems that exist. And it is not a new problem that there are so many children leaving our school after 10 years without being able to read, write or count. It is almost a little incomprehensible that you can go to school in Denmark for 10 years without learning the most basic thing, and that could be because there might have been a focus on some of the things that are not the most necessary. There is something in the way we organize our school and our education, which I think has a great appeal to many, but which clearly does not manage to provide a proper school offer to some of the children most in need of it. So if it is against this background that we are talking, we can discuss many things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230901	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230902	Thank you. Following on from the question of what we should invest in and, in fact, as a reception of it, I think the Prime Minister made a very good speech about the challenges we face, which are huge, massive and which also require ambitious responses, among others. In relation to the labour force that must come, I would like to dive into the educational exercise. For the Prime Minister also said right now: we must secure the future of Denmark and invest in it, and I agree with that. But what is it that the government's educational initiative provides the answers to precisely the challenges of securing labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230948	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602230948-2	I have actually listened to today that there is very, very broad support for us to start decentralising education again, and many parties have said during the day that the consequences of the violent centralisation have not been good for Denmark. Therefore, we have to now and it will be difficult to go the other way and make sure that more education takes place in several parts of Denmark. We have then come up with our proposal, which is a great effort. We look forward to the negotiations. If, as it were, we only set up new training courses around the country and do not at the same time insist that there should be fewer training courses where there are many today, then I do not believe that we will create decentralisation. Then I think we are repeating exactly the mistakes that have been made in some rounds. And if we want more people to take an education in Herning, in Hjørring, in Sønderborg and elsewhere, as in Svendborg, Holbæk and at Fehmarnlink, then fewer people will have to be trained in the largest cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231052	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231054	I fundamentally disagree with that latter point. Cutting down as massively as the government is proposing on education in the big cities, I find it very, very difficult to see how will be of benefit to the business community. It is the large cities that have a greater share of the in vain recruitment of people with higher education, of the highly educated today. They're already missing. So what is it like to cut back on exactly what they need for the benefit of business? I guess it's not the companies we're gonna have to relocate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231133	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231134	First of all, we are not cutting down on education. What we are asking of some of the higher education institutions is to ensure that part of their activities are carried out elsewhere than primarily in the large cities. Secondly, large parts of Danish business are not in the big cities. Very, very large parts of the green conversion and Production Denmark are located outside the major cities. And that's where engineers and others are asked for, for example. So if we want to ensure the 70-percent objective, and if we want to ensure a Denmark in balance and go up against centralisation, then we must have a relocation of education. Because with falling adolescences it will not be enough just to set up more education, because then we will really just be lubricating too thinly, and then I do not think it will have an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231214	Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231217	Thank you. I dream of a society in which the opportunities given to children in life do not depend on their birth certificate, their postal address or the accident that can happen when parents end up in unemployment. But children just don't have equal opportunities in Denmark, unfortunately. Many children grow up at home in poverty, and that has consequences. Just a year of poverty means an incredible amount to a child's opportunities later in life in terms of getting an education, in terms of getting a family, in terms of getting a good job in the future. So child poverty sets the course for many towards a really, really difficult adult life. We cannot be familiar with this; we must do something about it. And that is also why we gave Mrs Mette Frederiksen the keys to the Prime Minister's Office, precisely to solve this challenge, in order to address the problems. Therefore, I would just like to ask very directly and simply today: will the Prime Minister live up to the promises, even if it will cost some money?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231323	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231325	Where there is real poverty, I have no doubt that it restricts the development of a child and is fundamentally wrong. But in Denmark we do not have an updated new official poverty limit, and that is why what is often referred to in the political discussion, I think, goes back to the way in which the Labour Movement's Employment Council settles this, namely by starting from 50%. of median income. But if we try to take a family example, too, for the sake of further discussion, it means for a family with two adults, mother and father, and two children living at home over 15 years of age, a poverty limit of more than DKK 300,000. a year after tax, which means more than 25,000 kroner. a month after tax. I don't think that's poverty. I don't think that's poverty. So, yes, we want to help solve some of the problems that exist with poverty, but this amount of available money is not poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231431	Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231432	We are going to have some discussions about what poverty is and that relative poverty also has consequences for children; it has. However, I would like answers to the question as to whether the Prime Minister is ready to give money to those families that have the most difficulty not just temporarily, but in the long term, so that we actually help some of those who are in poverty in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231455	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231456	I would like more people to get to work, because the benefits we are discussing on the basis of the recommendations of the Service Commission are benefits that should not be spent for a very long time; they are temporary benefits, they are cash benefits that are low per person. nature, one might say · because it is temporary benefits. I think it is too early to start discussing the consequences of negotiations that have not started at all, because the prerequisite for us to get into this discussion at all is therefore also a necessary discussion of what poverty is. I think we look at that differently, because if we take the family example here, I have very, very difficult to see that an amount of 25,000 kroner. a month after tax is poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231542	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231543	Thank you. In this case too, the government can count on a very responsible and constructive opposition, and I really think the government should be happy about that, because what else could it not be pressured to do? As the Prime Minister sums up the year that has passed and says that we cannot have it all ourselves and that we must find each other, I would just like to say that we have found it, because in all modesty I think we have a very constructive opposition that has helped to make a great many agreements. When, then, the Prime Minister tackles the security-building residence ban and is a little after the Left in connection with it, I also feel called to say a few words about it. Because it may sound as if we are some who, because we do not vote for that proposal, do not take the Danes' security seriously and that it is the Danes' security that is at stake. In other words, the proposal before us risks hitting innocent people who have not in any way intimidated others or done anything wrong. That's what you're risking. Then the Left will table an amendment which would allow us to go beyond that problem and then the government will not support it. That is where one could also have some room for manoeuvre the other way round and where the government could support that amendment, so that we landed it widely in the Folketing, instead of making it a talk of someone in here who does not want the Danes' security. I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231702	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231702-2	But then the reality is that with that amendment it is again a tiny jump on the ground and not something that makes any real difference. Because what is our challenge is that the insecurity-building behaviour that we want to put an end to, and I know that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is as concerned about that as I am; I know all about that not always materializing in a specific criminal act. It does, and we know that too, but the insecurity-building behaviour may have a different expression than outright violence or outright enrichment-crime: the fact that groups gather together and in their appearance and their choice of words and in the way they behave can be so threatening and have such a destructive character for the rest of the community that the rest of us cannot be there. The legislation we have today and that is the one that is going to apply to us does not respond to that challenge, and that is why we have set out to find a new tool, a new means, to ensure, for example, that you can get security back to ordinary people at the S-train station, in the shopping centre or in the parking lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231811	Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231812	It should also be the case that ordinary people can also be there and that we do not get a skew here. I think we should sit down without anything written in advance in the new collection... those parties that, if anyone for many years, have stood firm on a value policy and on creating security for the Danes... and then look at how we can turn this together. This side of the House, if any, has been responsible for a strict immigration policy and a consistent legal policy for many, many years, and I do not think it is fair to use a single bill to say that now it is the government that takes the security of the Danes seriously and that the rest of us are such halal hippies of some kind. We're not, so let's start over and do something right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231856	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231857	We are always involved in negotiations, but I must also say that I am concerned about some of the progress we are experiencing in the Left. That the Left isn't in a police settlement, I never thought it would happen. Never thought it would happen! Because it is such a fundamental part of our society, and it is such an important prerequisite for the safety of the Danes, so there you are, of course. By the way, it's a police settlement that's really good, and Conservatives are in it. We ensure more close police and more security for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231933	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602231933-2	Thank you. I've been really looking forward to asking this question. I have to be honest with you. The Prime Minister has apologized to the godhavn boys, the Prime Minister has called himself the Prime Minister of the children, and the Prime Minister has diligently used the social media. That is why I have been surprised that the Prime Minister has not commented on the tragic TV 2-documentary I called the Prime Minister at Question Time to hear what the Prime Minister of the children thought about, that children and young people placed in care are abandoned and mistreated in some places and institutions, and the Prime Minister refused to stand up and referred to the minister responsible. I was very surprised that the Prime Minister of the children resigned from responsibility and was not the so-called responsible minister when children and young people were subjected to threats and violent use of force by employees. I would therefore like to ask why the Prime Minister is no longer the Prime Minister of the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232043	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232044	The most important first and then I return to our cooperation here in the Folketing. All children in Denmark must be treated well and properly. And it is a double failure if children who cannot be at home because of a lack of parenthood or relationship around the family that says so are subsequently abandoned, either because society does not respond quickly and effectively enough, or because it is the way it is described here, I do not think I have had the opportunity to see the programmes that there are children who are exposed to behaviour and behaviour that do not belong in any way. Not only must we distance ourselves from this, it is something that we have to resolve and something that we also have the opportunity to resolve by making the necessary demands on the adults who have to look after the children. Of course, this is important, and the New Civil Government has absolute support for this. After all, we wanted to go further in the negotiations that have just been concluded with the Folketing to safeguard the rights of vulnerable children. Fortunately, we have taken some important steps. In relation to the cooperation between Prime Minister and Parliament, I would just like to point out that during the past parliamentary year I have come up with everything you expect a Prime Minister to come up to in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232201	Thank you. Then it's Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232202	Thank you for your answer. The Prime Minister's disclaimer of responsibility is probably due to the fact that the documentary just proved that the government's aim to impose more children and young people is a really bad idea. Unfortunately, however, the government managed to achieve the goal more or less. And I would like to ask the Prime Minister how it could be argued that more children and young people would be forced to carry children and young people when there is no control over the places where they are placed. The Prime Minister will probably answer that the Social Protection Agency has been strengthened, which may be a lot of opinions about, but no matter what, it doesn't help the problem, which, as was shown in the call from the Children's Home (President Thank you) is that the use of force against children and young people placed in care is not reported.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232251	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232252	But this isn't supposed to be a either-or. Everyone here in the Parliament Hall, in the municipalities of the country, throughout the social infrastructure we have in Denmark, must do his best to look after the most vulnerable. And there are no people who are more vulnerable than children who have already been deprived of care and cannot be at home. It is a joint commitment. No one can run away from that responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232317	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232318	Thank you. When my chairman, Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, made his speech, was much of it about the primary school we have got in Denmark, the failed reforms that have been, also the latest primary school reform, and that one has got away from a primary school that should primarily teach children the important skills of Danish and mathematics, English etc., to that primary school to deal with everything else. And it was gratifying to see that the Prime Minister also visibly applauded the message with hand signs and all sorts of things, but it was also a little late, I think. It is almost five years since the Liberal Alliance got Mrs Merete Riisager as Minister of Education, and she tried to do away with all these things, and it was with opposition from the Social Democratic Party, it has to be said. Now the Prime Minister has been Prime Minister for two years and nothing has happened. So when is something going to happen? Now we have been trying for five years, so when is something going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232423	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232424	First of all, I would like to say, without blinking and shaking my hand, that I think that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's speech was in all due respect, for there have been many good speeches • the most interesting. It is beginning to be a little, some would say boring habit, that my evaluation often does this, but I simply think that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh has the ability, although we also have many differences, not least in economic policy, and in the area of corona management, to put our finger on where there is something seriously at stake for us as people and as a society. I agree with the few words that have been said here, namely that there is something about the fact that there is too little focus on the skills that are available, which are clear, which are understandable, and too much focus on something that is more diffuse with process, competences, project, interdisciplinary, responsibility for own learning. I basically share that analysis, and I believe that one of the answers to the question is that many children who come from a family background, who may not have strong educational traditions, usually go wrong in our education system. So if we want more people to take an education, we have to get there. And yes, we haven't delivered everything in this area yet, far from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232536	Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232537	Thank you. Yeah, there's a reason we've chosen mr. Alex Vanopslagh as chairman of the Liberal Alliance. And thank you for those words about it. But now that it has been almost two years with the Prime Minister as Prime Minister, I would like the Prime Minister to say, but then we start doing this after the summer recess, for example, there will be meetings called for us to have a proper primary school, instead of flying in the air, that the Prime Minister agrees with the Liberal Alliance, and then we can agree in each of our rooms. When should negotiations be convened so that we can do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232615	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232616	First of all, let me thank you for what I see as an outstretched hand for us to go further on this track. I also received it earlier this day from the Conservative People's Party in relation to vocational training, which I myself started the day with and we imagine that there should be a discussion about primary school as part of the reform trail we are embarking on here during the summer, simply because very many of the challenges we have as a society start and end here. And in many ways we have a good school in Denmark and an incredibly good education system, there is a lot to praise, but the fact that there are so many children who do not move on to an upper secondary education, and that there are so many who get school tired, we simply need to have something done about it. So I accept the outstretched hand and also hope that I myself reached out this morning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232701	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232702	Prime Minister after Prime Minister after Prime Minister has got up and talked about getting young immigrant women into work, and the Prime Minister is quite rightly and rightly joining today, but the Prime Minister is not joining the ranks of prime ministers who, in their speech, are addressing the issue of ensuring legal protection for people with disabilities and mentally ill people. And that is, despite the fact that in recent weeks we in the Danish Parliament have dealt with a large number of proposals for adoption and resolution, as well as a citizen's proposal from #enmillion votes on it. What will the Prime Minister do to ensure that people with disabilities and people with mental illness have the rights that they should actually regard as a matter of course the legislation that already exists today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232810	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232812	It is almost too big a question to have to answer in just one minute, so first of all I would like to thank you for bringing it up. This is not something that has so dominated our debate here today, but it does not mean that the subject is not entirely relevant because some of these fellow citizens do not have a very strong voice in themselves. And that is why, of course, we must also be able to lift the debate. I believe that we are well in the process of giving the psychiatrist the boost that psychiatrist has needed for a number of years. I also believe that, when we talk about psychiatry, we need to look at how to ensure that the many children and young people who today experience a miserable experience and even have a diagnosis should not end up in psychiatry. So here too there is a need for a broader and more preventive and, in reality, more fundamental discussion about why the vulnerability we experience in our time arises. Of course, when it comes to people with disabilities, legal certainty is essential for the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232911	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232913	But I am concerned when the Prime Minister says that we are in the process of solving this, because after Prime Minister after Prime Minister and political rapporteur after political rapporteur after political rapporteur I myself was included in the old days. I have to admit that this is not something initiated by the KD, because we have not been here for so long that it is rapporteurs who really know a lot about these areas and that everyone concludes the same thing, namely that it is far from good enough. There are structural problems and there are economic problems. What will the government do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232954	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602232957	Yes, but the starting point will have to be that municipalities and regions should not start making savings every year and cutting down on the welfare society. Now the majority that is sitting today has not been sitting here for longer than nearly two years, but nevertheless we are already at the third municipal and regional agreement that I hope will soon be concluded. And we have done what we said before the elections, namely that we cover the demographic move. When there are more children, when there are more older people, we are also adding more money to the welfare society, and that is the whole prerequisite for not only seeing a lot of savings in, for example, the specialized area. So we're on it, but we're not on it yet, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233039	Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233041	Thank you. And thanks to the Prime Minister for the speech. I listened very carefully when the Prime Minister spoke of services where it had to be understood by the Prime Minister that it was too poor. These were the words used when some parties disagreed with some of the Commission's recommendations. Quite frankly, I think it is a bit poor to stand and criticise others for disagreeing with parts of it without even wanting to stand up as a government and explain and defend what one thinks about the recommendations of the Commission on Performance. I think it turned into a press release from the Minister for Employment, and otherwise Box 5 was shut down. We can take an example based on the fact that the Prime Minister made a clear promise to the Danes before the parliamentary elections that the benefits for unemployed immigrants would not be increased, but they did so by DKK 2 000. extra tax-free every month. That is why I would just like to ask the Prime Minister whether she is going to give a guarantee here today that this government will not once again enter into an agreement in which the benefits for unemployed immigrants will be increased and that it will therefore pay less to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233157	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233158	Firstly, it is the government's clear wish that a broad agreement on the benefit system in Denmark will be drawn up, and thus we also hope that the Left will be involved, and thus the Left will have an influence on how the final result will look. I do not criticise the fact that there are views on the work of the Service Commission. I think, moreover, that the Service Commission has done quite a thorough and fine job in many ways, and they are, of course, calling for us to have a much more simplified system of benefits. Today it is almost impossible to understand. So I do not criticise the fact that you have opinions, but when it comes to benefits, we always end up in a Punish war where you are either for or against. I think that if we are to create a system of benefits which also lasts just a little longer than the next elections, where we can start over and do something else, which we can do after every single choice, then it would be good to have a broad agreement where we have the different concerns. And one of the concerns that I think many of us can agree on is that it must pay for work. There must be a difference between being on a passive transfer income and having a job. There are some children that we need to help because of the situation of their parents, and there are also many of us who do not want refugees, for example, to receive higher benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233311	Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233312	It was the Prime Minister himself who said that it was poor that some parties did not agree with all the recommendations of the Service Commission, and there I just note that I think it is poor that, when a commission has done a very large and comprehensive job, it does not run, but only sends out a press release. Perhaps here too we can draw a little closer to what is meant as a government. And if the government wants to make an agreement where the benefits for unemployed immigrants are not increased by the 2 000 DKK. extra tax-free, which the Socialist Government has already given to unemployed immigrants, it is here on this side of the House that we have to look. We can hardly agree on that across the board, and that is why I am asking whether the government will today guarantee that an agreement will not be drawn up again in which the benefits for unemployed immigrants will be increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233358	Thank you. Then we get an answer from the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233359	Firstly, it is not true that a benefit specifically aimed at unemployed immigrants has been introduced. A temporary increase in family allowances has been made, which means that whatever the background may be. Let's get this straight first. What did we say before the election? We said what we are doing today, that we have no general desire for the benefits to be increased, not at all for people who have just arrived in Denmark. At the same time, we recognise that there is a problem with children suffering deprivation due to the situation of their parents. And yes, I believe basically that all children in Denmark should be able to go to football and should be able to participate in a child's birthday and have a normal child's life, although their parents may not go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233445	Is that sir? Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233446	Thank you. I would like to continue a little along the same lines, because the Prime Minister has said here today that one of the most important tasks is to get more people into the working community, and we fully agree with that in the Left. That is why we have put forward a number of proposals to promote this very thing, that is to say to bring more people into the working community. Unfortunately, the government's vote down here in Parliament has been very similar every time: no, no, no, no! We can then think about this, bearing in mind the Prime Minister's criticism that everyone else is saying no. However, since the government does not have its own proposal to make, I would like to follow up Mrs Sophie Løhde's question about the Commission on Performance. The Service Commission recommends tearing down the ceiling on cash benefits, which means that a father on cash benefits with three children will receive DKK 23,400. a month paid out. I think there's a lot of people out there thinking it's quite a lot of money for not doing anything. So will the Prime Minister not only explain the government's position here today: does the Prime Minister agree with the Left that it is too much money and that therefore there must continue to be a ceiling on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233554	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233555	In other words, there is the way in which the Service Commission looks at the services and, by the way, I share what I hear the Left saying, namely that we have set up a commission which has actually done a good and thorough job and which has been through all the corners, in fact, also a kind of ceiling, in the sense that it is very clearly defined that there must be a difference between what one can earn when working and what one receives in the service. And of course, some of what we are going to discuss in the negotiations is how big the difference should be. Because I want to be honest and say that if the difference gets too small, then we think we have a problem, because in our society it should make a difference if you actually get up in the morning and go to work or bikes or leave home in the evening to do a job all night long. There must be a difference between it and receiving benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233657	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233657-2	Thank you for the answer, which I really thought was quite good, but which unfortunately was not an answer to the question of whether the Prime Minister thinks that the DKK 23,400. is too much. Instead of asking again, I would like to ask another question. The Commission also recommends that new entrants should have an increase in their social benefits of almost 25%. Will the Prime Minister explain here whether the Government agrees with the Commission on the Awards, or will the Prime Minister give a guarantee to the Folketing and the Danes that this will of course not be voted on by the Socialists?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233730	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233731	What the Minister for Employment has said, and I would like to repeat this, is that we will also be putting forward our overall proposals in this area. As the Left knows, we are concerned with a 37-hour duty and, as we said before the elections, we have no wish to increase benefits in general. There are some challenges with regard to child poverty that we want to solve, and it is also important that working should pay off. I am not going to go into all the individual elements of the work of the Service Commission and would actually call for us, when the time is right, to sit down at the negotiating table and see if we cannot find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233806	Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233807	One of the most fatal things during the Corona crisis and the Prime Minister himself has actually been a little concerned about it is that you have tested too little. It is too late to test, and not least in relation to our staff at the care centres, it is far too late to test, which means that on 5 January the Prime Minister says that the government will now have a quick test of the staff at our care centres. According to the information available, this is not happening and in fact the opposite is happening. You go on with these PC tests, and the Prime Minister is actually told on 8 January that this is what happens, i.e. that you continue the PC tests, but you don't lighten up as the government has said it should. Can the Prime Minister confirm that on 8 January this year the Prime Minister is being told that the plan that the government wants is not being implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233905	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233906	I can refer in general to what I have already answered this question. There has been a very strong political desire on the part of the government to raise the test capacity, just as it is today, and therefore I do not think it can be said in general that we have tested too little in Denmark. I really think I am listening to a lot of people now thinking that we are testing too much. This does not change the fact that we had a desire for many more to be tested at a much earlier stage, including at the country's care centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233934	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602233934-2	I'm gonna try one more time. At the fatal time during the second wave, when our nursing home is affected by infection, and how many unfortunately die, because the employees are also infected... you don't get enough tested by the employees... the Prime Minister promises quicktest of the employees. It's not gonna happen, and it's gonna happen a long time later. However, on 8 January the Prime Minister will be informed that the project that the government has wanted to launch will not be carried out, and yet on television on 10 January he says that it will be implemented. What's right? Was the Prime Minister told not to complete the project?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234016	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234018	As I said before, we would have liked those tests to have been rolled out earlier, and I understand that a consultation has now been convened in which all questions can be answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234032	Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234032-2	It is very encouraging to hear that the government will think new thoughts about how more people get more out of primary school and how we get more skilled people, and SF is so excited to enter into further negotiations with the government about it. Because all in all, too many years we have just talked a lot about these young people who have had just enough of words, but children and young people with plenty of gunpowder are not a problem. The problem child is not the young people or the children, but the problem child is that we have an education system that does not allow us to learn in several ways. These many kids and kids dreaming of having a hammer in their hands are getting a book in their head instead. We believe in the SF that you need internship in a completely new way, in other words where you work with the business community in a completely different way. It may be in a form of master training, it may be an interaction between learning at a workplace and going to school, and it may be real occupational classes. Yes, why not build real workshops in connection with our educational institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234134	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234136	I think it sounds incredibly exciting, and I think it's right to go that way. So I'm not going to say anything negative about it. Mrs Lotte Rod from Radicale told me here earlier during the day that when teaching is best, you forget as a child or young person that it is learning, and then you just learn in the situation where you are allowed to build a house or do something else. And I think that's right. So, yes, I think we have a lot of children and young people who want to have much better early contact with the labour market, come out and try to do something else and then maybe get back to school, that there are some who need to start later in school than what they are allowed to do today. I also agree that the assessment of qualifications should be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234228	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234229	I was wondering whether we could not make an agreement today, first and foremost with the government, but actually here in the Danish Parliament, that all talk about the lack of labour will stop until we have got the young people going and it may be the 50,000 under 25 years or the 70,000 under 30 years • who do not have a job that does not have an education and who are not doing one either. Because it simply does not make sense to talk about the lack of labour if we do not solve the challenge that lies ahead of us. Couldn't that be a deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234256	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234257	I very much agree that if the answer to the shortage of labour we are going to experience as a society given already this year, because it is going well for the Danish economy alone or primarily to be the import of labour from outside, it is not the answer. We have so many young people today who are not in education, we have a lot of young people who do not have a job either, and we also have a lot of other ethnic backgrounds that are also not part of the labour market. There is so much labour in our own society that this time our vision and our idea must be that it is they who have to enter the labour market. So may I say at the end, in relation to the discussion we are having about primary school today, that this time we must bring the teachers into the discussion on how we are doing this. Because I don't think there's a single teacher who wants to send boys out of primary school without them being able to read.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234349	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234351	Thank you very much and also thank you for your speech. I heard that the Prime Minister addressed my question to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr about those citizens with minority backgrounds in Denmark who are experiencing racism and discrimination, and I have also seen the Prime Minister comment on this very specific incident at Kastrup Harbour, which has affected many of us. Unfortunately, I was not surprised because there are more of these experiences. In the Radical Left, we would like to ensure, in the name of equality and equal opportunities, that no children or adults are subjected to racism and discrimination in the labour market and in the nightlife, as the Prime Minister himself says. But we do not really think that we, the Danish Parliament, have yet stood together and acted on this. What we are calling for from the Radical Left is perhaps a national action plan, in other words a strategy for achieving this, not just in the short term but also in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234500	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234500-2	I believe that there must be no doubt today that there is racism in Denmark. It takes place, and it has many faces, and it has many expressions, and it has many forms, and it goes in many different directions. I have no doubt about what has been highlighted by others, namely that there are fellow citizens with a Muslim background who are experiencing racism because of it. I also hear depictions of fellow citizens with a Greenlandic background who experience racism, for example, from citizens with an African background, just as I also meet Danes, original Danes, ethnic Danes, what to call us now, who experience racism in the area where you have lived your whole life because you are Danish. I think it is true that it is all taking place and it is all unacceptable. Because we can't live together if it's because of racism. You cannot build a society on racism, you cannot build a conversation based on racism. So we want to be a part of the discussion. I don't have the answers to this. We can also make an action plan. I know I have said no in the past, but of course we can make an action plan. But are we sure that's what it takes, because it's in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234616	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234617	I very much agree with that, both in this regard, that things are going cross-cutting and that we must put an end to all this hatred and division. I believe that an action plan is a very good place to start, and there are also many organisations involved in this, and I am actually pleased to hear that the Prime Minister does not deny that a national action plan in this area can also be discussed. You could also take a look at the conversation we have here in Parliament, which I also had with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr in relation to the fact that we are also leaders. Does the Prime Minister not agree that it is we in here who also set that agenda and are models and role models for the rest of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234702	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234703	Well, actually, I hardly know how to say this. Now I have been in Danish politics for 20 years, and the level of public conversation seems to me to have been no lower than it is now. No one mentioned, no one forgotten; I think we all bear a responsibility for this. The tone that is today on the social media, and what is being said and written about gender, about sexuality, about ethnicity, about viewing corona to X Factor participants who just stand up on a stage and singing it's all around that's being spoken and it's being written in a way that we would never accept each other doing if we were facing each other. So perhaps it is we, as a society, who, now that we have the debate, should look each other in the eye and say: should we not start talking to each other properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234758	Then it's Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234759	Thank you and thank you for your speech to the Prime Minister. In my homeland, which happens to be Langeland, we have such a saying called: She is one of ours understood that she can be counted on. Quite frankly, I do not think that the Longlanders and the Mid-Joys feel that they can count on the Prime Minister of the country. Before the election campaign, the Prime Minister went out and said: "If there is no better idea, it is Lindholm that you are working on. Here we are. The Prime Minister has been in government for two years. There will be no better solution; that must be understood. It has been pointed out to Mr Langeland that an island with which I would say it has had plenty to contend with. Why is it that suddenly Lindholm is rejected so categorically? What's new? Why is it that before the elections people were not dismissive?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234900	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602234901	I have a great deal of respect for the development that Langeland is undertaking, which I think is extremely good reason for commending. But it is not the case that Vordingborg Municipality has not had and has its challenges. There are no citizens I know in Kalvehave who think it was a very good idea to have an exit centre right where you live. And yes, you could say at the time that it was an island, but it was no more an island than that the ferry should lie and shuttle. Of course, there is no wish on Langeland for an exit centre, nor is there in Kalvehave or on Funen or in Vordingborg Municipality, nor is there in Bording where the then bourgeois government laid an exit centre. Why? Because you have to place the exit center somewhere. After all, it is not a wish that has a negative character when neither one government nor the other government is trying to set up an exit centre. It is one of the shell tasks that is because the center has to be somewhere. So maybe we should have a debate with each other about how we do this, when it couldn't stay at the Kalvehave and when it couldn't stay at Langeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235010	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235011	I mean, honestly, the PM says it himself: it's a shell task. You've had two years to do that. It is embarrassing that no better solution has been found. Well, you can't compare Langeland to an uninhabited island. One hundred and thirty highly criminal exiles will be placed in a small community where approx. 450, in Bagenkop, an island community that has already experienced enough. Why wouldn't you just admit that you used Langeland as a garbage can? When will the government come up with a better proposal? When does the government take responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235049	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235050	When it was proposed with the island of Lindholm, which is correctly uninhabited, but with a ferry to lie and sail back and forth, there was exactly the same resistance in and around Vordingborg Municipality as there is on Langeland. I do not see that there is a difference in the way the two communities have reacted. A lot of people were sorry about the decision, a lot of people were sorry about the decision compared to Langeland. This shows something about why foreign policy is difficult, because this is the consequence of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235129	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235130	Thank you for that and thank you to the Prime Minister for answering the question. The Prime Minister said earlier that we only solve problems if we talk about them. If that were a completely unconditional truth, it could be said that the climate crisis had now been resolved a long time ago, because we have talked a great deal about it. But it also requires concrete action, and delivery has also been made. However, we must also note that when the Climate Council made their assessment of the government's efforts back in February, the verdict was bell-clear and a rather disgusting criticism, namely that the Climate Council considered that it was not apparent that the 70-percent reduction target could be reached by 2030. We have also seen the base projection from the Danish Energy Agency, which at least shows that there is still a minimum of 12 million tonnes to be reduced if we are to achieve the target by 2030. And we have to. That is why the question to the Prime Minister is this: is the government prepared to start renegotiating some of the agreements that have been reached, because we have been talking about the essential areas, and what other initiatives does the government intend to take to achieve that goal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235239	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235240	Of course, I think it is important that the Danish Parliament and the government listen to the Climate Council, and both recommendations and rice and praise are worth including in our work. But there is the crucial difference between the Climate Council and the Danish Parliament and the Government that the Climate Council must focus on the climate, while all of us who sit here must have the whole society to hang together. We must do so, both when it comes to concrete decisions in the area of climate change, but we must also do so when we talk about economics, employment, cohesion, country and city and all the other issues that exist. That is why we must, of course, include the words in the work. But it is our job as elected representatives to find the balances that make us the leader in the green transition, but that we can do it in a way that I actually think we are capable of in Denmark right now, namely in a wise, balanced and in reality a little Danish way where employees go to work because of that work we want to continue, and I think we are well on our way to that, but it has to be done in a balance, so that all of Denmark keeps hanging together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235346	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235347	I fully agree that the green transition must take place in a socially fair manner. That is also where Enhedslisten has presented concrete initiatives that show that we can easily do so. But what is not under discussion is that we have adopted a climate change law with a binding reduction target of 70% in 2030, and I assume that the government intends to live up to that. And if we are to do so, we need to deliver not only in relation to the Climate Council's criticism, but also in relation to the base projection from the Danish Energy Agency, which is based on the initiatives that are so how will the government ensure that we achieve that goal, and can we do so without having to reopen the agreements we have made and thus ensure that further reductions are delivered?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235425	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235427	Of course, we have to meet the 70-percent target. After all, this is the whole foundation for the green transition now and for the entire climate effort that many of us in this Chamber are proud of for good reason and, as the rest of the world, I would like to say here, is also looking at with some admiration. The rest of the world looks at Denmark and says: It is quite well done that not only do you have the ambitious goals and now we also have an ambitious goal already in 2025 but that you are able to do so in a way where inequality is not just allowed to explode and where ordinary people do not feel set by the necessary development. That is the work we must continue. We are not in the end, but we have come a long way in just over a year, I think, together, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235507	Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235508	Thank you. I will try to find out what the Prime Minister and I can agree on, that is to say what we can agree on. You could say that we're both Mette. Well enough, the Prime Minister has turned into the whole of Denmark's Mette; that's all I have to do is be Mette. The Prime Minister and I have both survived the summer of 2016, which was extremely hard for us named Mette, for that was where this hit "Nede Mette" hit and was played completely hysterically a lot. Then the Prime Minister and I also have it in common that we both want reforms that increase the supply of labour. There I am surprised at the Prime Minister's method of progress in relation to the Arne Agreement, which does not make a positive contribution to the supply of labour. But I hope then that I can find another place where the Prime Minister and I can agree, because I do not think it is the lowering of the top tax limit that we can agree on. We want to increase the employment allowance, too, and we want to get a little closer. However, I noticed that the Prime Minister nodded when my party chairman mentioned the possibility of removing the set-off for our pensioners in order to give them an increased incentive to stay on the labour market. Today, it is seen as a problem to figure out what to pay in tax. Could we make it simpler and allow our older people to contribute to the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235623	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235625	I do not want to be so incredibly happy, and it really is with life as a risk that I say what I am saying now, here at the start of a huge reform work should stand for the next hour and say no and yes and no and yes, because if we all do it, all of us in here, there will be no great reform; then in a very short space of time we will all be locked in all sorts of well-known positions and then we will not get there. That is why I really want to make an effort to have an open mind and not to reject the good ideas of other parties, and when it comes to offsetting, that is certainly not a 'no'. We have to find out how we finance it, but it is of course a place where we can look into jointly we have already done so in some contexts. But yes, there are possibilities. Well, may I just say in relation to Arne, it was about something else. It was about correcting an injustice that had been created, and justice in our society is also important. By the way, I never really understood that it was positive that you were down Mette, but that's another talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235731	Mette Abildgaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235732	I think I may also need to understand the deeper meaning of that song, but one ear hanger has to say it was. It may well be that the intention and purpose of Arne were different, but the result was that it gave a reduced supply of labour in a situation where Denmark needs the opposite. That is why I am pleased to hear that the Prime Minister is, from the outset, open to all proposals. Now that we are open, I think we should try to discuss what the Radical Left proposed in today's newspaper, among other things. This raise of the top tax line. This is one of the cheapest ways we can also increase the supply of work. Is openness also there from the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235810	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235811	Now there are limits to how open one should be, but I will endeavour to have one as open mind as possible. But it's not the government that carries the top tax into these negotiations. In relation to Arne, may I say that it applies to Arne as well as to thousands of other good, solid Danish employees that they have done theirs. They've been working for a lot of years. They started on the labour market early and many of them are worn out because of hard physical work. They deserved an earlier withdrawal. It is clear that when we as a society choose it, it must also mean that some of us other should do even more work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235854	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235855	Thank you. The government's residence ban is miserable, and I can hear the Prime Minister telling himself that this is a winning case. It's not. It's a loser case. It is not just because all the parties, apart from the Social Democratic Party, think so, but because it is. The Prime Minister talks about the mother who dares not send her child down to play football in the park, but what is the PM's answer to the child who says: Mom, Mom, I dare not play football because there are some threatening types? The Prime Minister's answer is: I want you to hear that, don't worry about it at all, because now we're closing the park, now you can't go down and play football at all, and then you have that concern less. Well, can't the Prime Minister really hear what kind of deception you're getting yourself into? Does the Prime Minister think that the definition of security is that we put signs up in squares and in parks and say that it is so dangerous that you are not allowed to stay there, but must go through quickly; you must not stand still, you must not sit on a bench, here is forbidden? Is that the kind of country the Prime Minister wants to lead?
ParlaMint-DK_20210602235957	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603235957	I want a country where you can really and not just on paper be safe and where there are not large groups often of young men who create insecurity for all of us. That insecurity is there. There are plenty of people who, after the opening speech, have tried to convince me that we do not have a crime problem at all, that that insecurity does not exist and that there are not those challenges, but they are there. This was our answer, and I could ask: what is the Left's answer? Because when this bill is not adopted, the situation is exactly the same as it is today, namely that there are not the tools necessary to ensure that it is all of us who are law-abiding who must be allowed to walk there, live and live there and be safe where we are entitled to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000045	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000046	I wonder whether the Prime Minister has even understood the scope of his own bill, because the answer to this is that you cannot be there afterwards. You can't be safe there because you can't be there. You forbid everyone to be there. I was asked: what is the Left's answer? The Left's answer is that we grab the troublemakers and throw them out and say, "You can't be there." It's not the rest of us who have to be thrown out. Well, doesn't the PM see that we can't create security by throwing everyone away? We create security by removing those who create insecurity that is what the Left's proposal is about so that all of us can be allowed to be there in peace and quiet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000124	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000124-2	As I understand it, the Left will in fact retain the status quo. I have just noticed, after an incredible number of conversations with people about their experiences, that the status quo is simply not good enough, because we no longer have a safe Denmark everywhere. It is not the case that all residential areas, all squares, all streets, all roads, all parking spaces are safe. It is therefore one of our most important tasks to ensure that ordinary people can be safe where they want to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000155	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000158	Thank you. I think we all remember the period at the beginning of January when we had spread the coronasmite out in our nursing home. A lot of people died out there. We heard a Prime Minister, who said on 5 January that it was now time for quick testing, because now we have to do something about this. I think we all thought it was important that something should happen. The Prime Minister repeated it on 10 January. At the same time, it is reported that on 8 January the Prime Minister was actually told that it did not happen. Can the Prime Minister confirm that the Prime Minister, when she stood on 10 January and said that now it had to be quick-tested, knew that it didn't happen out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000234	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000235	I think I have already answered that question. What I am expressing as Prime Minister is, of course, our political desire for more to be tested. By the way, it is a wish that I have had as Prime Minister throughout the epidemic. We started by not testing in Denmark, by the way, this is true of most countries, because the test capacity was not there and the infrastructure was not built. I have always believed that testing should be carried out and that massive testing should be carried out, which has also proved to be the right way to go when it comes to controlling an epidemic. And I can repeat what I said before: I have expressed a political wish and I wish the authorities had got these tests out many more places at an earlier stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000318	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000319	But if the Prime Minister expressed the Prime Minister's wish that something should happen, but that nothing should happen, who is responsible for the fact that nothing is happening? If it isn't the Prime Minister, is it the Minister of Health? Is that the system? Well, doesn't the Prime Minister have some competence to say that this has to happen and then make sure it happens? Did the Prime Minister know on January 10 that it had not happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000348	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000349	As I understand it, and I have already answered two previous questions, consultations have been convened on a number of these questions, and questions will of course be answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000400	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000402	Thank you. Then we'll have to wait for that consultation. Now I'm gonna try to see if I can get an answer to something else. In his speech this morning, the Prime Minister said that not all children are happy to go to school, and unfortunately the figures show that too. Up to 5%. of the country's children actually have school migration. In this context, I would like to ask whether the Socialists and thus the Prime Minister still have a plan to reduce the percentage of coupling in the free schools and that there is a risk that there will be free schools closing down and that there will be many children who may not have an option, but will have to continue to attend a primary school, even if it is perhaps a school that they are unhappy about being in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000459	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000500	After all, we have had the opportunity to discuss the couple rate in several rounds, and what we have expressed a wish for is that the increase that took place under the previous government should be revised downwards. We must then say that there is no majority in favour of this in the Folketing. After all, it is a little strange that the government is now being attacked for the fact that in those areas where we cannot obtain a majority we are not implementing it. We can't. A government cannot do anything unless there is a majority in the Folketing in favour of it, and I am not aware of that in this area. Then it's up to the Folketing to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000540	Anni Mattiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000541	Yes, thankfully, one might say, there is no majority in favour of that. However, I really need to know whether it is still the policy of the Socialists and, therefore, the Socialists' plan to reduce the percentage of coupling if we can obtain a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000600	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000601	Well, there isn't a majority for that. It is true that when we find that there is no majority, there are many other tasks to be done. I take note of the fact that there is generally support today for us to go ahead with the whole school issue, and there are, after all, a great many unsolved tasks. If I may just mention one in the field of free school, I would like to mention that there has, after all, been quite a large increase in Muslim free schools, which I think challenge the country's cohesion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000631	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000633	Thank you. Now there was such a little animal theme in the Prime Minister's speech, and she also mentioned the spread of infection in our mink production and the serious situation there. That is why I would actually like to ask the Prime Minister another question about how to prevent future pandemics, because this has a great deal to do with our relationship with animals. If you consult the UN Environment Programme, the five main reasons for increasing the risk of future epidemics are climate change, deforestation, intensive animal production, antibiotic resistance and poorly regulated trade in wild animals. It is therefore all something that somehow has a connection to our animal production, and I think that is actually quite serious. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what she thinks is important to do in terms of preventing future pandemics like the one we are in the middle of right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000725	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000726	I think I must be honest and say that I do not have an adequate answer to the extremely complex but also important question. I must admit that I have never dealt with pandemics, epidemics, viruses to the extent that I have been involved with them for 15 months now. But I have quite often come across, discovered and read and been informed that there are challenges in the mix between humans and animals, and that is one of the things that I think is too little today, also in the discussion about it, that unfortunately we had to put the minks down in Denmark. Someone's side sounds like it was a decision that was taken out of the blue. It is, after all, a decision related to the covid-19, and it was the risk of continued growth and development of the epidemic and a possible mutation that made that risk assessment submitted to the government. So it is really just to say that the question is extremely relevant, but I cannot give an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000832	Carl Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000833	I think that is quite fair, because it is an extremely complicated issue and many of us have had to learn many new words this year. Well, I have, for example. Never said zoonotic contagious voir before we got into this pandemic. But then I would like to hear: when it has so much to do with our relationship with animals and we see prominent experts, for example. Lars Erik Larsen, a professor of veterinary virology, is out to say that, in his words, pig production is a ticking bomb under us in relation to future epidemics, and when there are so many problems with animals that are close and risky in this respect, can the Prime Minister imagine that an effort in relation to animal production is not so intensive is essential for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000921	When you start to finish a sentence, it doesn't work that it keeps being extended. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603000927	It is a very big issue with potentially incredibly far-reaching consequences, and I cannot express my opinion in any qualified manner within 30 seconds, with the poor level of knowledge I have on this subject. After all, we have jointly decided to set up a group of experts to work on the medium-term planning of the management of covid-19, and it makes sense, also globally, to look more long-term at the risk of new epidemics, also in relation to animal husbandry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001002	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001005	I was just so happy when I heard the Prime Minister's first speech. I do not know whether this is the first time a prime minister has used a great speech to talk almost exclusively about education. So for me it was historic and I could have dreamed that the debate had also been a little more about education. And if we are to succeed in giving all children a chance, the most important thing is that first there are educators and then teachers to see the individual child, and according to the projections we have just received, we are facing a shortage of 13,100 teachers and 13,700 educators. It's really a lot of people. So what's the government's plan for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001045	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001046	We have a huge challenge ahead of us. I very much agree with that, and we can see that a number of those who choose so-called welfare education also fall away along the way. Some teacher students have told me that they think that their internship, i.e. the practical approach to the teacher's course, fills too little on the programme, and it is given perhaps part of the answer. I believe that we need to train teachers and educators throughout the country, and I think that is part of the answer. Then I am also convinced that we must free up the time both for the teacher and for the educator to work with the children and their parents to the extent necessary, instead of the management that I believe we have put down over the primary school too much, and the many bureaucratic requirements or documentation requirements that apply to the whole area of children. So I cannot give a simple answer to that, but I think there are many things that need to be done, and then I think there is something so trivial, but extremely important, that there should simply be greater respect for the teaching work again in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001153	Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001154	Thank you for that answer. And I do not really think it is unwise of the Prime Minister to answer 'yes' or 'no' to the other questions that have been raised in the autumn. But perhaps I think it would be wise for the Prime Minister to say what is then the government's ambition level. So, now that we have finished the negotiations to which the government is going to invite, how much more money do we have for welfare and how many more people do we have to take hold?
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001219	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001220	Basically, I am not going to think that it is a lot more money that decides whether or not we have a good welfare society. I have no doubt that there must be a political will to cover the demographic trend when more people have a welfare need, but I do believe that excessive governance, bureaucracy, too heavy legislation, the far too many and too hastily adopted reforms, all of that combined, have created a public sector where there is far too little time for the core task, the relationship work, the teaching, the care, and we spend far too much time on something that really does not give the individual or the individual employee well-being, and I think that is where the solution is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001306	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001309	The Prime Minister spoke a great deal about the huge number of decisions taken here during the last year of the Corona crisis. And that is true, but good governance is also that the quality of decisions is good and that we therefore also have good decision-making processes. The other day I was in some negotiations over at the Ministry of Finance until 9:00. 4.15 where the negotiations were concluded. It was here in the middle of May and we negotiated some rules on compensation packages for the business sector, which were due to enter into force from July. So it was not an acute clarification, and yet we sat until 8 a.m. 4.15 at night. We had received the papers very late in the afternoon and had no opportunity to talk to people outside the room who could provide input for it. Can the Prime Minister see that this is an unsatisfactory decision-making process for us in the Folketing? And will the Prime Minister not urge his ministers that we should not sit under these conditions and negotiate far into the night and with a short deadline to get into the papers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001412	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001413	I find it difficult for me to assess a specific negotiating situation, because sometimes, if you are in a good position and are in a room where you can feel the ability to make decisions and compromises, you can decide to continue. There are quite a lot of good decisions in Denmark that have been made far into the night and earlier and more than today also on the basis of a good drink. So I don't think I can assess that. But I would say in general terms, and it is with the risk that some in the Danish Parliament will be very uncomfortable that I think that we legislate too much in this Things and that the Lawmill is running too much and too fast. There is no proper time for reflection and reflection, and so there are some people out there who are dependent on our decisions, or people who have to put it into practice, who cannot keep up with it. There is reform on reform and every time there is a problem, we get a microphone in our head and the question: what are you going to do about it? Then there is a minister in consultation, and then there must be new legislation. I do not think we are doing well right now, either as a government or as a parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001515	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001517	I think I speak on behalf of many in the Danish Parliament when I say that I think we have experienced here during the Corona crisis that things are going very fast. And that was understandable in the spring because there was an emergency health situation that we had to deal with. However, I do not think that, when we stand here a year and a half in the epidemic and have to take decisions that will come into force in several months' time, it makes sense to do so as quickly as it does. And it is the government that has to stop doing so, because it is the government that is leading the negotiations. So I have an urgent appeal to the Prime Minister to think about this in the government and to ensure that we have better conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001552	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001553	Well, I don't think I can afford to go any further, because I'm actually listening to it go wider. And yes, huge decisions have been taken in an incredibly short time in connection with the management of corona, and that cannot be otherwise; I hear the rapporteur say that too. Of course, when we have put the critical phase behind us, we should be in a more normal position, but perhaps we should have a little more discussion with each other about whether it is wise and it is true that so many decisions have to be made all the time. What we are seeing is that in the case of great things too, the reaction is almost always, and sometimes it is also from ourselves: should we not do so before the summer? Why don't we make a deal now? And I do not think that the work we jointly provide in this time is thorough enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001638	Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001640	Thank you. First of all, I must say that it is nice that the Social Democracy and other parties, I can also hear, have finally accepted the criticism that Enhedslisten had of the reform of the primary school in 2013 • better late than never. That's nice. What I really wanted to ask the Prime Minister is that Denmark, as one of the only countries in the world, has started to send people back to Syria. One thing I wonder about is that it is estimated that Syria is safe enough to send people who are fleeing from the Assad regime back to, but not safe enough for Denmark to have an embassy in Syria. How, Prime Minister, is this connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001721	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001722	I think it is important to hold on to two things. Firstly, there is the concrete assessment of where it is safe to send people back to. In my view, this should not be a political decision; it should be an authority decision. Secondly, there is the fact that we are holding onto a temporary basis. In contrast to the rapporteur, I am strongly in favour of Article 7 (7). 3, which says that if you are not individually persecuted but have fled because of general conditions, you are in Denmark as long as you have a need for protection until we have a new asylum system. But when it's safe to go back, you have to go back and help rebuild your country. If we do not make it work and insist on it, our refugee and asylum system will collapse even more than it already is, and we will not be able to help those people who have a real need for protection. Unfortunately, I think that time is running out, but I just want to say in relation to primary school that we should be careful not to do this too easily. With the challenges we can see there are around our schools, the answer is not to say that the children should then just have to go much less time or that the requirements should be less. I think it's about making some demands that kids can actually understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001830	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001831	It is quite true that the resolution must be political. It is a political decision that people who are fleeing from the Assad regime can now be sent back to Syria. It is a political decision that mainly women who are newly educated and who speak Danish must now stand with the inhumane choice that they should either voluntarily return to a dictator from whom they are fleeing, or rot in an exit centre in Denmark, which no one knows where else to lie. Or is it because the PM is making an appointment with Assad for repatriation? Well, who's gonna benefit from this? It's hard to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001910	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001911	I mean, when you're running from something to something, it's because you have a need for protection. If that need for protection disappears because the general situation in the area or country from which you have fled changes, then you are no longer a refugee. And we do not want refugees to become immigrants. We don't. You are a refugee for a period of your life, and you must have protection there, in our eyes, preferably in the vicinity. But refugees should not become immigrants. And the fact that you have learned the language or you are young just makes it even better for you to actually build up the country that you originally belonged to and hopefully want to help become a better country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001956	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603001959	I would like to follow up on the debate that has taken place in the past on what is actually good democratic practice. I understand that when the government chose to decide that there should be an exit centre on Langeland, there should have been a lot of analyses behind it. And now that you have listened to the majority in the Danish Parliament saying that it is a bad idea to put it on Langeland, I wonder why you do not then present the analyses you have made of where it might otherwise lie. Otherwise, other proposals are being called for, and perhaps it would be natural to present the analyses that exist. Does the Prime Minister think that keeping such information to himself is a good democratic practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002041	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002043	Well then, a government must be allowed to do its job and do its thinking and get things evaluated. And then, when you arrive at a result, either in relation to what you deal with yourself as a government, or in relation to what you do together with others, then you can announce your decisions. We have to remember what this is all about. It's about some people who should leave Denmark. They no longer have anything to do in our country. In Central Jutland they have carried a very great burden and a great task for a long time, and there we have wanted to relieve them. If then there is a majority in the Folketing that does not want that solution, then there is still a problem that remains to be resolved. But starting to mix such democratic discussions into this, I find it hard to see the relevance of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002136	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002138	If you are actually asking other parties to make proposals, it is natural that they should be given a basis for making proposals instead of just saying that they should pull them out of the hat. The government has spent two years analysing the situation, and there is none of this information that the government shares with the Folketing. And yet it is now being demanded that it be the Folketing that solves the government's problem. It is the government that has created the problem by not solving the challenge of creating an extra exit centre and having dropped the idea of Lindholm, as was previously the case. Then the government will have to find the solution, or at least all analyses will have to be presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002213	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002215	Well, the government has made our proposal. That is our task. And then a majority in the Folketing has announced that a motion for a resolution will be tabled against it. And that is the decision that the Folketing has made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002229	Thank you. Now we're where we've come to the last one, and that's Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002237	Oh, that's lovely. I have asked about this before; I have the habit of asking the Prime Minister about things until they become reality. I'm thinking I'll continue the success this time about school stays. And the Prime Minister actually mentioned it in his speech, namely that there has been a culture in which children have been pressured to move faster from nursery to kindergarten, faster from kindergarten to school, and one has not looked at whether they were ready, ready for it. It's just that you've been thinking about them going through as quickly as possible. Since 2009, the proportion of school stays in Denmark has halved because the law was changed so that it was no longer the parents' choice, but the municipality and the municipality's decision whether the child should have a year extra in kindergarten. After all, both the Prime Minister and the parties behind the government promised together that we would change the rules for school stays. Then why is it that we haven't changed those rules yet, because we've actually taken this up several times? I find that this is a tendency that pushes the children and causes distrust. And we agree that it needs to be changed so let's get it done!
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002346	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002347	Well, in fact, I don't think we should call it a school stay. I think it's about making sure you start school when you're ready. What is the challenge is that you start in the calendar year when you were born. But everyone knows, and this is probably especially true for the boys, that there is a huge difference between whether you are a child, a boy it may also be girls, but it's often the boys and you're in January, so you're one of the big ones and growing to be one of the tallest, or whether you're a boy, and you're from late this year. For me, it is not really about postponing school start-ups. It is about ensuring that school start-ups take place at the time when the child is ready to go from kindergarten to school. And, yes, this is one of the things we want to do, and we have to do this together during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002429	Now my screen's gone black, that's enough because there's been too much work on it. But we still have 30 seconds left for Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark and then 30 seconds to the PM. We're gonna have to deal with that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002439	Well, I'm really glad to hear that, because I believe that some of what has caused growing distrust for our children and young people for a number of years is this pressure through the system. This leads me to ask another question, because we have also jointly promised that we should provide free psychological assistance to children and young people under the age of 25. And we succeeded in getting young people aged between 15 and 25 on the Finance Act last year. But in relation to those of the school age, we are not in the goal because there are too many, what is called invisible children, who have to wait for over a year to get emergency help if they, for example, are to receive emergency help. experience school migration or anxiety. A single word can change practice. You can change the law so you can't say you can do that to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002525	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002526	Everything we have agreed with each other we must do and we must achieve it within this parliamentary term. I have 20 seconds left, and what I'm saying now is potentially really, really dangerous. If a child or a young person really needs psychological assistance, it may be right, but we must be careful that it is not common, the norm, enormously widespread, that one should go to a psychologist when one is a child or a young person. We need to find a way to be a society where we get to grips with the vulnerability we have other than by going the psychological path, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002604	Thank you, Prime Minister. The 11⁄2 hours have passed, and that's why we say thank you. Since no one has asked for a second round, I consider the debate to be closed and we can proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption. I know that there are some screens that have gone black, so I think we should be careful to check that your name is on the display, otherwise we will not be able to vote. I could get into the system by logging in again, so try to log back in. We need to take a look at it, because the system can't handle this 20-hour meeting. We have to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002720	There are five proposals for adoption. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 145 by Jesper Petersen (S), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Mai Villadsen (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 49 votes (S, SF, RV and EL), against 45 abstentions (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 1 abstentions (ALT). Proposal for adoption No V 145 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 146 by Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB), Alex Vanopslagh (LA), Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG) lapsed. In addition, proposals for adoption are No. V 147 of Torsten Gejl (ALT), proposal for adoption No. V 148 by Mr. Jens Rohde (KD) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), and proposals for adoption No. V 149 of Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210603002826	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today, Thursday 3 June, at 3 pm. 10:00. Please refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
