ParlaMint-DK_20210211100003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Anni Matthiesen (V) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 156 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a new experimental scheme for extended free municipalities in a number of welfare areas). Karina Adsbøl (DF), Marie Bjerre (V), Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF), Henrik Vinther (RV), Jakob Sølvhøj (EL), Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF) and Mette Thiesen (NB): Request no. F 43 (What is the Minister's view that the circle of people who can receive flexible and holistic help through citizen-led personal assistance has narrowed, that there are acute problems regarding the use of on-call hours and the refusal of helpers to follow citizens in hospital, and that ordinary, everyday care and healthcare services are removed from aid schemes?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100045	The points which are now listed as No. 4 and 5 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this meeting with the agreement of the Things. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100058	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100134	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party, does. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100154	Thank you. We are here with a proposal for an epidemic law, which is probably one of the laws that has been discussed most recently. It is an epidemic law that is going to hit all citizens, no matter who you are, but which must also be part of it, that you change where power is going to lie. In the Danish People's Party we were not included in the agreement reached before Christmas between the parties that are now also voting in favour. I wonder why those parties have actually agreed to this agreement. Over the last few days, we have seen journalists take up changes in the law, about which several parties I can mention Left, Conservative and Enhedslisten have said that they didn't know about them or that it wasn't so good either. I wonder whether you know what you have agreed to in this legislation at all. I stand here with the report and never have I seen such a long report. It contains 58 amendments, it started with 61, but a few were tampered with. We ourselves have put forward 4 because we do not think it should be the Board of Patient Safety that should be able to impose and enforce people. So you agree to that from the rest of the Folketing. We also believe that it is necessary to ensure that the municipalities have the necessary protective equipment and a depot for them, so that we can be prepared on the day of an epidemic or a pandemic. We also believe that we must ensure that there is compensation for those operators who are simply going from house to house today because they cannot benefit from that compensation because it has to be negotiated, and I do not know what. The last is that we want there to be greater parliamentary control, that is to say there must be more members of parliament voting in favour of the changes you want to make during an epidemic. But no one backs that, and so we cannot see ourselves in that draft of the epidemic law. But I would like to hear what the Left, Conservatives and Enhedslisten, who have spoken a lot recently, thinks about an open cat member of the Board of Patient Safety, who can shut down a lot of things in the country, and whether, as it is today, one is satisfied with the Epidemic Commission as there will be. How can we agree to this kind of thing in an epidemic law that will work, not only on 1 March, but also on the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100434	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blix. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100454	Thank you and thank you to the Danish People's Party for highlighting the problems of the epidemic law, which we share the view of. That is why I believe that there was a small statement in the rapporteur's speech. She said it supports the rest of the Folketing. I just want to make it clear that New Citizens are not going to vote in favour of the epidemic law, and we do not support the things that are included in it. It's just that we have that clarification in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100515	I am very pleased that New Citizens say that, but I printed the report out this morning and there was nothing about New Citizens, so I hope that New Citizens will come up here and tell us what their position is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100527	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100528	Yeah, maybe we'll do it. And at first reading, we also expressed our position and said that we were not going to vote in favour of the epidemic law. That is why, of course, we are not voting for the wrong things that are in the epidemic law, and so just remember to say that it is not the rest of the Folketing, but a majority in the Folketing that does not support the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100547	I would rather say that there is a very small minority that does not support the epidemic law, and that is the New Civil and Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100555	Then there is one more brief comment, and that is for Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100559	I should just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: what does the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party think the 58 amendments that have been tabled actually represent? And perhaps I can help the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party a little, because it is in the political agreement that has been made and that was the framework of this legislation that, if there were things in the consultation answers that you would like to correct, then the parties were actually free to table these amendments, as has actually been done. In other words, Mrs Liselott Blix raises the question of, for example. Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on this subject. the introduction of automatic judicial review in this area. And the Danish People's Party has not taken part in this, i.e. the active process to get it in place. So, Mrs Liselott Blixt, it has some costs not to be involved. But I just want to hear: what does the 58 amendments in the Danish People's Party really mean if they are not an expression of the fact that they have actually tried to influence the process?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100705	So, in relation to those amendments, I think: well, hovsa, there are some parties that have not just known what this law is going to be about. For many of the amendments tabled, including those tabled by the Left, have not come through. There is only one amendment in this whole text unless we talk about the Minister for Health's amendments in relation to spelling errors and clarifications, and it is about justice that has been passed by a majority. I mean, the Left didn't vote in favour of ours, they put some people themselves who didn't get through either. So I see it as a great frustration from the parties that were actually part of an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100745	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100747	But if we imagine the situation, Mrs Liselott Blix, that nobody had voted for anything, what kind of situation did the Danish People's Party think we had been in? Then we would have been in the situation of having had the same epidemic law that we have been driving since March 2020, where it had been the gentleman sitting over there on the government benches.Does the Danish People's Party think it was an alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100817	No, certainly not, and that is why we also proposed that we could make a derogation for that law, that is to say that it could last until we had a proper epidemic law that was satisfied with. The parties that are now part of an epidemic law say: we are not satisfied, but uh, we had to do it pretty quickly. I call this an emergency law, and it must work for many years to come. And we're still giving away power to the current government, and next time it might not be Mr. Knox. Magnus Heunicke, health minister, could be a different person.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100851	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and I see that the next rapporteur who wishes to speak is Mr Beazley. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100908	Thank you. Our rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, is unfortunately prevented from being here, but I promised to take the floor and say a few things on her behalf. SF has changed its attitude to some of the amendments. It is on Amendment No. 5 of the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left, for which we are voting. This ensures that we have relevant organisations, for example. Labour inspectorate, assessments of a number of decisions. And that is Amendment No. 7, 26 and 27 of the Left, which we intend to vote in favour of. They ensure that decisions on the elderly in their own homes will be subject to the same conditions as apply to similar decisions involving citizens' privacy. We will explain our thoughts on this at a committee meeting. We also wish to present a supplementary report there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211100955	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no further brief comments. I hope that I have correctly noted the amendments. Then I can see that the next rapporteur who wishes to speak here at second reading is Mr Cryer. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211101015	Thank you for that, President. Yes, it was just the speech by Mrs Liselot Blixt that prompted me to think that I should now also go up and explain our position on it. For it is clear that what has been absolutely crucial to the Enhedslisten is, of course, that we have an epidemic law that takes into account the fact that we must both be able to protect our common health when we are exposed from an epidemic, but that at the same time we must also be able to protect our common freedoms. That is, in fact, the crucial balance that needs to be struck, and I think that, overall, we have achieved this in the draft epidemic law that lies here. So, first of all, we got through a lot in relation to the original draft from the government. And, of course, a common agreement was reached between a large number of parties, in which we have just ensured that we have much better democratic control. That seems to me to have been absolutely crucial, namely that when we are in such a situation, it is clear that power should not be deposited with the government; we must continue to ensure that the division of power can function, even during an epidemic. And we have done so now, by setting up this Epidemic Committee, which we are going to adopt here a little later today, and I think that is quite crucial in terms of ensuring democratic control. That is why it was crucial for the Enhedslisten that the Epidemis Committee should also ensure that there was a broad parliamentary representation, that is, that it became a committee at least the size of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so that there are 21 members to ensure that all party groups could be represented. That is some of what we have got into the legislation now here. Something else that we have also fought for, among other things. together with the Left, Radicals and now also the SF, has just been a question of strengthening legal certainty in the context of automatic judicial review of coercive measures, and not only when it comes to detention, but also when it comes to other coercive measures. I also think that this is quite crucial and that we have also agreed that the decisions taken will be subject to a sort of continuous sunset clause, so that there will be a four-week limitation of the measures taken, then it will have to be taken again in the Epidemia Commission. It seems to me that what has been absolutely crucial is that we now have the clear distinction between what are health professional recommendations and what are political decisions, that is to say that it will be clear, also in relation to the attitudes that come from the Epidemi Commission, what is the health professional attitude, and then there is the possibility at the political level of taking a decision that goes beyond what the health authorities recommend, or one can choose to do less than what they recommend, and one can also choose to copy it into one. But we will also have the opportunity for citizens, voters, people to see who is responsible for making these decisions and what the health recommendations are. This is what has been unclear in the course of the procedure, which has been that it has not always been sharp, to put it mildly, whether a decision has been taken on the basis of a definition of health care or whether it has been a political decision or whether it has simply been defined by, for example, whether it has been defined. have been available protective equipment. And I think we've secured that with this epidemic law. That is why some of what we have also fought for has just been that we have also been admitted, that the law is taken up for review every five years. For what we experienced last time was that we also had an epidemic law, but when it was taken up by the drawer, we could see that it was completely outdated and largely useless, which meant that we had to do urgent treatment. I do not think that anyone in this Chamber, or in the people, wants us to go through such a process again. So these are the elements that have, like, been crucial to the Enhedslisten, and also what has made the epidemic law that we are going to stand by today, after all, far better than what we have had in the past. It is also one that could be used in relation to future epidemics. And what is crucial is that we also ensure that there will be an opportunity to have it reviewed on an ongoing basis so that it can be re-examined, in relation to whether it is still up to date. And that is why we are also going to support the proposal that is before us today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211101500	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211101508	Thank you very much to Enhedslisten's rapporteur for coming up and justifying it. Because I am surprised that the rapporteur is reading some articles that actually tell us that here there is a Patient Safety Management Agency that can go out and shut large parts of the country down without it having to be under parliamentary control so says that I didn't know or that I hadn't seen that. This is very clear in the legislation. So I am a little puzzled by the Enhedslisten, who, in line with the Danish People's Party, has often taken the lead in preventing coercion against citizens, especially citizens who are neither sick, inhabited nor anything else. So you can do that here in this legislation without asking the parliamentary committee. In other words, there is no parliamentary control. That is what we wanted, and at least some Members took the responsibility of politicians for the people they have been elected by. There isn't. Now there's a court of law, and that's okay. But is it Enhedslisten's words in relation to all sorts of other coercive measures, that is to say, that they say yes to it, as long as there is judicial review?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211101614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211101615	No, it is not, and I would also like to say that the whole force of this legislation has been greatly removed. In other words, the whole question of forced vaccination has completely come out of the proposal. It is clear that there will still be some scope for coercive action. We have also seen this during the current epidemic. And we have just had the discussion about whether this is something we should have under parliamentary control. What has been the challenge has been that if you have a demented citizen in a single care centre where there is a need to take coercive action to prevent the spread of the disease, is that something that needs to be dealt with politically in a parliamentary committee? We simply do not think that is fair. We have also looked at it as it is now. If there is an outbreak of meningitis in a primary school, should the Board for Patient Safety not have the opportunity to go in and close it without it being something we should call the Epidemic Committee to take a position on? I don't think that's fair either. So it is clear that there is a proportional consideration in relation to it, i.e. when to do so? But what should not be in doubt is that there is a minimum principle of intervention and that there is also a principle of proportionality. This means that you can never resort to coercive measures without trying everything else before. And then there is automatic judicial review in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211101732	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211101734	I am surprised that the speaker here from the Enhedslisten is actually saying that it is okay for people who are not mentally ill to be subjected to forced treatment. They're not demented, they're not dangerous to others. In fact, you can just force them and put them in a hospital. Is that what Enhedslisten stands for? Excuse me, I've been wrong. And that's what you can do here. Yes, you can run a court trial, but you can also hold it for 4 weeks. We agree that we can isolate people, as we do today, and say that they must be tested. It's not that we put something into people's bodies. But you will when you treat. Should you not be able to say 'no' in relation to whether you want to have a treatment in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211101816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211101818	So I also think that the rapporteur should refrain from suggesting any scare pictures, but that is what the rapporteur is doing right now. Because this is not about the fact that when the epidemic law is passed, you can go out and do all kinds of forced treatment. Nor have we done so under the current epidemic law. There have been a few cases where this possibility has been used. This is when it has just been about people who have been cognitively weakly functioning and who have posed a concrete risk to other citizens at a care centre. That's where it's been used. It's not something else you do. It is not just going out and using it, and it is very clear from the legislation that there is both a principle of proportionality and a minimum principle of action. You can't go to forced treatment just like we're gonna go right in and start to force some people. So that is simply not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211101906	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I can see that the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Martin Geertsen, also wants to be on the platform, and it is just getting ready. Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund, and welcome, sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211101926	Thank you. What calls me up here is perhaps more that I would just like to say something to Mrs Liselot Blixt, who, in many of life's contexts, is able to excite me a little, I would have almost said it sounded wrong. Anyway, for the Left, the main features and what has been important in this epidemic law have been two things. One has been to set up an epidemic commission on one side of the government in office at all times. We would have liked it to have had a broader composition than it actually was, but it is now as it is. It is the case that this epidemic commission must be consulted as a government, and it can also make recommendations to the government in office at any time, and this is based on transparency. So it has been like one part on one side of the current government at all times. The second part is that on the other side of the government in office at any time we have the new parliamentary committee which, in a number of areas, must be able to control the government which is in office at any time and where we can turn our thumbs down if there are restrictions we do not like, and so a government must not have a majority against it. So we really have a fundamentally balanced model here, I think, where you have the Epidemic Commission with talented people, who, by the way, we have got through that too, we have to be heard by even more talented people, I would have liked to say, from different parts of the university world and other things. I think that's super good. So we've got a balanced model. So may I not say anything to Mrs Liselot Blixt about the process here. After all, it will happen in the spring of 2020 that there is a majority in the Committee on Health and the Elderly, of which Mrs Liselott Blixt is also a part, who writes a so-called report, and in fact it is that the Committee on Health and the Elders decides that the government must now get started with a new epidemic law based on popular rule, on legal certainty and on transparency. After the summer holidays, the government then comes up with a draft new epidemic law, and it is probably not too much to say that the piece of legislation that is being proposed there is in the very opposite direction. There are some of us, including my own party, who say that it simply does not work, in other words that we need a new epidemic law based on what we decided in the Health and Older People's Committee before the summer holidays. Then the government starts making a new bill, and before it is finished and sent to a hearing, we have made a political agreement. On the backside of that, the draft law then comes to a hearing, and we have, as I said in my question to Mrs Liselott Blixt before, taken up many of those consultation notes, so there is nothing unpleasant about that; I had not seen the bill before it was sent to a hearing, and neither did Mrs Liselott Blixt. So we are actually taking down that bill and looking at whether there are things in the bill that the government has submitted for the second time now in consultation, which we do not think are strict. And there were at least 58 of them, and the government itself has acknowledged something, because some of the amendments are also from the government. However, we have tabled a large number of amendments, partly based on the consultation answers that had been received, partly because we ourselves were able to see and also said to the newspaper that there were things that we did not think were strict. That is why a lot of amendments have been tabled, and I do not think that is an expression of the fact that we did not know at all what kind of process we were carrying ourselves into. No, it was because that was the way it was put together: there is a political agreement, the government comes up with a bill that comes in for consultation, and we say on the part of the political parties that there is something that is not strict, so we propose amendments to it. I just can't see that there's anything hidden, covert, obnoxious or very strange in it. That's how the process was screwed up. And then the Minister for Health and I can always discuss everything that was going on last year, before and after the summer break, and something like that, but in the end it was like that. So, Mrs Liselott Blixt, there is really no covert issue. Well, that's how it was. Now Mrs Liselott Blixt is allowed to ask the question she wants to ask me about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211102339	We will let the President decide that. Martin Geertsen Yes, I'm sorry). However, I can see that Mrs Liselott Blixt has indicated that she has a brief comment to make to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211102349	Thank you and thank you for your review, because it has been a terrible review. But I also thought that other parties might have learned something from a quick legal procedure, but unfortunately an agreement was made before the draft law, as the rapporteur also mentioned. But I'm glad it was listed, that is, the way we've had it served. What I think is wrong is that when a journalist arrives, the rapporteurs ask whether they are aware that there is now a member of the Court of Justice as parties to the agreement, you go in and say yes to the Code of Epidemics: we did not know about that. In other words, there have been some who have been worse than the rapporteur of the Left and have been completely out criticizing the epidemic law and agreeing with journalists and saying that it was not good either, instead of saying, yes, we have talked about that, it was a compromise and blablabla. So I wonder why you can be involved in legislation. I mean, just stand by what you've agreed to with the epidemic law. Does the rapporteur not agree with that, or will the rapporteur continue to criticise something or say: I did not know that we had no parliamentary control over it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211102503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211102504	In other words, there may simply be something that has slipped away for me in that legislation; that is never to be said. But I really think I can say that on my own behalf... I have made an enormous effort to read through all those paragraphs, and that is not because some of the questions I have been asked by journalists and all sorts of others have been a complete shock to me. But it comes back to what I said earlier, namely that it has been the process of this. After all, we can always discuss whether we should lay down some legislation and then make a political agreement afterwards, or whether we should make a political agreement and put forward a legislative proposal afterwards. The model here was then to make a political agreement which, like, laid the framework, and then came a bill from the government, and then we went in and said that there is something that does not stand as it should, and we then change it. It's been like the hallway in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211102551	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211102552	I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur of the Left how many amendments have been adopted in relation to the 58 tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211102559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211102600	Sir. After all, Peder Hvelplund has explained that there have been a number of amendments that we have received. For example: After all, we've got through what's all about treatment. And there are other amendments that have also been passed, Mrs Liselott Blixt, including the question of who is to be heard in the new Epidemic Commission. So there are a number of amendments that have come through. The alternative would have been just as I also tried to say to Mrs Liselott Blixt before driving with the epidemic law we have now, and I do not think that is an alternative. I thought it was about getting the power of the Minister of Health and this government tampered with as soon as possible and putting it back in the Folketing. We have thus fulfilled that promise to the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211102643	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. At first sight, I do not see any more rapporteurs wishing to speak. That concludes the debate and we shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211102705	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), joined by a minority (DF), which was rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 or on Amendment No 3, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB and LA), or by a majority of the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5 of a minority (RV and EL), joined by a minority (V, DF, SF, KF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), which together constitutes a majority? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 8 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, KF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. Fifteen, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 10 of a minority (DF) rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 13 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, KF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 6, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14 and 16, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of NB and LA)? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 17 of a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 19. Acting by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB and LA)? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 20 of a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), joined by a minority (DF and EL), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 21 of a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 22 of a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), joined by a minority (DF and EL), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 23 of a minority (RV), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 4, 9, 11, 12, 18 and 43, submitted and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 24 of a minority (V), elected by a minority (DF, KF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), rejected. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 7, tabled and joined by the same minorities, but now also by the SF, lapsed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 25 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, KF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 26-31, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB and LA)? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 32 of a minority (DF) rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 33-40, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB and LA)? They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 41 and 42 of a minority (V, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), joined by a minority (DF, KF, NB and LA), which together constitute a majority? They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 44-57, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB and LA), or on Amendment No. 44-57, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB and LA), or on Amendment No. 44-57. 58 of a minority (RV), joined by a majority (S, V, DF, SF, EL and KF)? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103215	As you know, there is no minister in this area, as it is the responsibility of the Folketing, and I will therefore listen carefully to the debate on the proposal. That opens the debate, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103249	Thank you. With the proposal to set up a new standing epidemic committee, we are implementing part of the agreement on a new epidemic law. In future, decisions to categorize a disease as a social-critical disease and to impose a number of restrictions must be submitted to the new Epidemic Committee, while there is a recommendation from the National Epidemic Commission. As I also said, when we first dealt with the epidemic law a few weeks ago, it is about finding a good and sensible balance between the need to be able to respond quickly and effectively to an epidemic while ensuring that there is broad political support. I think we have found that balance with this model, which we are now implementing, a model that must not only stick to the ongoing fight against the corona, but must also be able to deal with the epidemics and pandemics that may threaten our public health in the future. Our epidemic law must be the toolbox for both present and future governments to make use of in the fight against serious disease, so that we are well armed and not again, by the outbreak of an epidemic, to start with negotiations and urgent legislation, but hopefully can move quickly and decisively towards an epidemic, while maintaining that far-reaching decisions to shut down large parts of our society must be taken by democratically elected politicians and with thorough advice from health authorities. We can therefore support the creation of a new committee, and we can also support the fact that the committee has 21 members, as indicated in the recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103432	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor during this debate, is Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103448	Thank you. We support this new Epidemi Committee in the Folketing. And as I explained earlier during the second reading of L 134, it is, in fact, one of the cornerstones of the new epidemic law. One part is the Epidemic Commission, which we are now setting up, and the other part, which is also about controlling the current government at all times, is the new Epidemic Committee, in which, in the context of an epidemic crisis, the government in office must not have a majority against it in the context of the introduction of a large number of restrictions. We think that's really good. It is basically about the restoration of the rule of the people, also in connection with the handling of an epidemic... it may be corona or other future epidemics... so the parliament has more hands in hand with what a government is doing. So we support this wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103555	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Can I have the rapporteur prepare the platform for the next rapporteur? The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103617	Thank you very much. In the Danish People's Party we agree that a parliamentary committee should be set up, and that is why we support it, of course, even if we wanted it to be composed in a different way. At least 72 members should be able to contradict a minister's proposal to issue an authorization. At the same time, we would also have liked to see more things for parliamentary control. But when a majority has adopted it in this way, we respect the democracy that we have, and that is why we agree that we must of course have a new committee, which will be set up here as soon as possible, to take up the things that may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103706	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103718	Thank you. I can also be brief. In the SF we think it is important that we have a standing committee which can help discuss the serious decisions that need to be taken in the course of an epidemic. This is a consequence of the epidemic law that we have just dealt with in the second reading, and we look forward to discussing the details of future committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103748	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103801	As far as I am concerned, it will be very brief. We radically support the setting up of the Epidemic Committee. We think that this is a fine way of ensuring democratic control in the event of future epidemics, and now we have simply decided how to deal with this. It was just missing, and we are very pleased with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103821	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Radical Left. Next, I can give the floor to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr Rogalla. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103832	Thank you. I would also just like to say that we support this in the Enhedslisten, of course. It is absolutely crucial, as I said earlier, that we should have the clear division between a level of health care that makes recommendations and a level of politics that becomes the ones that will make decisions when we talk about a society-critical disease. I would also like to acknowledge that the proposal we had in the negotiations on ensuring that the committee was extended from 17 to 21 Members, who were able to ensure that parliamentary representation from all party groups had been widely supported, so that it would also be part of it. Because it is absolutely crucial when we are faced with situations where we have to take such far-reaching and drastic decisions as we can come to during an epidemic, that it is then something that has broad political support in the Folketing or at least has been subject to broad political treatment and that all party groups can contribute to those decisions. So we also come from the Enhedslisten side to support this proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103937	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked to speak, is the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211103954	Thank you for that, President. We also support, of course, the setting up of this committee, which is, of course, what is supposed to develop democracy, so that power comes back to the Folketing where it really belongs. This is one of the elements we look forward to: the restoration of democracy in relation to the administration of the epidemic law. So we support the proposal to set up the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104022	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur and I can see that the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party is ready. So welcome to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104034	Now that you have heard a large number of parties praise this committee and say power back to the Folketing, I think we should have a few facts in place about this committee. It is not the power that comes back, for then the power would be laid down in the Folketing. It won't be. It will be placed in a committee where the parliamentary majority can pass through what they want. In other words, there is no minority protection. There would have been if decisions had been placed in the Chamber where it should have been. Then there will be the parliamentary minority protection in it, but there is not in this committee. In addition, it is a closed committee, which means that the media do not have the same opportunity to keep track of what is going on, in the dialogue, in the debate. The citizens do not have the same opportunity to keep up with these things. That is why we are not insanely positive. This is an improvement on the present, and we fully acknowledge it. It doesn't take much either. But we simply do not share the praise of the fact that we now have parliamentary democratic control, because we do not believe that that is the reality of what is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104157	This has given rise to a few brief comments to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104202	Thank you. I was just curious to hear what kind of parliamentary control it is that is not present. Now the rapporteur says that a political majority can only take a decision in the Epidemis Committee, but I am well aware that this is also the case in the Assembly. So what exactly is the kind of minority protection we have in this Chamber? There it is also usually the case when we vote that if there is a majority, it will be adopted, and the same will apply in a committee. So I would just like to know where exactly the rapporteur sees the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104233	There are two elements to it. The first is that I have now repeatedly asked for a list of the laws and regulations which continue without having to appear on this committee, both for meetings and for secretaries and also during the debate here. I haven't gotten the list yet. What of the things that have been adopted under the interim epidemic law that are actually going to be in this committee? Is it all the things that have been agreed now, or are there actually things that can continue? Some things may have to be cut on exactly 1 March, some have this six-week deadline, and some can continue without going to committee. Well, then, it is not parliamentary control over the powers that have been placed in the interim epidemic law to the government if you can pass on legislation and announcements beyond this committee. And those things I think should be done in the Parliamentary Chamber, where there is basically a protection of minorities. You can request a referendum, you can request that decisions until the next elections should not enter into force and everything else. There is a minority protection in Parliament which is not there in these committees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104331	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104333	Now the rapporteur replied to something other than what I asked him about, but I will now ask what the rapporteur said. But I would like to repeat my question: what kind of majority decision could be taken in a committee but could not take place in the Parliamentary Chamber? So, in the Assembly, we also make decisions by a qualified majority. I am aware of the way in which we act here. In relation to what are some things that are subject to parliamentary control, I would say that it is clearly listed in the law. I do not understand why there should be any ambiguity about this. It is quite clear what elements are subject to parliamentary control, and therefore also what is not. But perhaps the rapporteur would just reply to that with what kind of majority decision it is which could take place in a committee but which could not take place in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104416	I think we should be very careful to say that things are clear. So, Enhedslisten and others have only a few minutes ago admitted that there were things they weren't quite aware of were on it and the way the Patient Authority's ability to commit and everything else that several rapporteurs said they weren't just aware of was there. So I think one should be very careful to say that there is complete clarity about what the epidemic law says and that there are no things that one becomes aware of are different from what one has always thought they were. In fact, in the last 10 seconds of my first reply, I replied to the question put by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104444	The next brief remark is to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104448	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that this is a huge improvement, both in terms of democracy and legal certainty, in relation to what we have been living through for a very long time now. In other words, an Epidemic Commission is now being set up to present its recommendations openly to the public. This committee is being set up, which all things being equal reflects the composition of Parliament in exactly the same way as the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which we know today, and there will be a recommendation that the Minister should not be allowed to act against a majority in the committee's position on matters. Does the rapporteur not think that this is a huge improvement on what we have at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104537	I am surprised at the question, because I said exactly in my rapporteur's speech that it was an improvement on the interim epidemic law that has been in place. I have just said that I thought it was an improvement on the temporary epidemic law, so I simply do not understand the question. I have just explained that I think this is an improvement. I don't think that's good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104558	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104559	What I heard the rapporteur say was that there was no parliamentary control and that a referendum could not be requested if it were the case that it came down to the Parliamentary Chamber. A referendum in the middle of a pandemic is probably not very appropriate. Democratic control and parliamentary control are guaranteed precisely by a majority in the committee, and that is the same thing in the Folketing. So I can't understand where the idea that there is this undemocratic approach to it arises. For the committee will, of course, fully reflect the composition of the Folketing. If you look at the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, there are also some who are outside the groups, so there is a fine representation there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104652	Yes, but I have certainly acknowledged that. When I criticise it, it is because it is a closed committee. Now I have only been sitting in the Folketing for a year and a half, but there is a huge difference between what people say in a closed committee meeting and what they say to the people and to journalists. It's not always one to one. That is why I think it would be a huge advantage for democracy and for the citizens out there who can keep up if things were going openly down here in the Chamber so that they could be told exactly what the various parties said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104717	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104721	I believe that we and New Citizens are very much alike in the epidemic law, and we certainly do not think this is a good law. The question is always whether it is going in the right direction or is going in the wrong direction. And that's what I understand, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen, that everything else equal is this after all better than what was before. That's what I heard, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen speak to Mr. Per Larsen. Does this mean that New Citizens will vote in favour of this proposal or against it? It was not quite clear from the rapporteur's speech that we heard, that is, whether it was a thunderstorm speech, that we would like to see the improvement that is, after all, or whether we would not want any improvement at all unless we could have the whole package. So where's New Citizen? Is it a patchy solution to which you are voting against, even if you think it is a good patchy solution, but just not as good as if you had 90 mandates or where are you?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104813	No, I don't think I'm going to describe what I was saying as a thunderstorm speech. I think I've made some speeches that would be more like thunderstorms than this one. I was just explaining what I think, and I think this is an improvement on what lies in the interim epidemic law. I think it could be better arranged; I think there should have been some things in it. But that is why we recognise that it is an improvement; we have done so throughout the process. Now, of course, the rapporteur is sorry, because he has not been at the covid-19 follow-up meetings when we have discussed these things. However, we have repeatedly stated to the Minister and also to the other parties that we think this is an improvement in relation to what lies in the interim epidemic law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104851	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104852	So that sounds unmistakable as a politician's answer, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. For Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen does not say whether you vote yes or no. It is said that it is an improvement, but it would be nice to know whether it is the case with New Citizens that you vote yes, if things are going in the right direction, or if it is the case that if you cannot get it right over there where you want it, you are just against it. And now we have heard Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, how many times has he had the floor, six or seven times? Lars Boje Mathiesen ends up pressing. Is this a patchy solution to which we are therefore voting against, even though it is better than the previous one, or is it a proposal to which we are voting in favour, because we recognise that this is the parliamentary game now and we cannot always have it all, and that a step in the right direction, however, we have to know where the new citizens stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211104942	I don't know if sir. Morten Messerschmidt lacks some cognitive skills. I think it is quite clear that, of course, we are voting in favour of this. In other words, I have repeatedly explained this, including to the committee and others, that this is our position on it, but that we do not agree with everything that is being done. But that is why it is an improvement on what we currently have. We've been saying that all along, so there's nothing awkward about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105000	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105004	Thank you. It may end up with the rapporteur finally deciding whether to vote 'yes' or 'no' to this proposal. Excuse me, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, but I think it is unmistakably misleading when the rapporteur stands on the platform and gives the public the impression that this agreement in no way guarantees democracy in relation to the efforts to be made under an epidemic law, although the proposal is in fact about the fact that the Minister cannot have a majority against him in relation to a large number of resolutions. It is the composition of the Folketing that decides whether or not the Minister gets a majority against him. So where exactly is it that the rapporteur believes that the citizens are being deceived and are in no way guaranteed democratic control over the legislation that is going to lie here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105100	I guess it's only inside these walls at Christiansborg that you can think it's misleading. That is to say, we in the New Citizens' Party should not be in favour of reducing taxes by 5%, because we want to reduce it by 20%. Well, of course we are. That is why we can accept that something is going in the right direction, although we would have liked to have gone further. But we think there are some problems with the way this committee is organised. And I think that citizens have a right to know that there are problems. This is an improvement on the temporary epidemic law. I think I have explained this repeatedly, but that is why citizens should know that what is there is is not enough, that is that there should be no protection for democratic minorities. So in New Citizens we have a pragmatic approach to it, so of course we vote for something when it goes in the right direction, but that is why we can easily problematize that we do not believe that there is proper protection in what is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105150	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105152	Thank you. In other words, all parties are represented in the committee, and that gives democratic minority protection. After all, the rapporteur stands on the platform and says that I and my colleagues say one to closed meetings and something else in public, and I do not really think the rapporteur has any evidence for this. I would just like to ask the rapporteur in the end: does the rapporteur sincerely believe that there are efforts in the epidemic law that could have been properly sent to a referendum instead of being dealt with by a democratically elected Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105225	It is my very clear view that politicians are saying one thing to a closed meeting and another to the media; I will not change that, because that is my very clear view of things. But if the SF has the impression that there is a minority protection in this committee, then I am surprised because there is not the same minority protection as there is normally in the Assembly, where 60 mandates or other things apply. So if you think so, it would not have been a problem to put that minority protection into this committee, but it has been chosen not to do so. It is, of course, a deliberate political act that has been chosen, namely not to introduce this minority protection, because it is disliked. And that's where the hops are. Because if it was not a problem that there was minority protection, why has it not been included in the committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105307	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. And, as you know, there is no minister on this point, as it is the responsibility of the Folketing. I would have liked to comment on this as President, but there is no room for it. On the other hand, what I have not heard is a proposal for further referral to committee. That is why I propose that this draft parliamentary resolution should go straight to the second and thus the last reading. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105341	The debate is open. The first person to speak is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105426	Thank you for the floor. The Corona crisis continues to be very hard on our businesses • Danish companies, Danish employees, large industrial companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, the small solo self-employed, the hairdresser and the hotel and catering industry. Everywhere, turnover has been affected by the epidemic and by the restrictions and measures to ensure that we maintain control over the epidemic. In the Social Democratic Party we welcome the fact that across the Folketing we have collaborated widely on extraordinary measures to bring companies and employees as well as possible through the crisis. This has been crucial to our jobs and our economy, and the extraordinary effort must be sustained so that we do not override our joint work now that we can see the light at the end of the tunnel, and that is precisely what this must be about today. Many companies are currently facing significant liquidity challenges due to the postponement of payment deadlines, which we have previously implemented as part of the comprehensive aid packages for Danish business. Many companies are therefore currently facing double payment of A tax and labour market contributions in January, March and May, and for small and medium-sized enterprises it is from VAT in March. That is why the draft law we are discussing here aims to give a necessary hand-out to our companies at a critical time. That is why the government has proposed measures that will provide just over 170 billion. kr. The Commission's proposal for a regulation is based on the principle of subsidiarity as set out in the Commission's White Paper on growth, competitiveness and employment. kr. In other words, the cash-flow measures adopted in the past amount to just over 300 billion. kr. Firstly, it is proposed to postpone the deadline for payment of A tax and labour market contributions by 41⁄2 months for all companies. This will strengthen the liquidity of companies by approx. 28 billion kr. Second, it is proposed to extend the A-tax loan scheme to include the payment of A-tax and labour market contributions in February and March 2021, while allowing large companies to apply for A-tax loans. It is proposed that the repayment deadline be set at 1 February 2022, so that hopefully we ensure that the pressured companies do not again fall into a liquidity gap as long as corona is expected to affect society. Thirdly, the extension of the VAT loan scheme to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to borrow an amount equivalent to the double VAT which will be settled on 1 March. The scheme is designed in such a way that the companies which cannot pay the VAT due can instead request a loan and thus convert the non-payment into an interest-free loan. The same applies, moreover, to the A tax loan scheme. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is an option that is given to companies making large tax and VAT payments and to companies that take interest-free loans and want to repay them before the repayment deadline, so that they can avoid having to pay additional negative interest in the bank as a result of the changes we are discussing here today. So, overall, the bill is one more in the series of important and absolutely necessary, exceptional measures taken by the government and the parties of the Danish Parliament to get Danish companies, jobs and employees to the best possible extent through the crisis and to limit the economic consequences of the corona epidemic. That is why the Social Democrats support the proposal, which I should like to welcome from the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten and say that they too do. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105840	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is also no wish for brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Can I have the rapporteur prepare for the next rapporteur? Exactly. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211105904	Thank you, Mr President. We can deal with a case of this kind on Thursday in February at 170 billion. kr.; it is not so often that you are allowed to do so, but it is necessary in these times. Denmark is in a serious economic crisis. The Corona crisis continues to affect Danish companies and employees. This is particularly true of the catering industry, travel agencies, hotels, shops, hairdressers and many others who are hard hit by the corona crisis. These companies are particularly affected by their turnover. The draft law must provide companies with much-needed liquidity. There is no doubt that our companies are suffering and helping cannot be quick enough. The effects of the Corona are raging and there are still many restrictions on our companies. That is why we need additional liquidity. The proposed law contains the following measures: the A-tax loan scheme is extended to payments of A-tax and AM-contributions in February and March. At the same time, it is possible for large companies to request loans under the extended A tax loan scheme. The ordinary payment deadline for A-tax and AM-contributions in May 2021 is postponed by 41⁄2 months for all companies. There is a new VAT loan scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises for the deferred and ordinary VAT to be declared and paid on 1 March 2021. These measures will immediately strengthen the liquidity of companies. The new measures potentially further increase liquidity by 170 billion. kr. to companies. However, not all the money comes out. Does that help everything? Are we gonna fix everything with this? No, we don't. For example: It doesn't solve the problem for those who have B-tax. We still haven't solved that, and I would call for that to be resolved next door. Cash flow is also one of the problems. Now I personally have little 30 years of experience from business and I have seen three killers of companies in these years. Cash flow is certainly one of them, but there are two other killers who are also present, and that is when own money is too small and equity is too small. That is an essential factor. And this issue of lending for liquidity does not help the underbalances of companies, and over the next few months we will see that accounts come out with underbalances where there is no continued operation. And we need to look at that issue too. We must assume that those companies which do not have a bottom line and which do not earn money in the next 12 months will find it very difficult to run the business further, including with additional liquidity. Because it is not enough to get extra liquidity if you have an underbalance. That is the way the legislation is drawn up; that is the way it is today. That is why it is good that we are providing liquidity, but it is just not the only medicine that helps, and we also need to inject another medicine, because otherwise patients will die. The Left is therefore pleased that the government has awakened and has started to help companies and their employees. The proposal is a very important move to ensure that the boxes are not emptied from companies while waiting for the reopening that will hopefully soon come. It will be an unbearable loss if the company is lost on the floor when we can see the light at the end of the tunnel. Finally, I should also like to point out that, when the money is due back at the beginning of the new year, we must also have looked at how much of the money actually goes back in the treasury. It is also a problem that we have not solved. But the Left is in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211110401	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. While the rapporteur prepares the platform for the next speaker, I can appropriately present the next rapporteur, who is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211110423	Many companies are under pressure these days. It almost gives itself both because of the closure in the spring, and many are shut down now, but also because of the fact that for many of them there has just been low turnover over the year, for example. in the travel industry or elsewhere where you may not have the big turnover, but still have a lot of expenses, and that of course makes you have problems with liquidity. We in the Folketing have tried to take a number of initiatives in relation to this in order to be able to support, so that you could actually get a better liquidity. And here is a bill that is doing something further for it, because there is a need for help out there, in terms of perhaps postponing deadlines, making loan arrangements, etc. But you could also turn it around and ask: do these companies not just push the debt in front of them? That is actually true, but the assessment is that if you do not do something, there will be a lot of people who will close here around 1 March, where there is both a VAT payment, plus that you have to pay some of what was postponed. So it will simply be better to do it and there will be fewer going bankrupt because you are postponing these deadlines so that there will be more survivors. But it also said that one might have to recognise that there will be somebody who will unfortunately break their necks because of these coronal closures. So I think it is a good thing that we are taking these initiatives, and we naturally support that. However, one cannot help but note that it is not more than 14 days since we dealt with a proposal in this Chamber, where there were several parties calling for this VAT deadline to be actually postponed on 1 March, or made it into a loan scheme. Personally, I even put a question to the Minister, where the Minister replied on Saturdays that technical assistance would not be provided to help make this change, then wait five days and then come up with the proposal itself and say: this is a fantastic idea. In other words, it is a bit to keep the politicians, but, as such, the companies too are fooled when, in times of crisis, we cannot give each other so much that, when there are some things we can all stand together about, we do so instead of waiting for these days by postponing it so that we can do so ourselves. There we are not in the Danish People's Party. We think it makes sense, even though we have been stalling for a few weeks now, for no reason, and we think it might be good to do this. This applies both to the part about postponing the deadline for payment of A-tax and labour market contributions, but also to the part about the loan scheme in relation to the same, i.e. both A-tax and labour market contributions, but also to the VAT part. We think that is quite reasonable. It was said that this is about 170 billion. kr. And I actually think it's a little funny that we need to pump it up to the highest possible number so that we can always pump it up to the highest possible number. Well, it's really not very good that it might not be 170 billion. kr., which companies need? After all, lending schemes are a little more targeted, and not everyone is taking a loan out there. Fortunately, there are some who keep the wheels going and actually have a sensible turnover. But it is good that we are taking these initiatives. So we support the bill. However, I would also like to make a few comments on this, namely that the best aid we can give to companies is not loan arrangements for VAT and taxes, but that is that we are actually giving them the opportunity to sell something. So, in many municipalities the rate of infection is so low that you could open up the hairdresser or to the physiotherapist, where there might only be one customer at a time, and where you could spritt off afterwards and get a new customer in. The best aid we could give to companies is to allow them to run their business, in other words to allow them to sell something so that they could get some money back in the box, so that they could also pay their taxes and taxes and pay wages, etc. So when the infection rate is so low in many places, shouldn't we open up instead of talking about aid packages, in other words allow them to take care of themselves if they want to and can? I think that would be the best help we could give them. But to conclude, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211110759	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211110817	Thank you. I'll keep it short. In SF, of course, we also think it is important to help the Danish companies and their employees well through the crisis. It is basically right to support the liquidity of companies in the current situation where, due to the covid-19, we have unfortunately had to extend the restrictions. The liquidity measures are not alone, but they complement the other aid packages that we have adopted • aid packages with measures that support companies as well as employees, unemployed, etc. At the same time, I would like to call on the government to ensure that communication with companies, among other things, concerns. the new lending opportunities will be as clear as possible. It's already a pretty difficult time to navigate, especially for smaller companies, and it's a good thing that we can continue to work together to help companies and their employees through this long, tough move. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211110910	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211110933	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we can also support the proposal. Of course, we have also nodded to urgent procedure, because it is very urgent to get started. The companies have lived far too long in uncertainty as to whether they were bought or sold. In just over 14 days' time, a great many SMEs will have to pay a VAT bill which they have not known they could afford to pay because of a lack of liquidity. That is why it is also time that we deal with a proposal with content like this. We in the Conservative People's Party would have liked to have done so much earlier. This is a very serious situation that we are in. Among the compulsively closed companies, such as the United States, the United States, Japan and the United States. Hairdressers or other liberal professions have experienced a risk of bankruptcy almost one in three companies. We cannot be aware of that fear that our companies will have to carry around for an unnecessary period of time. We are pleased that the government has seen something broader about the definition of SMEs than has been done in the past. Thus, companies with annual wage costs may exceed 3 million. kr. now also postpone A-tax; before was the definition too narrow. We also welcome the fact that a solution has been found to the transitional period from the payment of VAT to the payment of the loan, so that companies should now simply submit an indication of how much they have to pay in VAT but do not have to transfer the money. It is extremely important that companies receive clear and good guidance on how to deal with it, so that they do not get caught up because they have been in doubt about the communication from the tax administration or because it has been unclear. It wouldn't be the first time in the history of the world, or the history of Denmark at least, that some people got caught up in the IRS because of misunderstandings or lack of guidance. So the shops, hairdressers and many other SMEs are probably relieved today that they are now being helped. I am convinced, however, that those companies which can make it sound in terms of health and according to all the rules of art would much rather get out of hibernation and make their own money instead of having to borrow from the state and postpone payments. After all, these are loans and, of course, a loan must be repaid, and with no prospect of once again being allowed to earn its own money, there will of course be many owners of small and medium-sized enterprises, and not least their employees, who will continue to suffer from insecurity. There are, for example: not yet anyone who has been able to explain to me the logic that it must be forbidden to have one to two to three customers inside its small local store, while at the same time it is quite okay that people stand on the back of each other in the big supermarkets to buy everything between heaven and earth. However, despite the fact that we would like to see us move on to the reopening of Danish business, the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111240	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is ready. It's from New Citizen, and it's Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111258	To begin with, I can say that we can support the proposal for those who cannot derive it from my rapporteur's speech. In addition, we are in a situation where we help with some shifts and announcements, and that is of course positive, but I share the opinion of the other rapporteurs: let us now look at reopening some of these professions so that they can earn their own money. Now we stand here on the platform; we take turns coming up here. There's a lot of people coming up here, and then we're gonna booze off and go down. Imagine that the same can happen in a hairdresser's salon or other things where you take turns going up. After you sit and have been cut, you get drunk, and then the next one comes. When we can do this, they might be able to do it in a barber shop. Well, now have a little confidence in the independent traders out there. They've actually been living with these restrictions for a long time. In fact, they had opened up where there were restrictions at the same time. One had to remember to spritse off, there were distance requirements, and there were conditions for how many customers one had to have in the store etc. They can find out when you go down to the bakery; they can find out when you go down to a food store. Maybe they can find out in a shoe store or a clothing store. Having said this, we also think that this agreement itself has some shortcomings and that it actually lacks something. And that is why we in the New Citizens will be tabling a resolution which will also help the company's liquidity. It's a so-called carryback system. We will table a motion for a resolution in which we will allow companies to deduct their losses, for example. in 2020 and maybe in 2021, from the surplus they had in 2018 and 2019. Today we have a system in which you can bring your deficit forward to a limited extent. The problem is right now and here that there are liquidity problems in the companies, and we would therefore like to propose that a carryback system be created so that you can deduct your deficit by 2020 and perhaps 2021 from the corporation tax paid in 2019 and perhaps 2018 • of course, assuming that you disclaim that you can then forward it from there. It will actually be something that we will assess will be almost revenue-neutral for the Treasury. It won't cost anything because you disclaim the deduction you would otherwise have had. However, it will create liquidity in companies immediately. A right that they would otherwise have in 2021, they will actually have now, and that will create liquidity in companies. So this is a motion for a resolution which we will be presenting in the Parliamentary Chamber and for which we hope the parties will support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111545	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111557	I was really glad that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen started by making it clear what you want to vote. Those like me, who are a little cognitively challenged, need to know exactly where new citizens stand, especially because it is very rare for them to speak, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathiesen is holding, somehow related to the way, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen was right. That is why it is so interesting, and that is why, when it is New Citizens who are on the platform, we need to spell it out completely. We have heard in many other contexts that New Citizens are very concerned about not just making patchwork solutions and that things have to be solved from scratch, and that is why my party, the Danish People's Party, has been very concerned about this with the policy of small steps which my party, the Danish People's Party, has been very concerned about for 25 years, not something new citizens subscribe to. That's why I just want to thank you for the fact that people who have this cognitive disability, like mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has been diagnosed and I think he's right so maybe in the future it can be explained as clearly as Mr. Boje Mathiesen. Lars Boje Mathisen did today. Many of us will be happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111700	Well, I'm always happy when I can give a helping hand to sir. Morten Messerschmidt, so that he can keep up with parliamentary work. Fortunately, if you look out into the population, there is something that suggests that the Danes can follow New Citizens' way of conducting politics and our way of communicating, and that the problem may be greater for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111714	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111717	Well, I feel absolutely convinced of that, and I would certainly recommend that Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen enjoys it when it goes really, really well. You have to remember that, and you also have to remember it when things are going really, really bad.I have had the privilege of experiencing both for a number of years. So remember to enjoy it while things are going really well. And then I think I'm gonna offer to let the service go the other way, because if mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen will make it quite clear in the future how new citizens' voices, both when you vote red, yellow and green, will also help that people outside this House hear when what is said in the speech is not related to what happens in the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111755	Fortunately, new citizens are a party which is consistent in the policy we are pursuing, and we are also in fiscal policy. Other parties change from being a classic bourgeois party in which you want a flat tax, the abolition of corporation tax and the removal of registration tax, to becoming a completely saturated socialist party in terms of economic policy. Of course, parties are free to do so, but I also think that the Danes have a right to know when parties then turn 180 degrees, compared to what they originally thought. And it can then be said that a party such as the Danish People's Party today does not agree with the Danish People's Party anno 1997, and I also think the citizens have the right to know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111821	There is one more brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111829	Thank you, and thank the rapporteur, for proposing further help to businesses. I understand that there will be a motion for a resolution as soon as possible. Could the rapporteur explain how this 2019 money comes into business accounts for 2021? Is it a loan, or what is it, and does it apply to everyone? What are we going to finance? It's 1 billion. kr., it's 100 billion. kr., how much is it? Could you get a little explanation for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111908	We do not have the basic figures for it, but that is what we have to ask of the government, and that is quite normal when we table resolutions, as I said in my speech. However, what we are proposing is the same principle or system that exists in Germany or France, namely a so-called carry back system, in which the deficit that you have, for example, can be deducted. 2020. The many healthy businesses, for example. in the hotel industry, which has had a huge deficit in 2020, we believe that we should be able to deduct the corporation tax paid in 2018 and 2019, so that they can get the cash flow paid immediately now and here, which will help them to make it through • of course, on the condition that they are not allowed at the same time to advance their losses by 2020 to 2021 for a deduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211111954	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211112001	I just hit something. But is the idea in this that it should apply to everyone, including companies such as the United Kingdom? Not hit by corona? Is that a right, or how do you choose it out? Have you come this far?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211112017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211112020	If you're not hit by corona, you may not have a deficit. After all, it is companies that have a deficit by 2020 that can shift it. I think it should be a general principle that should not only be introduced under Corona, because I think it is actually a sound principle. It can be said that Germany and France have as a general principle in their business policy and their tax policy for companies that they can both carry back and carry forward, and I think that is a sound principle. But it is clear that if you have a company that has made a profit by 2020, you have no deficit that you can deduct from in 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211112046	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the rapporteur is kind enough to prepare for the Minister of Taxation to come to the floor. Thank you. Welcome to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211112109	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for the debate and thank you for your unanimous support for this very important proposal. There are a few who have mentioned from up here the importance of communication with companies and companies being ready, and of course we are taking care of that. I think we can actually say that already. This is not the first time we have had liquidity arrangements here; we also stood here in the spring. Perhaps there were some of the rapporteurs who saw yesterday that how many companies had drawn, if you will, the arrangements we adopted in the spring, which then opened subsequently. And, as I recall, 27 000 enterprises in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises had access to interest-free loans of the order of 7.4 billion. kr., I think it was. And it is many companies that have to be dealt with within a relatively short period of time, and I think it has to be said that the Tax Office, as it is called, and its ability to deal with this, shows that they have that ability. My general view is that this is being communicated quite well to companies, and it is also necessary that they pay constant attention to it. But that has just been said to say that, of course, we are also aware of it. Thank you again, of course, for your support. May I not start by signing that we in the Danish Parliament are once again able, despite some of the things we have just heard here in the end, to come together when there are major crises in society such as the one we are in at the moment, whether it is a major health crisis or a major economic crisis with very major and serious consequences, to come together to make broad agreements? And this is a really good example of that. We are in a very extraordinary situation, and that is why we also have to take exceptional initiatives to legislate in urgent procedures, handle amounts at this level. I also helped in this Chamber to deal with similar amounts during the financial crisis, but it is still rare that we are up to the level we are up to now. This, of course, underlines the seriousness of the situation we are in. We have worked very well together on the very comprehensive aid packages that we have put in place. I would like to thank you for that. This has helped to hold hands under not only very many Danish companies, but also thousands of Danish jobs in an incredibly difficult time for many families. In the field of taxation, we have taken a whole series of decisions where we have helped Danish companies and thus also helped to secure Danish jobs. We have postponed the payment of A tax by companies, labour market contributions, B tax, VAT and payroll tax. In addition, we have introduced loan schemes in which small and medium-sized enterprises have been able to recover their paid-up A tax, labour market contributions, VAT and payroll tax as a loan. Overall, the initiatives we have been working together have strengthened the liquidity of Danish business with just over 300 billion. kr. In addition, aid packages have been paid out for 28 billion. kr. Then it's true, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær said that the big number is not the one being drawn on, but it is an option. And it is true that when you look at the experience of the aid packages that I mentioned earlier, it is 20-25 per cent that is being drawn on in relation to the loan arrangements. But it also means that the tools we see here, when they are loan schemes, are being used, if you like, by those who then need it, and that is something that I think is very good. It is also clear that the continued restrictions still mean that a number of companies are challenged on their liquidity. There is no doubt that it is particularly true in the so-called experience economy, i.e. in the catering industry, the travel industry, the hotel industry and, of course, the retail trade, that the decommissioning that is currently affecting Danish society is expected to continue. In addition, a number of companies are also faced with having to pay so-called double rates of A tax, labour market contributions and VAT as a result of the agreements we have already made, where we have therefore postponed payment periods. Many companies are thus at risk of being put into a liquidity gap. The proposal we are debating today will, as I have said, amount to just over 170 billion. kr. extra, that is, in addition to the 300 billion. DKK, available in liquidity for companies. This is done by extending the loan arrangements for A tax, labour market contributions and the VAT loan scheme. In addition, we also propose a postponement of the companies' regular payment of A tax and labour market contributions, i.e. the one that will take place here in May 2021. And together with the measures already taken, the 300 billion. kr. plus this 170 billion. kr. 470 billion kr. It's not only significant, it's also significant, and it's great that we're able here at Christiansborg to get together on as big decisions as we do here. If you look at the specific legislative proposal, then we propose to postpone the ordinary payment of A tax and labour market contributions in May 2021 by 41⁄2 months for all companies. In total, this will help companies with approx. 28 billion kr. cash flow. What does that mean? Yes, it means a lot, even for the individual company. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you have a shop with 15 employees, you typically calculate A-tax and labour market contributions for approx. 120,000 kroner. per the month, and thus you will get longer payment deadlines for the approx. 120,000 kroner. In addition, we also propose to extend the A tax loan scheme to include the payments for A tax and labour market contributions, which will take place here in February/March 2021. At the same time, we allow large companies also to request A tax loans for payments for February and March here in 2021. It will provide extra approx. Seventy-eight billion. kr. available to the companies. This too, of course, is of great importance. For example, if you have a large company with 50 employees, each with an average monthly salary of approx. 25,000 kr., then you will typically settle A-tax and labour market contributions for approx. $400,000. per month. As there is one payment deadline in February and two payment deadlines in March, the company will thus be able to borrow approx. 1,2 million kr. February 2022. That is a lot of money, and what is good about the scheme we have made here is that it is interest-free loans, which will then only have to be paid back in February 2022. The application window for this scheme is open for 4 weeks. As early as March, loans will be opened for February payments, and at the beginning of April we will then open loans for March payments. As I said, the loan must be repaid by 1 February 2022 at the latest. Furthermore, we are also proposing to extend the VAT loan scheme so that small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to borrow an interest-free amount equivalent to the VAT to be settled here on 1 March 2021. It will provide extra approx. 64 billion kr. available to small and medium-sized enterprises. This too, of course, has an impact on companies. An example may be a medium-sized enterprise with a turnover of e.g. 30 million kr. It will have to pay up a total of 2 million. kr. in the case of VAT relating to the fourth quarter and deferred VAT for the third quarter here in 2021. With the loan scheme that we are now introducing, the company can borrow 2 million. kr. interest free until 1 February 2022. The application window, if you like, is also open here for 4 weeks, and it does so from 17 March to 14 April 2021. The loan shall then also be repaid here by 1 February 2022 at the latest. In addition, we also propose that the period during which the cap on the tax account has been lifted be extended from 1 November 2021 until the loan has to be repaid by 1 February 2022. This cancellation allows for a more flexible repayment of the loans so that companies wishing to repay the loans in the past will also be able to do so. It is, of course, a large number of initiatives with staggering billions in tails, but it is an expression of how big the crisis is in Danish society and how important it is that we stand together to take this type of initiative. We are, of course, constantly assessing the government, and we are doing so in dialogue with the rapporteurs, what is needed and the need that may be due to the restrictions that now characterise Danish society. But I am glad that the initiative here has been well received in the Folketing and also by the Danish business community. There is no doubt that this is something that will benefit a great many companies in a difficult time. There we have a responsibility to stand together so that as many as possible can get through the serious crisis we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113200	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113206	In the Left, we are one hundred per cent in agreement that what is proposed for us to adopt in L 166 is the right thing to do. It's just not the right thing to do. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a few questions. There is a risk that this money, which is now being given in additional credits, will go to a place in the company where there is already relatively much foreign funding, for example. loan at the bank. We also have some rules that mean that, as a bank, if a company gets an underbalance, you have to act in a certain way, that is. That you have to shut down credits. That's what you have to do, that's what the rules are. Does the Minister recognise that there is a risk that the money that goes into this place will just go into a bank credit and then the bank will close the credit?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113304	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113309	I have no grounds for commenting on this. I can say so much that when we presented it, the behaviour of credit institutions and banks was asked in these situations and there was a clear call. And so there is here today, and I hope a majority in the Danish Parliament will agree with that. For it is clear that we are in a serious situation now. When, with an historically active fiscal policy, we have held hands by 2020 only under approx. Eighty thousand Danish jobs come with 170 billion. kr. extra and therefore now overall have set approx. 470 billion kr. available in additional liquidity, it is because it is serious. That is why, of course, we also expect the banks and financial institutions to share this seriousness and to think seriously if we are in the situation we are doing there. Of course, they also have social responsibility, which is why we expect banks to be prepared for companies to come here who have been given an interest-free loan for up to 101⁄2 months, and that it will be taken into account whether you want to get on the book when it comes to assessing how companies are going to get through this crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113425	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113428	Thank you. It is also purely for the help of the Minister, so that the Minister can take it home. I believe that this is a major problem which needs to be addressed. After all, these are rules that banks should have nothing to do with socialism or anything else to do with them. These are simply rules that the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority lays down. It's just to say it's a problem. The second question I have is about the B taxpayers, who have not helped with this proposal. Is there a proposal from the Minister to help the B-tax payers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113503	It is, of course, the case that you already have the opportunity today to agree to your advance statement for 2021 and to adjust your B-tax. If you don't have to pay anything, you can reset it. So those opportunities are already there today, and that should mean that there should then be no problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113518	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113527	Thank you. This is, of course, an important law, because it is important to help save these companies and so on, so that is of course something that we welcome and support. Perhaps something that might concern us is the repayment in February 2022. After all, there are many companies that are gasping for the weather now and that are surviving, and in some cases this has a longer consequence. They want a bad order book for a long time, and they'll be running on the pumps for a long time. Do we risk that many people will not be able to pay it back in February 2022? And in that case, what do we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113606	This really is a big and important issue. What we have been doing here for many months now is that we have made huge decisions and we have taken them well together. But we have also taken them, if the questioner will, with such a time perspective that we could look forward to. And that's what we're gonna do with this. This has been said that we are going to keep track of how the Danish business community is doing. Is there a need for more initiatives? The government has said this very, very clearly: we are prepared to do whatever it takes to ensure that as many companies as possible get through this crisis as possible. We do so for the sake of employees, for Danish jobs, but we do so for the sake that, when we come on the other side of the crisis, there must also be a basis for growth for Danish industry. So the short answer to the question is that yes, we are watching, and yes, we are following developments and hope, of course, that we can get Danish industry going. I fully agree with what I think Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also said that the most important thing is for companies to make money again. And we hope they will soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113718	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113721	I actually think that's an incredibly good and important signal, because I think there are a lot of companies I've talked to myself who ask themselves: do we dare borrow this money? Do we dare take an interest-free loan? And we don't know yet. Now it is the second time that companies have come to their knees, and we do not know how fast they are getting back on their feet. After all, we cannot stand here and promise anything, but we can say that we are at least trying to take care of them, even if they are in a difficult situation in a very high number in February 2022. At least I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113753	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113757	Thank you. Yes, I fully agree with that. It can be said that it is significantly better to get an interest-free loan than to go down to the bank, as usual, and ask for the same loan at a higher interest rate, because of course the risk is there, in the economic situation of Danish society and in which the company in question may theoretically stand. So my call is certainly that these schemes should be used, and I think, as I said before, that the good thing about these loan schemes that we are doing now is that they are in a way targeted at those companies that potentially have the greatest needs. A lot of people are taking advantage of them. In the last scheme, therefore, there were up to 27 000 companies which took advantage of a loan scheme in the field of VAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113847	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the Minister. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113920	The debate is open. It is first the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211113932	Thank you. I would also like to thank the authors of this proposal, which gives rise to an important debate on some important issues. The question of whether to have international common greenhouse gas emission inventories, and the question of how to organise them, are not new issues, and there are probably some who would say that it often becomes such a little technical issues, but nevertheless I welcome the fact that we are also trying to bring those discussions into the heart of Danish climate policy a little more. So thank you for that. I should like to start by saying that I do not think it is such a good idea, basically, that we in Denmark should go other ways and have our own inventory methods. It was a discussion that we took quite seriously when we made the Climate Act, and that is why I do not support such a new climate law, in which we basically do away with the methods used by the United Nations and which are also used in other international fora, including, of course, the European Union. Let me start by saying a few words about the rather boring part of the goose-eye, because these are the arguments for rejecting the proposal, and I shall then come back to the more positive aspect, because I agree with some of the reasons behind the proposal. When I and the government do not support the proposal, it is because it is extremely important that we have common standards at international level; it is extremely important that we can compare what is going on in individual countries. That's one of them. one of the reasons why Denmark takes the lead. When we're 70 percent.'s reduction in 2030 compared to 1990 as our target, it is not only because we think it is important how much we emit in Denmark; we know that in isolation we only account for approx. 0,1% of the world's emissions. No, it's also about us helping to push others, that we should inspire others, that others should be able to reflect in what we do. We have one of the most ambitious targets in the world, probably that is why. If we started to have our very own standards and our own way of doing so, that exercise would not be possible, and we would therefore also be able to legitimise the fact that in other countries too, which could then have their own reasons for why they should not follow the UN rules, they could be adapted as they might be best. And it is not certain that it would necessarily be with green climate glasses that one would adapt in that way. It could also be of others such a little more turbulent consideration. It is very important that we, for example, should do so. look at biomass. Biomass is counted as renewable energy sources in these inventory methods, and it is clear that this is not a very nuanced way of looking at biomass. Biomass is a lot of different things • some types of biomass are definitely climate-damaging, others can be very good; now we are talking about waste products etc., which might otherwise just be deposited and lie and evaporate and evaporate. If they are used instead to create energy, it is of course a good thing. It is also clear that biomass is used in many places to replace coal, and one ensures that it is a sustainable biomass, but then it can be a sensible solution, at least as a form of transitional technology, until one stands in a place where one can replace biomass, including with even greener solutions. In Denmark, we have chosen to approach the problem in such a way that we have made an agreement to secure the sustainability criteria, so that the biomass used in Denmark must meet criteria other than those elsewhere in the world.Of course we hope that elsewhere will follow Denmark's example. But that means, for example, that... the biomass used in Denmark, provided that it comes from the felling of trees, must come from a forest area where the carbon base itself is unchanged and does not go down. It is just one of the criteria that lies and we have a large number of them. So it is clear that we must keep an eye on that, and we certainly do. We are also looking at the possibilities of phasing out biomass in Denmark in the long term. The analysis of how to do this is being prepared and it is clear that it is not entirely seamless because we use as much of what we do in Denmark and we also have to take account of security of supply. But it needs to be addressed, and so are we. Then there is the whole question about Denmark, you might say, international climate footprint. In other words, what does this really mean by the way we consume, both in relation to goods we produce ourselves, but also in relation to goods we import? What does it mean, also positive, when we export green solutions to other parts of the world? These things must also be addressed, even though they are not part of the way the United Nations is doing these things and we are also doing these things with the Danish Climate Act. That is why, in fact, we also agreed with the Climate Act that global reporting should be carried out every year, which enables us to take a political decision every year on the direction in which we should go in order to regulate some of the things that may have an impact on it. And that is where we come with the first one this spring, and we expect a great deal of that, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114532	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114536	Thank you. Although this motion for a resolution does not properly solve the problem, it is true that there is a challenge in relation to a 70-percent reduction target which does not fully meet the consumption we have abroad and transport and such things. This is something that it might be exciting to see if we could somehow solve along the way and talk about. It is clear that we cannot have our own little system. It is very good that there is a worldwide system we use. But what could we imagine? How could we do that? Well, we have, for example. thought it might sound a little strange to sniff us out and say that we must try to calculate how much it would increase, compared to how much we should reduce extra if it were so that we should also calculate the consumption we create in other countries. There we have, for example. proposed to go up to 80%. I know the Minister won't stand here and promise, but what can we do to move forward along this road?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114636	I believe that the first step is what we have taken with the Climate Act, where we commit ourselves to making annual reporting, that is to say, where we go in and measure it and qualify it, in terms of what it really looks like with Denmark's global footprint, if one is to express it a little more popularly. I am actually very excited to see what that analysis is going to show. Sir. After all, Torsten Gejl claims that reducing our emissions in the world will probably also require effort, and I think that is true, but the second part of that equation is that we are actually also helping to reduce emissions in many parts of the world. There is plenty of Danish technology, and if we didn't export it, the emissions would be higher, and that, of course, also needs to be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114719	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114721	The interesting thing is that it turns two ways. Because if we were to turn it upside down and say it's the demander who pays, then maybe we shouldn't settle 90%. of our agricultural meat production, because we are exporting it. So that would require a very, very thorough calculation. What does the Minister think of this if he now chose to reverse it, that is to say if he now chose to turn it around worldwide: could he in any way come into a situation where we can actually make a calculation that says that it is the demander who pays?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114753	I think that would be difficult, but I definitely think that we can be better at including those dimensions as well. Well, I think that if we manage to do this in a way in Denmark, so that others can see that it is actually possible, then we can hope that it can form a school. We can also actively work to ensure that others do the same. And we can actively work to ensure that this is also something that is being discussed under the auspices of the United Nations. What is our problem right now is, after all, as always when we discuss climate, that we are so terribly busy as we are. Well, I guess we have about 10 years to change course in the world, basically. Denmark has done so, and other countries have done so, but of course not all. Making completely new systems to form the basis for it is probably not possible to reach.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114843	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114847	Thank you, Minister. Now the minister started with the boring and ended with the good. I will do the opposite and start with the good and say that these are good tones from the Minister. I hear that the Minister will respond to the question and launch a discussion. But as the Minister also says, we do not have time. We do not have time for climate change change, and that is why I want to hear the Minister as question number one about, when we do not have these common standards, what the Minister will do in concrete terms to reduce emissions that are not covered by the Climate Act, because we do not have time to wait.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211114938	There are two things in this. There it is so analytical, and that is how we identify where those problems are, and there we will hopefully be something further here with the first global reporting we are going to do this year. Then there are places where we know very well that there are problems, and there we are doing well. In other words, there is no doubt that the new step we have taken now, with energy islands, is one in which we will deliver much more greener conversion than we are actually consumers of, if you can put it that way. We come with the new energy islands to have potentially 2 GW extra sea wind capacity in the Baltic Sea and 10 GW extra in the North Sea. It is just as much if I do not remember quite wrong as the whole of the European Union has today, i.e. 12 GW. Today, 1 GW can supply electricity to 1 million households. So this is an example of how we actually make a very positive contribution. Then there are places where we contribute negatively with high consumption, for example. of biomass. Well, then, we have tried to meet that with sustainability criteria, but we need to have a plan on how we can use less biomass, and that is what we are doing. That is how I think you can go, and I think that analysis will show that sector by sector through and see that there will be potential for improvement, and we are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115051	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115054	It is not so long ago that we were in climate negotiations where it was that the Free Greens just said that we should have a phasing-out plan for biomass, so it is nice to hear the new notes from the Minister, and we look forward to that being the case. Today, 15 NGOs have just been talking about our total emissions. During the weekend, 701 scientists were also out with a climate call. I would like to hear what the Minister is thinking about the calls that come from these scientists, who have come from these 15 NGOs lately. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115140	Well, I think there's a reason to make a call. I think the questioner knows that I have been doing this myself for 15-20 years now. So, yes, there is a need to do more. I do not know whether I necessarily always agree with the focus. I believe that in one of the inquiries that are being talked about here, namely the one with 701 researchers who sign, they believe, among other things, that there should be less focus on growth. There I think we are in a situation where we know that the world is going to have a few billion more people, at least, by 2050 compared to today. It gives, as it does, that more resources will therefore be used. Therefore, the way is not clear enough to look at using fewer resources, i.e. less growth. The road is probably more to ensure that the growth is colored green, i.e. for example. that renewable energy is to be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115233	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115235	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. That is quite right now that we are just talking about the inquiry that came from among other things. researchers this weekend, who have also stressed the need for this also to be done with the precautionary principle that we are facing climate change, which will have terrible consequences on a global scale. If such a precautionary principle is applied, would it not really be most reasonable to say that this is a global issue? It is quite true that there are exports, which are positive, i.e. exports of wind turbines and green electricity, but there is also climate-laden exports in the form of, for example. biomass, and there are imports of soya for our food production. From a precautionary point of view, would it not be sensible to include this in order to ensure that the approach we have becomes a global approach and that we do not just look at it in isolation from each individual country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115340	In any case, it would be sensible to analyse it and get an overview of it. That is also what we are doing with the global reporting that needs to be done. If the question is whether it would be sensible to do what is being proposed here, namely to make independent Danish reporting, which then differs from what some 190 other countries do in the United Nations, then the answer is no. I do not think it will be, regardless of the fact that I agree that there is a great deal of questioning as to whether this is the perfectly rational and proper way in which that system has been set up. I believe that we will have to play by the rules of the game and then do it as well as possible within them and, of course, make our own efforts and have our own way of doing it at national level, which will be able to control what we can then politically make of decisions here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115432	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115436	However, what is, as it were, the whole prerequisite for a precautionary strategy, which we, among other things, are. also seen here during the corona epidemic, is that when we face a global challenge, we need to take both a global approach to how we solve it, but also to take our own national responsibility for how we deal with it. And if we are to deal with this climate crisis in a responsible way in Denmark, we must also assume global responsibility, even if there may be other countries that do not do so, and to say that it is our responsibility to ensure that we are at least not burdened at national or global level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115509	I'm not quite sure where the disagreement here lies. Denmark's Climate Act is an example of Denmark taking the lead, of applying a precautionary principle, of committing more than any other country in the world, I think, to reducing our emissions, so I think we agree on that. The question is, of course, whether the climate law we have should be based on the way things are worked out in the UN or whether we should create our very own system. I believe that we must stick to the system of the United Nations, which is also stated in the Climate Act that we are committed to, and for which there really was broad support in the circle behind it, including from the questioner's own party. Despite the fact that there are those criticisms, that is probably the way to do it, if you want to have an international influence, and we will.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115557	Thank you. There are no more comments. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115620	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for having this debate today. It is important that we have a good framework for measuring and reporting Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions. I think we have that in the Climate Act. When we concluded the agreement on the Climate Act, it was particularly important to make it clear that the reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions are to take place in Denmark. In other words, our climate policy should not lead to leakage and relocation of emissions to other countries. With the Climate Act, we agreed that national greenhouse gas emissions should be calculated in accordance with UN inventory rules. This recommendation was made by the Climate Council in October 2019. Does this mean that we should not take responsibility for the emissions that occur outside the Danish borders? No, the wording of the Climate Act that Denmark has a historical and moral responsibility to take the lead still applies, of course. I believe that the government and the parties in the Folketing take this task very seriously. We have, for example. agreements that will get us one third of the way to the 70-percent target. We have agreed on two new energy islands, which the Minister has just mentioned, which will supply power to Denmark and, in the long term, to Europe. Green energy cooperation has been concluded with countries such as China, Vietnam, Mexico and South Africa, which together account for 30%. of global greenhouse gases. We take responsibility every time we make an agreement that brings us closer to the goals of the Climate Act, both in Denmark and in the world. With this resolution, the proposers want to add an additional so-called pillar to our emission inventory method. The proposers point out that it is complicated and it is much more complicated when our greenhouse gas emissions inventory method is based on the United Nations inventory method. It ensures uniformity in what we measure and consistency in comparison across countries and time. We have to hold on to that. With the Climate Act, we are committed to capturing Denmark's global influences on the climate by having to report separately on the international effects of the Danish climate action. We do not need separate pillars for that. However, as the proposers mention, we also have some challenges. This is true, for example. For it is not all biomass that falls into that category, and therefore we have reached a broad political agreement on legal requirements for the sustainability of the wood biomass used for energy in Denmark. However, biomass should only be used in a transitional phase. The Minister made that clear in his speech now, but he also said so in a fine article in Information this weekend. Another challenge is our consumption. If everyone lived as in Denmark, Earth's resources would be exhausted in March. It's the so-called Earth Overshoot Day. An important part of the transition to reach our 70-percent target is therefore that we also become a more circular economy. We must recycle and recycle our resources to a much greater extent than is the case today. That work is also under way. This is an important debate, but we do not need a new and complicated inventory method to give impetus to our climate action. That is why the Social Democrats do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115935	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211115937	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now I know that the rapporteur is filling in for a colleague, which is why I would just like to ask one question. There have been 701 researchers out, 15 NGOs, and at least in relation to the researchers, it has to be said that they are the experts in this area. They know what they are talking about, it is professionalism, and everything else must make an impression on social democracy too, when researchers say that what we are doing here politically is climate change. I just want to hear the rapporteur's opinion and say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120016	It is true that I am temporary because my colleague is going on maternity leave, and if I look a little tired, it is because I myself have just become a father, and then you have a little less sleep at night. So that's why, if that's the case. I do not think that we are committing climate change in Denmark. We're a green pioneering country. We have shown this repeatedly, and we also take the lead when it comes to looking at both how we can improve the use of biomass and how we can calculate our consumption. After all, the proposal from the Free Greens is to look at how we affect internationally. That is why we are going to look at the global footprints, as the Minister said, because we think it is important. But I do not think that we are committing climate change in Denmark. In fact, I think we can be proud of the efforts we are making.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120102	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120103	Congratulations to the rapporteur. I myself became a father 10 months ago and know what that means, all the nights you are awake and cannot sleep, and then you have to stand up and perform in this Chamber. But great congratulations. I would like to know whether the Social Democrats believe that a global CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120129	No, it is not something that the Social Democrats believe in today's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120137	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. Sir. Tommy Ahlers, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120216	I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. My kids are 10 and 13 years old, so I've been sleeping really well tonight, so I'm fresh and well-rested. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for bringing the international dimension into play. We can share the concern that sometimes, when we discuss climate action in Denmark, everything will be about the 70-percent objective and only about it, and that we do not get the international look at it. That is why we also fought for a dimension to be written in the Climate Act that we should also wear the international glasses and that a global climate strategy should be drawn up. After all, the global climate strategy has been put forward by the government, and there are many good things in it, including where we have to follow up and look at what it really is that Danish imports and Danish consumption lead to globally. However, we do not believe that a global climate strategy and to look at it with international spectacles should be about whether Danish consumption and imports can be limited by 70%, as this proposal proposes. In fact, we believe that it is extremely unrealistic, but also unambitious on behalf of the climate. Because we actually believe that instead there are a number of things we can do to make a global difference to the climate. The first is, of course, what we have heard the Minister say correctly many times, but it is also because it is so right and so good that the reason why we set a national objective is that we want to show the rest of the world that it can be done structuralally to set up a society with personal freedom and economic growth that significantly reduces its climate emissions according to the UN inventory method. This should enable a parliamentarian like the rapporteur himself in a parliament in India to stand up and say: look, they do it in Denmark, you can do it in the Netherlands, you can do it in France. It has a huge, huge effect, which is greater than limiting Danish imports. It also has a much greater effect to look at Danish exports of green solutions. There we can make a huge difference. That is what we have just decided with the energy islands. It is about the large well-known Danish companies, of which I think the five are on Corporate Knights' list of the 100 most influential green companies in the world. The more they export, the more we help around the world. Again it also has a much greater effect than looking at it, what to say, relatively small part of the global emissions coming from Danish imports. Then, of course, we must make sure that when we sit and make climate action in Denmark, we also look at whether this leads to leakage. Does what we change in Denmark so that we go down into our emissions that the emissions actually just go up accordingly in other countries? Because then we're not gonna do it. That's wearing the global glasses, too. It is very important that we keep that in mind, because we can sometimes be nervous about this when we sit and talk again because there is such a one-sided focus on the 70-percent target as a national target. Then we have to do what we actually think the government is doing sometimes with a little help here in Parliament, because we are fighting for the European Union, for example. It is becoming more and more ambitious and the other international organisations that we are involved in, for example. The International Maritime Organisation is also becoming more and more ambitious. Then we have to do it that we actually pay tribute to Danish consumers and Danish companies for doing what we want them to do, namely that they think about how they consume, that they think: Do I really need more clothes? They think about who they are dealing with around the world, and then they deal with those who can answer how their products either help make the world greener or not, what to say, strain the climate as much as alternative products. These are the measures we would like to do even more for, and it has much more impact than looking at how we reduce Danish imports. Then we also believe that there will be a natural development in global trade. The more free trade and the more focus there is on this as the big global trend, the more we will reward the countries and companies that are doing something for this and maybe are just as ambitious as Denmark, and then they will get growth, and then they will help to make the world greener. A major problem with the proposal here is that we do not have the same instruments. We cannot, in the same way, decide politically what to do. When we look at the 70-percent target nationally, we can look at the energy system, we can look at our waste system, we can look at how we change taxes in our charging system. We have a lot more things to look at, for example. how much we absorb in our lands. We cannot do that internationally, so the only thing we can do if we are to look at it internationally and look at what we import is to import much less. And there it is a marked decrease if you had to reduce it by 70%. So Denmark has a really, really big role to play globally, and it is also a role that is much, much larger than the emissions that we cause both nationally and internationally through our consumption and imports. But let us bet on those things where we can really make a big difference, rather than a proposal like this, which will limit freedom and economic growth. That is why we do not support the proposal. But we are giving points to the proposers in order to bring in the international dimension here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120724	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120727	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur mentions that the 70-percent target serves as an inspiration for others around the country. And the Greens have this ambition that we should take the lead, that is to say that we should be a pioneering country. Does the rapporteur not also think that the fact that we are setting a target for the reductions that are currently not counted anywhere will serve as an inspiration for a global debate on what and how we do with aircraft, shipping and imports, in other words, in relation to consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120810	No, not quite, because I believe that what we are doing by having a national objective is that we are doing something structural in society; our heating system, our energy system, and that we are looking at the tax system. And that is something that some other countries can copy, and if those countries can then see that, with our trade, we are actually prepared to trade more with countries that do as much in relation to the green as we do, then we actually believe that it will lead to the right decisions, instead of making a proposal and a way of doing it, where we say that we have to cut consumption significantly, and hence trade and economic growth, so that it can be done. Because then I do not think that many countries choose to have an argument in which they say: 'Oh, it hurts too much to do something green' and that is why we do not do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120849	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120850	If we put imports and consumption aside for a second and focus on aircraft and shipping, could the Left join a model in which we decide that the aircraft and ships that land at our airports and dock in our ports will be included in relation to a climate target? Could we include them, i.e. only the aircraft and the ships coming to Denmark? Could we make that as a requirement and say that, okay, we will take them into the goal if we just ignore imports and consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211120929	But no, we do not think that is a good idea, because it will again limit what we can do here in Denmark. And that is an international problem, so we would much rather do more, for example. The IMO, which perhaps looks at the Danish shipping industry, which is of course very ambitious and has said that shipping must be climate neutral by 2050, whereas the rules and targets in the IMO say that CO2 should be reduced by 2050. There's a huge difference. If we start working on it, we will get a lot more than if we start banning some ships or putting a lot of taxes on some ships coming to Danish ports.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121008	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121010	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Now Mr. Tommy Ahlers himself with the structural measures. If, for example, we do not know what to do. Looking at our heat supply, it is largely based on imported biomass. If we look at our food production, it is also based on imports, for example. Soy from South America. Is there not an obligation to ensure that the reduction targets are also there? For if the world is to look at Denmark as an example, it is surely crucial that we also ensure that our energy supply and our food production are precisely independent of imports of biomass, because that is what the world must be up against.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121053	I think that we will be fully in line with the government, namely that we would like to take part in this, if not for example. wood biomass is a transitional arrangement. And then we'll see if we're going somewhere else in the long term. But perhaps there is some misunderstanding that some wood biomass is particularly important if it meets the requirements that we have agreed on by a broad majority of people should be as bad as coal. I think that is also dangerous for the transitional phase we are in now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121120	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121122	However, one of the reasons why we have just achieved the 70-percent reduction target is that if we are to look at the long-term, we also need to have binding commitments to achieve the long-term objectives. And there will be a reduction target, including on exported emissions, if we are to achieve those targets. In other words, does the rapporteur not agree that if we are to achieve the long-term objectives, we also have to have binding agreements that will enable us to achieve those objectives precisely?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121148	We are happy to enter into that dialogue in order to look at what we have to do in the long term in terms of biomass and how much it has to fill in the Danish heat supply. In fact, this is also in the climate agreement on energy and industry of June last year that we have concluded. So we'd like to take a look at that. But to stand here and promise that we will have a binding target and how it will work, I cannot. But we think it is quite natural to look at it, because the problem, if we want to be a pioneer, is that not all countries can copy the energy supply we have if they used just as much wood biomass. So there is a problem there, and we must have a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121220	Thank you. And then it's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121222	Thank you. Well, besides ourselves we emit really, very much CO2 2 We fly, we transport, we import soy. So in addition to the Danish CO2 2 I assume the rapporteur recognizes that. Why should we not settle it and also reduce it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121303	Because the difference between a national objective and the international objective is that national we can look at how it is incorporated into our lands, how we, for example, can do so. using less energy when we make products in Denmark; there we have an opportunity to really influence it in other ways than by saying that we have to reduce consumption, that is, instead of stopping growth. If we look at it internationally, I cannot really see other solutions, compared to if it were to be reduced by 70%. If we had to reduce it by 70%. over the next 10 years, it would basically mean that we should not consume things in Denmark. And it is, of course, a huge measure against personal freedom, which, with what I also explained in my speech here, I do not really think makes a difference to the climate. On the contrary, because it limits economic growth, and then we cannot influence the world in the same way as we could otherwise by doing something other countries would like to copy, and by making some solutions that we can export.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121356	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121357	I do not know whether this would be a 70-percent reduction in emissions; we should find out. We call ourselves a pioneering country, but are we really that when we have such a gigantic impression on global CO2 then we justify it by the fact that we might be able to add to the world some technology that is generally CO2 Isn't it such a bit of a mastermind position to take in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121435	I certainly hope not, and I do not think it will be seen out there. There is no question that we may have some technologies. It happens every day now; some companies do so every day. That's also why we've had five big Danish companies on this list of the world's most influential companies or of the international companies that have the greatest prints around the world. There are five Danish companies; this small country has five companies on that list. It's because we're already in the process of influencing it. But I'm not saying we shouldn't be watching that at all. In the global climate strategy, we need to look at imports and consumption, and I also think that we should all do so. Firstly, companies and, secondly, consumers must keep an eye on and relate to how much they spend. In fact, the proposal says that it is a 70-percent reduction target because it will be included in the same objective. These are therefore drastic and rather draconian measures which we do not believe will benefit the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121523	Thank you, sir. Tommy Ahlers. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121548	Thank you, President. I think it is a rare interesting proposal that we are getting here from some non-attached Members, namely that we should add what we import to national CO2 in many ways. It makes a sympathetic sense, at least, if we look at it from a global perspective. Denmark imports a steak from Poland that a Dane eats, and the CO2 I assume that there is so implicit in it that when we export a steak to Poland, the Poles have to pay for the CO2 If that is what we are talking about here, it looks really good, because Denmark has, over the past many, many decades, had a surplus on the balance of payments, that is, that we export more than we import. Today, for example, is the day. But it is far, far from all the cement produced by Aalborg Portland that is being used to build houses etc. in Denmark. So if we like to send it CO2 One might even become such a kind of cluster for heavy industry in Denmark, i.e. the heavy industry that is just export oriented. I have never before heard proposals from these non-attached Members, which in this way will allow for a growth adventure in Denmark. I'm very, very excited about that. When I look down the list of major exporters in Denmark, it is clear that Vestas is known, also by the green movement, but Arla Food is the fifth largest export company in Denmark. Surely we should be pleased about that. I think you export for 80 billion. kr. a year. And if you can get those outside Denmark who eat all the good Danish bacon to pay the CO2 Concern for what the government, together with its parliamentary majority, had to bike together, has kept me awake for the past few months, but it facilitates, too far, the vast majority of the agricultural products produced in Denmark are not eaten at all in Denmark. It is Germans, British, Swedes, Americans and Chinese who enjoy them. I just want to say that if we are today where the non-attached Members and the other Reds can say that we can send the CO2 so I look very, very brightly at the thoughts we get presented here today. I'll tell you what. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121908	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211121928	The previous rapporteur very well highlighted the discussion we had when we negotiated the Climate Act on how this should be measured, how we should ensure that we ensure some real reductions, and I really think that the previous rapporteur also very, very precisely highlighted the major weaknesses in this proposal. For what was important when we made the Climate Act was to say: how are we ensuring reductions? How do we ensure real reductions that are comparable to the international agreements that we are part of? That is why we are following the UN statements, but we had the discussion, and I even remember that it was over several meetings, about what should happen to everything else. Fortunately, we got into the Climate Act quite sensibly, that we should have a look at our international impressions in relation to passenger transport, shipping, consumption, etc., and I am also looking forward to seeing that later in spring when we are going to see these analyses and statements for the first time. Today's discussion has also been a bit at different, slightly odd levels: whether we relate to the precise resolution, which is about making a new climate law, where we have to include the transport of goods to Denmark, production etc., or whether we generally talk about what we do in relation to consumption and the impressions that our consumption, which is indeed high in Denmark per year. citizen, of course has on the climate. What is always a little interesting in discussions is that we can stand and talk at many different levels, and very often I have noticed, even here, that we are talking a little bit past each other. We think it is really important that we constantly pay extreme attention to the consumption we have from Denmark, because we are one of the countries with citizens who consume very much, and it has a huge impact on our climate and on natural resources in general. That is why what is happening in the European Parliament this week is also very interesting. I do not remember whether it was yesterday or today when the whole strategy on the circular economy is being discussed, where our good Member of the European Parliament, Mrs Margrethe Auken, is indeed one of the rapporteurs. We need to look at how the prints we have through our consumption on our planet are not going to be the way it is today, and that is one of them. through the circular thinking that we get there. In addition, there is also sensible talk in the European Union about how we can think about it together, when we are pushing the companies that export to Europe to get the pressure down, to make an effort on the climate. There has been talk about CO2 So I really think there is a lot going on in relation to looking at it, but we need to speed up, and the whole circular economy needs a proper overhaul, both nationally here in Denmark and at EU level through the internal market, and we look forward to being a part of that. So again to come back to this motion for a resolution as it stands here, I would say I think, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt stressed quite well why it is that we cannot support this, and that is that the way it will be interpreted immediately is that if we are to determine what is the burden on things we import, we can also credit everything we export ourselves, and that is not what we are going to do. We must ensure that we have comparable inventory methods in the world for this, while at the same time acting on what we are, of course, responsible for, and that is what we are doing in the way we have described it in the Climate Act quite precisely and well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211122341	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211122345	Thank you for a good speech with many good observations, with which I actually agree. This was perhaps a little more factual than it was with the previous rapporteur. But this is kind of a special problem if we're going to continue out of that key. A 15-20 years ago, our CO2 fell so if you said that we turned it on our head in the way that it was the CO2 end of a minus or a plus compared to today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211122431	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211122432	Well, that's hard to say, because then there's the dimension that we don't have in it, which is about the questions: what about the energy we export, or what about when we're out setting up wind turbines elsewhere? So how do we repay that part of it? That's why it's gonna be such a complex discussion. We can clearly see when we look at all the statements made by NGOs and so on. has made that our impressions on the globe are significantly larger than what we actually show up because of our consumption, which is huge. That is why we need to do something about it. But at the same time, on the other hand, we also have the whole of green technology, etc. that we export, and which is being reimbursed elsewhere, even though it may have been produced here and invested in this. So I am not actually sure where it would end up, and that is actually why I think we are leaning on the United Nations inventory methods and then act and act at the same time, because I am not sure where exactly the accounts would end up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211122524	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you. And then it's sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211122550	Thank you very much for the debate. On the part of the Radical Left, we have also decided not to vote in favour of the proposal. There is plenty of important material in what we can debate today, but let me start by explaining why we do not want to vote in favour of the legislative proposal as it stands. We would like to maintain our internationally recognised inventory method. It has been an expensive victory to get all the countries of the world to agree on what the problem really is and how to calculate it and how to address it. I myself have had the opportunity to participate in some of those discussions, and it has been so frustrating during the period when there was no such internationally recognised inventory system. So that is the foundation of it all, and I want to continue to deliver exactly on what the rest of the world is delivering on. I am quite prepared to say on that account with regard to the reductions we then make in agriculture that, although it really does benefit a product that is later exported, we are not credited for it and that when we export wind power, then we are not credited for it. It's fine. On the other hand, we will not be able to settle for our imports, and I am prepared to accept that, because it is so important for me to maintain this international inventory method. It is not, of course, said that we are doing enough in Denmark, and I therefore agree with the view that we are still moving away from climate change, and I am fully committed to helping to reduce, for example, daily work. our use of biomass. We would like to focus more on geothermal and other technologies; we would also like to help look at low-level soil set-aside and all sorts of other things. There is hardly the remedy in the reductions that we are not prepared to go into, but I do not want to touch the internationally recognised method of inventory. So it's gonna be a no from here. But I would like to give a lot of encouragement to the authors of the motion because I think it is quite fine to take the debate. And here I have explained why we are voting no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211122746	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211122807	Thank you. The Climate Act was a new break in Danish politics. For the first time, we had a climate target set by law, and not just a climate target, but also, in fact, an extremely ambitious one. On top of that, we were able to ensure that this should be achieved with real national reductions. It's over with quotas and over with indulgence. We stated that forward-looking action is only real action that counts. That is why I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank today's authors. Because before the elections, it was the Alternative and Enhedslisten, who were the only ones who stood behind the 70-percent target, and I am aware that it is both about the alternative and now also the three non-attached Members from the Free Greens, but that does not change the fact that they were.It is also important to recognise that the Climate Act does not in itself mean that Denmark lives up to the Paris Agreement. First of all, of course, we must meet the objectives of the Climate Act, and I do not think I am the only one in this Chamber today who doubts that there really is political support for that. It certainly requires a different political courage and a different political will from more parties than we have seen in the past year. I would like to make it clear with seven inch nails: For the Enhedslisten, the 70-percent objective has been cut in granite. We can't deviate from that. But that's just one side of it. At the same time, the proposers are quite right in saying that there is a huge deficiency in the Climate Act and the national objective. Our imports are not included, apart from some rather vague wordings and unclear statements. This means that the Climate Act does not address the massive part of our climate impact, which is not measured in Denmark but exported. This applies, among other things, to: imports of soya from South America, which are used for pig feed and contribute directly to deforestation in the Amazon. This applies to imports of biomass, which represents an excessive proportion of Denmark's energy production and for inscrutable reasons still counts as CO2 and this applies to all flights out of the country, where Denmark, as one of a few countries in the EU, still does not have an air tax. These are only three of the areas where Denmark's climate impact is significant, but where it does not count in Denmark's climate inventory or objective. It goes without saying that it is not sustainable. In the past, the Enhedslisten has also proposed that all these areas should be corrected, unfortunately, without a majority behind it. If Denmark is to take the climate crisis seriously and address the green transition, BUPL needs to look at our influence beyond its own borders. This is true in relation to the export of green electricity and wind turbine technology, but it also applies when Denmark is a negative force in the world. That is why the proposal for a Climate Act 2.0 is both sensible and important, and therefore Enhedslisten also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123118	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123120	Thank you. It's a little bit to continue what I actually talked about before, i.e. this about what it is we're fighting and what we're not doing. And I think that the rapporteur himself will actually say this in the end, namely that there is also the green stream that we are exporting. I just have to ask whether it does not concern the rapporteur if we are going to have to calculate everything, that is, the plus-minus account that we would then get into. That was one of the issues discussed in connection with the Climate Act: that all right, if we suddenly have to count on everything we are burdening, we also have to be reimbursed on the other side. I can tell you that some people were sitting around the table smiling when we talked about it. Then the rapporteur is not worried about starting a very complex account, where there are both pluses and minuses, instead of acting quite specifically in relation to, for example, air fares and so on.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123212	I think it is a combination, because while we have to act concretely, we also have to recognise that there is a problem with that CO2 and it is clear that there are also some positive effects with regard to green power and now with energy islands and other things. But I see nothing more than that we have to deal with that problem and also recognise that, as it is at present, we have massive exports of our CO2 and, if we are going to do so, we also have to set clear objectives for how to reduce it, otherwise I am afraid that it will just go on talking again. In any case, I think that the picture in relation to the Climate Act scares me, because if we had not had the 70-percent objective, which we could actually tie it up on, we would have been much worse off than we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123303	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123306	But again I have to ask whether it does not concern the rapporteur. For the rapporteur stands and supports a motion for a resolution which very precisely describes what needs to be done. And if it is that we are actually going to do what the proposal says, then we must also prove the things in which we export a green energy and thus get on the credit line, so to speak. And is the rapporteur really willing to go into the very complex accounting and look at where there are plus and minus, rather than sticking to a climate law that also has an international purpose and then act on the things that we have to act on?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123339	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123340	Well, this isn't a matter of not sticking to the Climate Act. It is a matter of building on the Climate Act. This is about us partly meeting what is in the Climate Act, but we also have to address the second challenge. And there I think we will just have to recognise that if we do not flesh out the objective that lies in it, then we will get nowhere in relation to it. I think we will have to do that if we are to recognise the import issue, both of feed for our food production, but also of biomass for our heat supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123411	Here you go, sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123415	In order to stay on that track, I would like to ask: does the rapporteur recognise that if we adopt this proposal, we will no longer have to calculate 80-90 per cent. of our agriculture • e.g. All the bacon we send to England is no longer to be settled, because it has to be settled in England and that we are going to get into a very, very large calculation that we have no sense of where it ends? Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123442-2	Well, obviously, this is about it becoming a pretty complex problem. This is also recorded in the resolution itself. I do not think we are going to escape the challenge of the fact that if we do not recognise that problem and say that we also have to have concrete objectives for this, then we will not solve it. The problem is that, even with the climate legislation we have today, even with the international agreements that have been concluded, large exports of CO2 are still taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123517	Well, I do not think there are any parties here in the Danish Parliament who do not recognise the challenge of setting a CO2 but if the rapporteur thinks that this is the solution, that this proposal should be adopted, then the rapporteur opens up a calculation which the rapporteur does not know how to work together at all, how to end up or know the consequences of, in view of the fact that we are going to abolish the method of calculation that has succeeded in introducing into the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123547	Well, we know what the calculation looks like, because it is absolutely true that if we take the example of bacon exports, it is the case that the production of pork in Denmark is completely dependent on imports of soya primarily from South America, and it seizes huge areas down there and has huge consequences. And if we're going to go into that equation, we're also going to have to be specific about what this means. And I'm not afraid to go into that, because there's a clear connection here: If you have a large animal production, you are also involved in confiscating huge areas that you will have to use for protein feed for animal production.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123625	Thank you. There are no more comments. I'm sorry about my cough. I can say I've had corona, so I'm not contagious, I guess. That's different. Then it is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123651	Thank you for that, and thank you for the floor, and thank you to the proposers for pushing and working for more ambitious climate plans. This is among other things. the energy that has brought us to where we are today, with a climate agreement with a 70-percent target by 2030. According to the proposers, a Climate Act 2.0 should also take into account consumption-based emissions from production abroad as well as emissions from international transport. It is sympathetic, and it is quite true that the Climate Act relates only to domestic sectors. We only reduce domestic emissions and not emissions from shipping and air travel and emissions from goods that we consume in Denmark. This means that it doesn't really cost anything on the climate accounting to buy a pair of shoes, which you could come up with, produced in another country, and have them transported to Denmark. Nor should we be accountable for emissions in connection with the production of e.g. A new car. This is a problem because it is consumption that drives CO2 but we follow the principle of calculation from the United Nations, the so-called territorial principle. It is probably also sensible to try first and foremost to reduce emissions on Danish soil. This is where we have easy access to talk to businesses and help each other with the transition • politicians, society, citizens, industry and technology. As a society and politicians, we cannot do so much, at least not in relative terms, by the emissions associated with the production of goods in other countries, except, of course, to take the lead in pushing and making international agreements and solutions that one would like to comply with. In addition, the climate agreement is already so ambitious that today we do not even know all the solutions to how to achieve our 70-percent target. Frankly, we do not need, at least not right now, to deal with how emissions can be reduced in countries that we do not know or have access to. We have agreed on a record ambitious target for the green transition, and I think we should focus on that and stick to it. Conservatives cannot therefore vote in favour of the otherwise sympathetic proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123901	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizen, when it's drunk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211123918	Thank you for the floor. New citizens are opposed to the Climate Act. The Climate Act with its overall objective of a 70-percent reduction of CO2 Here, a decision has been taken to achieve an objective without costs and means being assessed in advance, and it is even a decision that is purely symbolic policy. The Danish one time will have no influence on the world's total CO2 Denmark's emissions are only 0.1 per cent. of the world's total emissions. The present resolution will increase the amount of CO2 that makes the target even more unrealistic. In addition to the CO2 2 2 It is possible that I have misunderstood it, but I think it is only clear from the proposal that something should be added. That would help, for example, in agriculture, where 75%. We are now negotiating an area for export. It looks as if the resolution is designed to make the amount of CO2 it does not make sense that Denmark should go so far ahead of all other countries, even without it having any impact on global emissions. New citizens cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124048	Thank you. No comment. There isn't anyone from the Liberal Alliance, so we're moving on to Mr. Simpson's. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124130	Thank you, President. One might ask whether we should limit the Danish CO2 Yes, that is why we have set a 70-percent reduction target. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur says that it has been carved in granite it is not for us. We want it up and we have proposed 80%. Should we also look at our imports, because in addition to the Danish CO 2 2 Yes, we do. Can this be done by means of this motion for a resolution? In my opinion, no. Is the proposal justified? In my opinion, yes. Because it's incredibly important that we start looking at how we reduce the CO2 I'm just afraid, although this resolution has a good intention that it can actually be harmful in the long run, because it brings us into a set-off situation where we are going to pay for the reduction of the CO2 but others are going to have to pay for the emissions of CO2 Well, it has to go both ways otherwise it will be difficult. If we then produce energy islands which produce more power than we consume, then we will get into such a kind of surplus business, which could mean that we are going to lower our internal CO2 reduction targets and that would be a complete increase. So, although there are good intentions in this proposal, I do not think it has really been calculated to the end. It is clear that we need to find solutions, and that is what I like about this proposal, because it brings us forward to finding solutions on how to reduce indirect CO2 emissions, and that is something I fully agree with, and there are several parties that have made good proposals for that. However, I do not understand that the Enhedslisten supports a proposal which does not solve the problem. Well, it is very opportune to support all kinds of green proposals now when researchers and all sorts of pressure and all the green organisations are angry. Then you get it like this: well, we support everything. But we have to be careful about that. We need to stay cool and think. I think it is to go from climate beer to climateutopia, when Enhedslisten is first in a car agreement that puts 600,000 more cars on the street by 2030, and then afterwards votes for this, which in reality risks creating a net opportunity for Denmark to take CO2 In the alternative, we would like to find solutions for how we can tax air travel. Surely we have also proposed an air tax. We have to take responsibility for the goods we transport around the world • we have to take responsibility for those things. We need to find ways to do it, and we are also on our way. And I also think that SF has some good points about the work that is happening internationally. But starting to turn it all upside down and abolishing the international systems we've set up to limit CO2 So in the alternative, we're happy with this debate and we hope that it's pushing us to move forward faster in reducing our indirect CO2 We actually think that it might be problematic for the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124550	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124552	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now everyone in here is assuming that we're going to set off. There is nothing in the proposal to set off. The proposal says that we must reduce our consumption. So, if I put that point of view to Mr. Torsten Gejl, will the alternative support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124611	So, in the alternative, we think we should be ready to reduce our consumption if necessary. We do not believe that the sustainable transition is just a new growth adventure with a green sign. We can easily get into a situation where we have to lower our consumption, where we have to have our mobile phone longer and repair it when it breaks, instead of just changing it out, that we have to lower our air usage and that we have to lower our intake of red steaks. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124644	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124646	Just to be absolutely sure, says sir. Torsten Gejl yes to support the proposal now that I have made it clear that we do not want a set-off with the proposal? The proposal does not put it up for that to be looked at afterwards. The proposal suggests that we reduce our consumption. And now, when I've made the premise clear, that is. that it is not a complicated account where we set aside the alternative will then support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124711	Then the proposers have to rewrite it so that you can understand it, because the moment we have to reduce our indirect CO2 that's what this proposal is doing. Then it is the others who have to pay for the imports or reduce CO2 That is where I do not think it is connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124741	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124745	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I can hear that in general we agree on the objective in relation to this, that is to say that we have to do something about this problem. The question is: what means are we going to use, and I shall just listen to the rapporteur, whether to start looking at this and have binding targets in relation to limiting emissions of CO2 also exported?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124822	I totally agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124827	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124828	But then what I do not quite understand is why this motion for a resolution cannot be supported, because that is precisely what this resolution is about. It is that we must ensure that we start to have concrete objectives in relation to that. Then there may be some things, in terms of how we figure it out, but the point of this proposal is, of course, that we are doing a pillar two, where we can say that in relation to the exported emissions we also have to have concrete objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124851	Well, I wish that this was what Enhedslisten put forward for us to debate, talk about and find out, instead of supporting a proposal that, in my opinion, as I read it, turns things upside down and makes us in fact in Denmark come to just as much as having occasion to reduce our CO2 the major energy islands bring green energy to the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124925	Thank you. No one else has any comments. And then it's sir. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211124958	Denmark must be a green forerunner country, that is what my colleagues in this Chamber say over and over again, or Denmark is finally a green forerunner country, as the government says when it has to praise itself for its achievements. But Denmark is not a green pioneering country. No matter how much we want it, and no matter how many times we try to conceive ourselves, Denmark is not a green forerunner country, yes, we are not actually nearby, not when it comes to the most crucial parameter, namely emissions of the greenhouse gases that destroy our nature, which torment our land, and who is currently threatening to create a planet that can only feed 1 billion people. Yes, if you look at emissions, Denmark is instead to find among some of the most climate-damaging countries in the world. Of course, Denmark should not be. Our ambition in the Free Greens is that Denmark should be a real green forerunner. We have a number of different ways of achieving this, and one of them we are discussing in the Chamber today. And that is why, on behalf of the Free Greens, I am presenting our proposal to create a Climate Act 2.0 that takes responsibility for Denmark's real greenhouse gas emissions, so that we do not just take responsibility for the section of our emissions covered by the Climate Act that we have already adopted in this parliamentary term. With a Climate Act 2.0, the idea is that we take responsibility for all the emissions that take place every day and are as harmful to the climate as those covered by our Climate Act, but which the political consensus tries to ignore. This concerns, among other things: on discharges from shipping, from air travel, from our major imports. Our global climate footprint is twice as high as our National Climate Footprint, the Chairman of the Climate Council has assessed, and of course we need to take this seriously, so we not only say that we are green, but actually it is also in action, and this requires us to take responsibility for all of our emissions and significantly reduce them immediately. But let me just take a step back. Because the truth is that today, no matter what the government says, Denmark is one of the most climate-destructive countries in the world. We are the EU's largest producer of oil. We produce more meat per head. people than any other country in the world, and we eat more meat per. citizen than you do in the vast majority of places in the world. We are with Bangladesh, where there are well over 100 million people, including the most cultivated country in the world. We also have some of the world's highest greenhouse gas emissions per year. citizens, we are significantly above our neighbouring countries, Germany and Sweden, and emit more than three times as many greenhouse gases as the average citizen of the world. You can't call that a green forerunner. With the Climate Act, we have set one of the most ambitious targets for climate action that the world has seen. That is a good thing, but as you know, targets do not do it alone. And, unfortunately, with what 701 researchers in the weekend newspapers have called the government's persistent climate change spiral, there is no indication that we are achieving the objective we have set. And there is nothing at all to suggest that we are meeting the UN climate panel's demand for immediate climate action of unprecedented magnitude at all levels of society if, as the government says it will, we want to limit the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. That is why we must always keep each other up to new demands for reductions, and that is what we in the Free Greens are doing with the proposal for a Climate Act 2.0: a necessary addition to the Climate Act that we already have, a natural next step if we want to have any hopes of being able to call ourselves a green pioneer country. The Prime Minister has several times stated that the climate crisis is, if not the biggest, so one of the greatest challenges we as humanity have faced. By the way, so did the Prime Minister who was before her. But why is it that Mrs Mette Frederiksen does not act accordingly? I think it is irresponsible, it is actually an unprecedented generational failure, and that is why I call on all parties in the Danish Parliament to act today and require the government to draw up a Climate Act 2.0. I know that there are plenty of challenges in making that supplement to the Climate Act. The debate has also shown this today: that it can be difficult, troublesome, difficult to determine and in many ways uncrossed country we are going to move out on. But is it not the fact that you take the lead and go where no one has been yet, that you show the way and that you dare to make a country a pioneer? I think it is. So let's get a Climate Act 2.0, and let's not stop there. Let us declare an emergency for the climate, as they have done in the parliaments of so many other countries. Let us halve meat production in agriculture, and I would like to see even more. Let us stop oil and gas extraction by 2030 at the latest. Let us ensure immediate and far-reaching reductions in our emissions. Let us give nature space to unfold freely many of the places where there is farming today. Let's close the big pig factories. Let us change our agriculture so that they produce green for people instead of producing feed for animals we can kill. Let us ensure that the price of products reflects the destruction they have caused to nature by introducing a CO2 Let us make fruit and vegetables cheaper and all the climate-destructive more expensive. Let us build with wood instead of with concrete where possible. Let us make public transport far, much cheaper, preferably totally free. Let's get the fossil cars out of the cities. Let us invest in bike paths and green breathing holes rather than in several highways and more parking spaces. Let's do all that, and let's do it quickly. This is how Denmark becomes a genuinely green pioneering country. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211125708	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one wanted to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed. I'm just gonna have to get a drink. Sir. Sikandar Siddique needs to clean up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211125731	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice. It's first, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, the rapporteur for the questioners, for a explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211125757	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the Minister for running today; we very much appreciate that. The case of operation minkafløning has been a case that has taken up a lot of time with many consultations and a lot of §20-questions in this Chamber. Each time it has been denied that the defence or preparedness has taken part in the killing of mink, and we are quite right to say something indignant about this, especially in view of the fact that it has since emerged that the preparedness has actually participated in the operation of mink killing. So the question for the question debate today is: what can the Minister say about the Minister's activities in connection with the involvement of the defence in the so-called operation mink killing and about the reasons for the defence's participation in the operation outside the infected zones? ■ Thank you very much. And then I have to remember to drink off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211125906	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. And it is now the Secretary of Defense for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211125917	Thank you for calling the question debate. When I run here today, it is with respect for the Danish Parliament, but it is also with respect for the Danish Parliament's decision to set up a committee of inquiry, and I will therefore reply with respect to the committee of inquiry. Let me start by stating that the defence staff have done a huge amount of work in this extraordinary situation, which has lasted almost one year. The defenders' staff, assisted by volunteers from the Home Guard, have made a strong and very important effort, and I would like to express my gratitude for that today; it has my greatest respect. At the same time, we must remember the mink farmers, who were exceptionally hard hit by the corona virus on their livelihoods. The situation with the risk of coronasmitte from mink was in every way an extraordinary situation. Having said that, let me state that it is perfectly normal for the defence to support civilian authorities in crisis situations at home. This applies, for example, to storms, floods, major rescue operations and the like. The defence's support is in accordance with Section 7 of the Defence Act. During the historic corona crisis that we are in now, both large and small tasks have been defended in support of civil authorities. This applies to everything from manning coronahotlines, support at testing centers to support by infection detection, just to mention some efforts with which the defense and Home Guard have supported other authorities here during the corona crisis and according to section 7 of the Defence Act. I believe that the enormous efforts made by employees and volunteers in the Ministry of Defence's area for almost a whole year deserve our greatest appreciation and thanks, and I hope that we all support this. In autumn 2020, the FDA supported their work with mink. This was done on the basis of Article 7 of the Defence Act. As I have said innumerable times, the defense has not been tasked with killing mink. The defence alone supported the Danish Food Authority with among other things. cleaning capacity and count of mink. The censuses took place in areas where no coronasmitte had been found in mink, in the so-called zone 3. Here was the legal basis, as I said, Paragraph 7 of the Defence Act. Reported by the Danish Food and Defence Agency, the censuses took place with the prior consent of the minkkeepers, and the purpose was to have an official basis in place for later compensation. Of course, this is important. As I have explained several times, the legal basis is and was in place. The defence did not have a mandate to use force, and the defence has not had the task of killing mink. So just to repeat: this was an extraordinary situation, and precisely because it was an exceptional situation, the defence was requested to support the FDA as a civil authority. The support was coordinated under the leadership of the National Operational Staff, and officials and officers worked efficiently and vigilantly to get support for the Danish Food Authority quickly in place. To conclude, therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to thank once again today the defence, the Home Guard and the preparedness, which have made a huge effort throughout this crisis. I hope the Danish Parliament will support that. Thanks go to the employees and volunteers in defence, home defense and preparedness, who since March have made an impressive effort, unselfish and with the only desire to take care of Denmark and the Danes. They deserve our thanks. I hope that today's debate will clear up various misunderstandings about defence support for the Food and Agriculture Authority. Those who have stood in the front line deserve that, and when they step in in the extraordinary situations, it is for all of us to create security and security. The health crisis shows what close cooperation there is between our civil authorities and the defence, and we must safeguard that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211130329	Thank you. One brief remark from the rapporteurs is now available, and Mr. Marcus Knuth requested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211130337	Thank you and thank the Minister for being here today. I would say that there is one thing I do not understand at all, namely that when we send a question to the Ministry of Defence, the Minister simply refuses to answer. And when we have repeatedly asked the Minister questions about the minkskandalen here in the Folketing, the Minister answers completely bypass, especially in relation to the things we then hear from the defence. So now I just want to ask the Minister a simple yes-no question: has the Minister ever spoken untrue in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211130406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211130407	No, I haven't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211130410	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211130413	Thank you. The Minister refers to the committee of inquiry which we have decided to set up, and there the parties of the Folketing have negotiated a mandate which must then be approved, but on which all parties in the Folketing agree, including the Minister's own party, and which does not include the role of defence. So why does the Minister refer to the investigating commission in this connection and is there any information that the Minister holds back on the basis of the investigation commission which will be set up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211130445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211130446	As I understand it, discussions continue on what the Folketing wants to examine in this context. And it is quite normal procedure that it has always been the case that when such work is carried out, i.e. when you are in the process of setting up search commissions, legal examinations and other things, it is good practice that there is no parallel process here in the Danish Parliament. This has been the case historically, and I think it is fair that this is the case here too. In addition, all the other areas in question, in other words all the other areas of the Council of Ministers, have received similar feedback. There are also questions from time to time, and the answer is given again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211130531	Thank you. There's no more short remarks in this round. If the minister wants to get ready for the next one, that's fine. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks, and the first rapporteur to speak is the rapporteur for the questions put by the honourable Member. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211130556	Thank you, and how nice it is to get up to a completely clean platform. We haven't killed mink, the defense hasn't killed mink. me on 9 December 2020. In the weeks before, we had stood here in the Assembly Hall with section 20 questions and discussed the reasonableness of deploying the military against Danish traders. Here, too, the Minister denied that the defence and preparedness had participated in the slaughter of an entire industry and their animals. I even think that the Minister used the phrase that the Conservatives are touring around with the story that the defense or preparedness has killed mink. Neither Marcus Knuth nor myself are touring anywhere. We are simply chasing goodness, we are chasing answers and we are chasing responsibility. At the same time, in her sometimes somewhat aggressive and cash tone, the Secretary of Defense said that she believes that the Conservative People's Party, with our questions, is helping to weaken confidence in the defence. And again and again she referred to the fact that she does not believe that the defense has committed criminal offences in connection with their actions in the mink case. We in the Conservative People's Party are always on the side of the soldiers. The defense is a matter of life for us Conservatives, and that's why we don't tour around with stories that we don't have any evidence of. By the way, we never do. Because we had evidence that defence and emergency personnel had killed mink, but apparently we are better informed than the Minister, which I personally doubt and hope for. On 18 December, the whole of Denmark became aware that the preparedness had killed mink. In an article on TV 2 on the basis of a facebook notice, conscript Melissa Guttesen describes how she has stood and put a living mink, several minks even, into a tiny tube and then put them in a killing trailer where they were gassed. Afterwards, she had to check if they were alive and then put them on the trailer and inject them with decontaminated fluid. So allow me to sum up: the Minister has repeatedly misled the Danish Parliament both in consultation and in this Chamber, and we have not been able to get an answer to the question which both I and my colleague Marcus Knuth have raised with the Minister a number of times. The Minister's claim that the defence has not participated in the killing of mink is in direct contradiction to the truth. Because it turns out that employees of the organization which the Minister is in charge of have participated in the killing of mink, and the Minister has expressed himself in direct contradiction with the truth to the legislature. It is deeply scandalous that a minister who can make far-reaching decisions about the security of the empire and the lives and ability of our soldiers either has no control over his ministerial area or has chosen to speak untruely to the Folketing. That is why we have this question debate today in which we are instructing the Minister to respond fully and comprehensively to the questions put to the Ministry both in writing and in consultation so that we can now bring the whole matter forward. With these words, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, I shall read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Minister of Defence has misled the Danish Parliament in the matter of defence participation in the so-called operation minkaflivning. The Secretary of Defense has repeatedly pointed out, in consultation, in matters in the Assembly Hall and in the media, that the Defence and Emergency Board have not killed mink. The Danish Parliament also notes that this is in direct contradiction with witness reports from the actual killing of all mink herds in Denmark. The Danish Parliament finds it critical that the Minister has not answered comprehensively and adequately, which has prevented the Danish Parliament from gaining insight into the role of defence and preparedness in the matter, including information on orders, legal documents and decision-making chain. Parliament instructs the Minister to rectify these matters immediately. In addition, the Danish Parliament is extremely puzzled by the attitude and appearance of the Minister for Defence in relation to questions put by Members of the House in this case concerning the involvement of the defence in the extermination of all Danish minks. • V 73).
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131033	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jan Johansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131039	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to hear the rapporteur's views on zone 1, zone 2 and zone 3. And who works in Zone 1, Zone 2 and Zone 3?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131055	After all, the defense has been out on these farms and visited these traders and has stood and said that they should start killing their animals. As far as the latter is concerned, it is the case that, from the point of view of preparedness, we have been out to kill these minks in, as far as I remember, zone 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131121	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131123	Thank you. I do not think the rapporteur replied to that. I'd like to know about Zone 1 and Zone 2 and Zone 3 and who's been operating in the different zones. That's very crucial, because they're running according to different paragraphs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131141	So it is with this paragraph that we are discussing today that this is the area outside the zones, that is. Zone 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131155	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Hey, there was just one at the last minute. Sorry, it's Bruno Jerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131201	I would like to know if the rapporteur would look at what kind of instruction cards our soldiers have brought with them in relation to what they should be doing. Is the rapporteur aware of the instruction cards they have been given?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131220	Yeah, it's this SOP card they got out. That's right, and we got it over with from the Ministry. Unfortunately, I do not have it on the platform today, but the legal basis has been published that they should first turn to the trader, the mink grower, and that, if necessary, they should use force. As far as I remember it said, they had to use force if he refused.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131252	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131253	It also explicitly says in the instruction card that it is not their job to kill mink. And it's kind of a very clear message. In other words, the soldiers have come into town with a clear message that it is not their job to kill mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131312	That is quite right: they have got away with it. The only problem is that it's been done anyway. And some people have a responsibility for this, that is to say this has happened, and the chief person responsible in this area is the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131327	Thank you. Then I do not see any more who have asked for a brief comment. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. And then it is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jan Johansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131353	Thank you. The defense is and remains an amazing institution in our society. They are unique in their work and their purpose. The defense makes sure to keep Denmark safe in peace and in wartime. It is precisely for this reason that, according to section 7 of the Defence Act, the defence law has also helped Danish authorities in the management of minkmutation by the government and the consequences of this. And we should be very happy about that. The defence here, together with a large number of other authorities, lifted a core task under great popular attention, and the infection situation would have come out of control if no action had been taken. There is nothing new in the fact that the defence also helps in exceptional situations, according to Section 7 of the Defence Act. The defence has some very special competences, which they among other things. helped in the months around autumn 2020. The defense hasn't been assigned to kill mink. The defence, on the other hand, can support the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority in their task of killing mink, which is provided for in section 7 of the Defence Act. The defense supported here by helping to clean people working in zones as well as counting mink. They did so in areas where no coronasmite was found in mink, i.e. in zone 3. In relation to that, I hope that with this debate we can put a great end to the speculation as to whether there was a legal basis for defence in relation to working or not, because that was quite clear. As far as the Emergency Board is concerned, both the task and the legal basis are different. The Emergency Management Authority has only worked in areas where the minks have been infected in zone 1. And in adjacent zones, called Zone 2, the legal basis must be found in Section 8 of the Emergency Response Act. We very much hope that with this debate we can put an end to these speculations about the legal basis for the division of tasks between the Defence and the Emergency Response Board, which has filled a lot here at Christiansborg and in the media. It is a mistake, and we should gather the whole parliament and back up the great task of defence and preparedness in the difficult times. Thank you for the floor, and I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption in emergency situations such as major rescue operations, storms, floods and health-related outbreaks of animal diseases can be used as support. The aid is granted in accordance with Article 7 of the Defence Act. The Danish Parliament would like to acknowledge that employees and volunteers in the Ministry of Defence's area are running for the safety and security of the Danes in crisis situations. • V 74)
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131740	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further examination. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131747	Thank you to the rapporteur. Can the rapporteur confirm that the Minister for Defence has repeatedly said in this Chamber that neither the defence nor the Emergency Response Board has killed mink, and that on 18 December there was a conscript, Melissa Guttesen, from the Emergency Response Board, who stood up and said that she had been involved in killing mink, where 34 minutes later an answer came from the Ministry of Defence, where they said that they had been wrong, because they had taken part in that anyway? Thus our good Secretary of Defense has spoken untruely here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131821	I can confirm that the Secretary of Defense has said that they were not committed to killing mink. And I can say another thing that comes from the real world: I myself have been out in the industry for 30 years, where I, for example, have been. worked at a shipyard. When there was a disaster it could be oil spill, it could be a fire or something we all threw the tool, and then of course we went out and helped make sure that the oil didn't go out into the water, for example, so there was a major disaster. That's the way it really is. It may be that we set up some rules, but if there is a mink, for example. A mink who has been released, I hope that they have been involved in catching that mink so that it did not escape and spread the infection. I think that is clearly the right thing to do, and that is how it is done in the real world. So one thing is what we say in square terms in here, another is what goes on out there when they are helped to get it, that the minks should be put to death, carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131930	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131932	Well, thank you for confirming that the Secretary of Defense has said that the defense and Emergency Services were not deployed to kill mink. Then there is a very simple question: who has told the truth?• Melissa Guttesen of the Emergency Board, who says she has killed mink, or the Secretary of Defense, who says it has the Emergency Board and the defense not? I mean, there's only one of those two that can be right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211131954	Thank you. I just wanted to say that I was trying to mention it from the real world, and that's the real world I'm talking about. Of course it may be that she might somehow, if a mink had escaped and it had escaped from those who had to put them in those boxes, picked it up and put it in the box instead of letting it run through her legs. I can't say anything about that, but I can just say how it is going on out there in the real world, and it is so that sometimes we help each other in a disaster situation, and this was a huge situation, and if there was a mink that had got loose, then I hope they haven't just let it run out into the wild world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132033	Thank you. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132034	Yes, thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur for just talking about the real world. There are a few of us who come from there, and I have to say that the rapporteur's background in the real world is something that I respect very, very high indeed in other contexts than the reason why we are here today. But unfortunately that does not change the fact that, at the conciliation meeting on 9 December 2020, the Minister for Defence said: we have not killed mink; the defence has not killed mink. That is what the question is about, and that is why we are standing here, in other words denying the fact that mink has been killed. Then the rapporteur acknowledges that it has been said that we have not killed mink from the defence side?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132115	Yes, I clearly acknowledge that the military had not been deployed to kill the mink. I clearly recognise that. And they haven't done that either, but of course there have been some situations where it could have happened that they have independently helped out there in some way. But it happens in disaster situations; it happens wherever there is some dangerous accident that we all help. And that's probably the kind of situation that's been around here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132142	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132144	Yes, I am not supposed to be able to say that, that is, what the individual situation has been here. All I know is that Melissa Guttesen has told me how she's taken mink and put them in a small pipe, into a trailer, gassed them, checked if they were alive, and poured them with decontamination fluid. So you've had an active choice in participating and you've got an order: take these minks and put them in the pipe and get them killed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132212	Yes, thank you. I can only answer by saying: I do not believe that anyone has given a conscious order to the girl here. I simply do not believe that. Because they have been told, as the rapporteur himself said, that they should not put the mink to death when they came out there. And is that in zone three we're talking about, or is that in zone one and two?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132233	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And the rapporteur remembered to clean himself, that is fine. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132249	Thank you for the floor. Paragraph 5 of the Ministerial Responsibility Act. (2) it appears that a minister may not give false or misleading information or, in the course of the proceedings of the Folketing, any information which is essential for the assessment of the case by the Tribunal. In a little other words, it means that a minister must reply correctly, comprehensively and fully to the questions put by the members of the Folketing. If a minister fails to live up to this, it will be completely impossible for the Folketing to fulfil its role of controlling the government. I do not believe that the Minister has fulfilled his responsibilities in this matter. Despite countless questions, I still know virtually nothing about the role of defence, preparedness and conscripts in one of the largest operations in which the defence and preparedness have participated on Danish soil in recent times. And what I know, I have not been told because the Minister has fulfilled his responsibilities. She has refused to answer virtually all questions about the details and extent of the operation from day one. Some of the very few concrete answers we have actually received have even proved incorrect. What I know is that I have had to read in the media, or by reading, for example, in the media. Conscriptions have come forward and have contradicted the Minister. The minister's act makes it completely impossible to have a meaningful debate in the Folketing on whether we can do something different some other time. Is our defense and preparedness, for example? properly equipped to cope with crises, pandemics and other tasks? Do our conscripts and employees have the right training and skills to cope with a similar situation another time? We have no idea, because from day one the Minister made a decision to cover up the matter instead of fulfilling his duty and informing the Folketing. I am also very surprised by the Minister's reply today, where she says that she will inform less because of the examining commission. I would say that, in fact, I think she almost went further today in revealing details of what the defence and preparedness have done in this matter than she has done in the past. I see no difference in the way the Minister acts before and after the investigation commission has been set up. So I think that again today we are in something that borders on misdirection. I think the Minister's act in this matter is a huge democratic problem, and if the government's support parties allow the minister's act to set a precedent, we might as well acknowledge that the role of the Folketing in controlling the government has actually been put out of effect. In that case, we can also conclude that the support parties operate with a massive double standard, depending on the minister concerned, and that will certainly not be beneficial to confidence in our democracy. To put those of you who are watching the screens today into the Minister's approach, I would like to give you an example. The Minister typically answers with a nonsensical standard answer to a specific question and then refers to this answer to a number of other questions, although it has nothing to do with the questions we have asked. For example: Mr. Alex Vanopslagh on 19 November six questions. The answer to them illustrates very well the way the Minister has also answered my and other members of the Folketing's many questions on this matter. Question 56, which was the first question, Mr. Alex Vanopslagh asked, was this: "Please send over a schematic overview of mink farms with crews where corona has not been detected, where defence personnel have been on official business over the last three months, and how specific contact has been provided? To that the Minister replied: "The defense has not killed mink. The defence alone has supported the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority's efforts against coronasmitte, among others. with counting and graduation view. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries has stated that the count of mink in zone 3 crews has been made by voluntary agreement of mink farmers to have their animals counted. I would also like to refer to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries for further information on this effort. In other words, the Minister replied with the same standard letter with which she replied to countless other questions, rather than actually answering the question. In the following five very specific questions concerning the role of the Home Guard and of the Home Guard, we are also merely referring to exactly the same answer that has nothing to do with the questions. That is to say, when the alert is asked, there is also just the answer that the defense has not killed mink. Of course, all questions cannot be answered one hundred percent. The Secretary of Defense doesn't even try. She doesn't even pretend to have tried to answer the questions. You simply feel ridiculous when you are treated in this way when you try to get to grips with a matter and live up to the role you have as a member of parliament towards the government. I hope that the result of the question today is that the Minister is changing his approach to the Folketing. Everything else is untenable, both for the defence and for our democracy. Thank you for the floor. I look forward, hopefully, to a good and constructive debate which leads us to treat all ministers equally, regardless of party colour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132755	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132759	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is fully aware of zones 1, 2 and 3 and what needs to be done within the various zones and who did so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132812	I can say this very clearly: I have not. We have repeatedly asked the Minister what the role of defence has been in the various zones. Is it the emergency response that's been taking place? Is that the defense? We haven't received any answers. We have received the standard letter over and over again, which I just read out. That is why we know virtually nothing other than that, such as. Conscripts have come forward and have told us because the Secretary of Defense has completely obscured the role of the defense in this. I don't know if you've done anything right or wrong. The fact is that I have no idea because the Secretary of Defense will not tell us anything at all, and I simply think it is in direct conflict with the law of ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132843	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132844	How, then, can the questioner stand up and make the accusations when you have not got in to where it has happened and who it has happened and why it has happened? I think it's something that's solved to come with. You just read something on Facebook or somewhere, and then it's based on it. I ask again: why does the rapporteur not have control of zones 1, 2 and 3?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132907-2	It is because I have put 20 questions to the Minister or something like that, had her called for consultations and I have not been able to get any answers to these questions. It's extravagance, it's delusional, and some of it's been totally wrong. That is why, like others, I have to look at Facebook, on television and elsewhere where I can see that the conscripts say something other than the minister. So the only reason I don't know anything about this case in detail is because we have a minister who won't tell you anything about it. I think this is directly contrary to the law of ministerial responsibility, and I really hope that there is a majority in favour of our text so that the Minister can get this right so that we can have a proper and informed debate on what has happened. I don't know how much has been right and wrong. I don't know if we've had the right skills. I have no idea, because the Minister will not answer questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132945	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211132946	Thank you. It's awkward that the Left doesn't know the difference between zones 1, 2 and 3, because I do. After all, whether we are in zones 1, 2 or 3 is quite crucial to what we must do and what we must not do. The conscript referred to is not conscriptive. Melissa, mentioned, is from the Emergency Board. I have been taught in my time as a defence rapporteur that it is certainly not the same as the defence. The Emergency Board has helped in what is called Zones 1 and 2. That seems to me to be a fairly important piece of information. I do not know what the rapporteur of the Left thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133037	I read out a specific question asking what the role of defence and preparedness has been in zone 3. The answer to that question is: We have helped in accordance with § 7. The defense hasn't killed mink. I know there's been a zone one and two and three. I just do not know what the defence has done in the various zones and why and what the legal basis has been, because the Minister has not answered that question. I have sat and examined all the questions put by the Danish Parliament to the Minister, transcripts of our consultation. She's not answering the questions. The Minister does not answer the questions, and I find it so difficult to understand that the SF and Enhedslisten cover up a minister who does exactly what you criticise when it is blue ministers who do it and with good reason, because a minister has to respond comprehensively and adequately. She's not answering the questions. We have no way of getting involved in this. It may be that she tells her support parties more, but it is an unfair way of treating the Folketing, and it is an unfair way of treating the defence that we cannot have an enlightened debate about what the defence is doing. It's totally unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133140	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133142	Now I am helping the rapporteur of the Left and giving him the information he lacks. It may happen to all of us that we do not have all the facts that flourish in the debate, but I know that the Minister has made it clear on several occasions what is the difference between zones 1, 2 and 3 and she has also made it clear who must what. So I would like to ask once again whether it changes the rapporteur's view of the situation, if I say to him that it is the Emergency Response Board that has operated in zones 1 and 2 to which the Minister refers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133217-2	I would like the rapporteur to point out the answers in which the Minister has explained what has been done in the various areas of defence and preparedness. I've asked directly about it, and it's been asked directly about it lots of times, and there's the answer with the same standard letter that I've read to you every time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133234	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133237	I would just like to know whether the rapporteur is aware that the preparedness has some other rights or tasks in relation to this and that, in this way, they should be put to death. It was thus part of their task that they should do so, in contrast to the defence, which, of course, had the instructions which we referred to earlier. So I just want to know if the rapporteur is aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133310-2	I know that there is a difference between the tasks to be undertaken and the tasks to be undertaken in different zones. The problem is that when you have asked what the specific legal basis was and what the preparedness and defence were doing, you have not been able to get an answer. Therefore, I just think that if we are to have an independent civil service, we will have to have a minister who answers the questions when we ask such questions. I find it so strange that Enhedslisten and SF are today defending that we cannot get answers to our questions. That is quite, quite basic questions about what the defense has done where, and we cannot get an answer to that. We get the same standard answer. Well, you can see such a whole page of questions, detailed questions, and it is referred to the same nonanswer over and over again. I think it is crazy if you support this being the new standard, because it is something else that has been heard from you here recently in the Assembly Hall, in relation to how you expect ministers to act. Now you go in and defend an approach that is much, much worse in my eyes than what we have seen in the past. I think it's so weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133413	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133414	However, what I asked the rapporteur about was the fact that we know that the preparedness had a different instruction, if you like, is something that has an impact on the rapporteur's position on what he is presenting or whether it does not matter at all. In other words, when we are informed that it was the emergency response in zones 1 and 2 and that the emergency response had the opportunity to take part in putting an end to mine, the rapporteur is not at all concerned that the rapporteur has actually started out with a completely wrong speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133455	What I am dealing with in the speech I made is that I have heard through the media what the defence and preparedness have done in different zones. I have not been able to get the Minister to answer that question. That is what I am criticising today in connection with this speech. After all, I have to go out myself and verify that I have to do my own digging, and I have to talk to journalists who have access to documents. What my business is today is, as we have written in the text of the adoption, asking the Minister to have a look at the questions we have asked many of, once again and then actually start answering some of those questions. She shouldn't incriminate herself, but basic things about facts, what is up and down in this, what our conscripts have actually done, and what our defenses and preparedness have done, we have a right as a Parliament to get an answer to. You gotta agree with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133541	Thank you. Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133543	Thank you so much. I must admit, I think, that in the time I have been a member of the Folketing, this is a very, very harsh accusation against a minister. I understand from the rapporteur of the Left that he has put himself very well into questions/answers from the Minister, and I even understand that the rapporteur has been on social media to find extra knowledge. Then I would just like to say to the rapporteur of the Left now, when he tells the Danish Parliament that he is really well involved in the matter: on 18 December 2020 Mr. Marcus Knuth the Minister for Defence one question; that is the question called Question 101. On December 23rd, a few days later, the Secretary of Defense will give an answer. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left, who is so well aware of the matter: can the rapporteur of the Left not repeat what the Minister for Defence is replying to Mr. Marcus Knuth on December 23, 2020? I have an expectation of this with the very strong accusations made by the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133648	So, question 101 is that an oral question in the Parliamentary Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133703	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133704	Now the rapporteur of the Left tells us that he is well involved in the matter, so I can tell you that this is a written question that can be found on the Danish Parliament's website. That is what Question 101 is called. There's an answer from the Secretary of Defense to Mr. Kim. Marcus Knuth on 23 December 2020. So I would like the questioner to explain what the Minister for Defence has replied to Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133725	I'm gonna have to take a look at this. I can see, then, that you are starting to answer something other than you have answered questions in the past. The answer is that the Emergency Response Authority has only been deployed to support areas of infected mink herds or the adjacent risk zones. But that does not mean that the Minister will answer it on 23 October when she has not answered up to 50 questions before she has not asked questions, nor does she specifically answer to what extent and how they have helped.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133810	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. But the second question was used to elaborate on the first question, so there are no more questions. Very well, then the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has been prepared. Mrs. Lise Bech, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211133844	Thank you. It's like there's still skeletons coming out of the closet in this mink scandal. And now we know it too, even though the Prime Minister and many other Social Democrats have repeatedly used it in the name of public health. I would just like to stress that public health is of course also the most important thing for the Danish People's Party. But we now know that the horror scenario that the Prime Minister came up with on 4 November about cluster-5-mutation as the main argument for killing all mink and putting North Jutland under the toughest restrictions Denmark had ever seen was contradicted by both independent experts and the Danish Medicines Agency a few days later. The Danish Medicines Agency, Denmark's leading experts on vaccines, gave their assessment on 9 November that the mutation did not appear at a meeting in the NOST on 12 November that the Danish Health Authority stated that there was no possible Wuhan II outbreak, just as SSI informed at the same meeting that the WHO had also reported that the situation in Denmark was not as serious as first reported in Denmark. I come from North Jutland myself, so I know a little about what happened in North Jutland. At the same time, in November and December, we had plenty of consultation with several ministers, including with the Minister for Defence, and we received a lot of non-answers from almost all ministers. That is why I had hoped that today we could get clear answers from the Minister for Defence to the questions that today's question is about. But the Minister is now referring to the examining commission. However, the question today was actually in relation to the Minister's activities in connection with the involvement of the defence in operation was mink killing on the reasons for the defence's participation in the operation outside the infected zones. The minister has said a lot, but I don't think we're getting that much smarter. The investigation commission will be referred to. The minister spends a lot of time thanking the defense staff for making a lot of effort while the minkskandal was rolling. And thank you for that, we all thank the defense staff for their efforts. I do not think anyone disagrees that we should thank them, but that is just not what this matter is about. It is about the role of the Minister in the whole matter. In consultation and on oral and written questions and in the media, the Minister of Defence has repeated several times that the defense has not struck down mink, while in an open letter, conscripts in the Danish Emergency Agency contradict the defence minister's claim, a letter that the conscripts were forced to publish because the Secretary of Defense repeatedly claimed that the defence had not broken down. It is inconceivable if the Minister of Defence of the country had no knowledge of this. There's a lot of things in this mink scandal we haven't had an answer to. Now the former rapporteur referred to all the questions that we have all asked in this matter. For example: Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party on 11 December Question 96 with 25 good questions from a to y. The Minister's reply was a reference to the answer to question 101, which was mentioned earlier. Moreover, in the answers to question 101, reference is made to the answer to question 107 and that is not the answer to the 25 questions. So, in addition to some answers to today's question to the Minister for Defence, I would like an answer as to whether it is not difficult to keep avoiding answering questions. The rest of us can guess why this is so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134306	Thank you. There are just a few brief comments, first from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134311	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for the great commitment. I feel that the Danish People's Party is at least as outraged about this whole scandal as we are. Can the rapporteur confirm that the Minister has repeatedly said that the defence and emergency services have not killed mink, but that it then emerged on 18 December from not just a conscript but in a letter from, I think, 23 conscripts. In other words, we have the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party who says: 'Well, it could be if one mink got away.' This happened systematically! Can the rapporteur confirm this and thus confirm that the Minister has spoken untruely here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134348	That can be confirmed. I've had very close contact with many mink growers throughout this scandal, and it's filled a lot. And that is why it is unbelievable to think that the country's Secretary of Defense has not been aware of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134406	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134407	Does the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party think that Denmark is served by a defence minister acting in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134415	At any rate, I think that the country's Minister for Defence is about to get out of the holes and give some answers to some of the many hundred questions we have all had.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134431	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134433	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether she is aware of the difference between the Emergency Response Board and the defence, in other words, of their roles. It sounds to me as if there is a confusion between the two roles in the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134458	The rapporteur is aware of the differences, but the Minister for Defence is also responsible for the Emergency Response Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134507	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134509	But is the rapporteur also aware that the Emergency Response Board actually has the authority to kill mink?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134520	What this is about today and I know that the minister is running around trying to derail the debate is that the minister has said in several consultations that there has not been a mink killed, and that was there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134539	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134604	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Conservatives for having called this debate, because this gives me the opportunity to express my very great appreciation and thanks to both the Defence and Emergency Board for their legal assistance to, among others. The Food Authority and in other ways during the corona crisis. After all, the role of the defence is to protect Denmark, and minkmutation is an enemy that threatens our public health and our health. That is why it is absolutely essential that we have stepped in in this situation. I think the Minister is very clearly saying that no one has been sent to the city to kill mink that they were not allowed to put to death. I also think that it is now clear in the debate that there are some small nuances, in relation to which zones we are talking about and what we must do in the different zones, which may well bear to get a little further up on the grouse of gentlemen over in the bourgeois bloc. But perhaps that is why we have this debate today. Because then we can help with the relevant information. By the way, while we have been discussing here, I have been taught by some people who sit and watch that you are conscripted when you are on the Emergency Board. I'm so sorry. It is true that you are conscripted when you are on the Emergency Board, but fortunately it does not change my point, which is that the Emergency Board has only helped in zone 1 and zone 2, and that there is a difference between what they have done and what the defense has done and that there was a full legal basis for it. In SF we think that this mink management by the government might have been prettier as far as the process is concerned, and we think that there are parts of it that have been very problematic. That is why we also note that the investigating commission is now working so that we can look at what it comes to in the end. But I have to say straight away that this debate has been given what it can draw. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134842	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134844	First of all, thank you to the SF for offering to solve some of these questions, because I still have a lot of people gone. One of them goes on: The Secretary of Defense says that neither the defense nor the Emergency Department have helped to kill mink. Then we have the Social Democrat rapporteur who says that it has happened in a few cases when a mink was getting away. Then we have the 23 conscripts from the same unit in the Emergency Board, who recognizes in a letter that they have killed mink. Then there are even more conscripts from the Emergency Board who stand out and say that it happened completely systematically. So who's right? The Secretary of Defense, the Social Democratic rapporteur, or the conscripts of the Emergency Board?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211134927	Well, actually, I don't know who's right. That is why we have set up a committee of inquiry, so it will be exciting to see. However, I note that the things that Conservatives come to the table with the accusations that are being made are actually quite appropriate to be contradicted by the Minister. Well, there's something called zone 1, zone 2 and zone 3, that's a difference between what the Emergency Board can do and what the defense has to do. The defence has clearly been told that they have not been sent to the city to kill mink, and the examples given by the Conservatives relate to a conscript from the Emergency Response Board. I do not know whether that would give rise to any consideration by Mr. Marcus Knuth, but it certainly does with me, and that is why I think that, with that information in mind, we should put a little cold water in our blood and hear what the Review Board says.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135025	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135026	I do not think that when a minister speaks untruely, he should beat cold water in the blood. I would now like to ask the rapporteur a very simple question. The Secretary of Defense has said over and over again that the Defense and Emergency Board have not killed mink. Really?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135043	The rapporteur asked about this just now, and I replied that I do not know. We've set up a search commission to answer these things. However, I note that the Minister says that the Emergency Agency and the defence have different things, they must, that in the zones set up there are different conditions and that different things must be done within the different zones. The case specifically raised by Conservatives concerns the Emergency Response Board in zone 1 and zone 2, where nothing illegal has happened if it is true.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135115	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135117	I think the SF should be very careful in this matter. We have just had a case in which the SF has struck a lot that it is important that ministers speak the truth and that they speak well. Now we have a case in which the Minister himself has admitted that she has said something wrong to the Danish Parliament, and there you will not even criticise the Minister's behaviour. I would like to ask: does the SF think that in this matter the Minister has answered comprehensively and adequately and that one can expect from a minister in relation to telling the truth in all the questions we have put to this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135152	Now I have not read all the questions that Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, or whoever the Left has asked the questions, has asked. However, I have at least read the question referred to 101 where it is very clear what has happened in zone 1 and zone 2 and that it is the Emergency Management Authority that it deals with. Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson then not read, I could listen to everything. I think that was actually quite important information, and I can also understand it from Mr Beazley's point of view. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, that nothing else has really appeared anywhere else, so I would suggest Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson that he reads that answer, because he might be able to use it for something.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135228	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135229	I would like to ask the rapporteur: now that the answers have been so good, will the rapporteur tell me how big the operation has been? How many soldiers employed in the defense have been involved in this operation, and how many farms have they visited? It just has to be about that if there's been such good information about what the role of defence and preparedness has been in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135253	Sir, I'm afraid so. Christoffer Aagaard Melson really asks the Minister. I'm not a civil servant. I'm standing here on behalf of the SF. I'm not an encyclopedia. So, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson must ask his questions to the relevant person. I can only say that we have received the answers that we should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135312	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135314	Thank you very much and thank you very much to the SF rapporteur for recognising Conservatives' question in this matter. This case isn't about zones 1, 2 and 3 or about preparedness and defense. This case is about whether the minister has told the Danish Parliament: Defence and preparedness have not killed mink. It has since come to light that they have. So the question in this case is whether it's okay that there's been a lie to the Folketing. Will the SF's rapporteur just try to say yes in one word, it's okay, or no, it's not okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135356-2	It's never okay to lie to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135404	Well, then we got it settled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135411	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. We need to get a little spit on it, even though there has been some progress, but for the sake of good order, before the Radical Left rapporteur comes to the floor. And this is sir. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135431	Wow, a discussion to get in to. I must be honest and say that I do not think this is the most promising atmosphere or debate I have had the opportunity to take part in here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I also ask myself whether this is how we are going to deal with this, which has had so many unfortunate consequences for people who had to give up their profession and kill their animals, and the many mainly young people who have done a really difficult job, as I know we are all in here, each and every one of us is deeply grateful that they have done as professionally and handsomely as they have. Our position is that we have now set up a committee of inquiry, and we are pleased about that. We ourselves have played an active role in reducing it. We think that this is the right and dignified way to get some independent people to look into it and not primarily to point their fingers if mistakes had been made in the heat of the fight. There may well have been but also to learn from it and to move on. That is why we do not have much to add to it. We have been co-signators of a letter to the Minister because some of the questions that we have, we really think that the Minister could answer and perhaps even think that the Minister would stand better by answering than by not doing so. In the Ministry it has been thought that because there is a committee of inquiry and perhaps also a lawyer's investigation on the way, you do not want to answer it. It's the Minister's choice. But we may well think that we could answer a little more questions, but it is not because we have any real suspicion that there have been any illegal acts here or that the Minister has done something other than what she has told the Folketing in bad faith. About this very specific dispute about what the minister has said about zones 1, 2 and 3 and that the defense operated in zone 3, if I understand correctly, and the preparedness in zone 2 and the preparedness has helped to kill mink, as I understand it, and not later on I have, I must honestly admit, a little lost track of what is here and what is mixed together etc. However, I have no reason to doubt that both the Minister and the system have done everything they could in their best interests, and if mistakes have been made, we will find out, and we shall learn from it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135700	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135702	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. I think it is a pity that the Radical Left seems to have changed a little, because back in December, in consultation with the Minister for Defence, the Radical Left was much more demanding in terms of answers and much more critical in terms of whether the Minister had spoken untruely. Since then it has come to light that the Minister has said that the defence and emergency services authorities have not killed mink, but that it has happened completely systematically, not just once with a single mink who has tried to run away, as Mr. Jan Johansen has said, but it has happened systematically, and thus the Minister has spoken untruely in the Folketing. And here we are not talking about a small mistake; we are talking about a minister who has spoken untruely in the Folketing. And Mr. Martin Lidegaard knows, as he has been Secretary of State for several years, how serious it is. Is that something that the Radical Left can accept?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135750-2	But, of course, if that proves to be the case, it is serious. Like the SF's rapporteur, I am not an encyclopedia on this either, and that is not my job either. However, as I understand it, it is of course about the fact that the preparedness in zones 1 and 2 has been involved in the killing, and what the Minister said was about zone 3, where the defence has been present. That is how I have understood it, and I certainly should not say that I am a witness of truth here, but that is my understanding of it, and then we must wait for an independent investigation into it, I think, and perhaps even a quick examination of the law. What my colleagues have said before we set up a committee of inquiry and everything else, I dare not stand up for. But it is quite true that both I and the Radical Left want every piece turned around in this because we want to learn from it, and because of course we recognise that mistakes can be made and probably have also been made along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135846	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135847	But what the rapporteur says is simply not right. The minister has said verbatim that the defense and Emergency Board have not killed mink. The minister was not specific about zones and one and the other. It has been running in the evening news at the end of December; it has been written about in B.T. So, all the Danish newspapers in the world have shown that the minister has said that mink was not killed, and then the conscripts stood up and said that they did. It can't be any clearer than that. It doesn't take a search commission to get that part under control. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135920	If sir... Marcus Knuth is right in that statement, it is of course regrettable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135927	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211135930	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have just one example in relation to what the rapporteur thinks about the way to respond. In question 61, Alex Vanopslagh asks: "Please send a schematic overview of mink farms with crews where corona has not been detected, where emergency personnel have been in contact on official business over the last three months, and how specific contact has been provided? As usual, the minister responds with his copy-paste reply by simply writing: "The defense has not killed mink. The defence has only supported the Danish Food Authority's action against coronasmitte from mink on the basis of Section 7 of the Defence Act, including among others. with counting and graduation view. Does the rapporteur think that this is a proper way of answering Parliament when you just reply with the same copy-paste answer, no matter what you ask, even when you ask about the preparedness, where you say: the defence has not killed mink? That is wrong, and that is not the answer to the question. Will the rapporteur, if not all else, help to say that ministers must speak the truth and they must answer questions, if only so forward-looking, if we are to be a little constructive?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140033-2	Well, it's very hard to think anything other than a minister telling the truth and answering questions from the Folketing. I think we can all agree on this quickly. And then there can clearly be different perceptions of when you do it and when you don't. But I guess it's true that the defense hasn't killed mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140052	Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140052-2	Yeah, it's just weird that she answers it when you ask what the role of preparedness has been. Well, that's what's so weird. But I am delighted, and I am counting on the support of the rapporteur, that we will have the Minister answer the questions which are at least not covered by the committee of inquiry and which the Minister has not replied to when we re-submit them after this debate today. Then we will get a little further in order to get an informed debate about what has happened and what we can do better, and to know whether our defenses and preparedness are properly equipped for this kind of operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140126	In other words, I understand that there is a debate going on about whether to launch a proper legal investigation to clarify these issues; a debate that our good colleagues have in another forum. We are looking at it in a fresh and impartial way, and if there are grounds for believing that something has happened that should not have happened, then of course we must have it examined in depth. And, of course, the questions we have must be answered through the Folketing and the parliamentary committee, by a lawyer's examination or by both.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140154	Thank you. There is just one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140201	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that I have followed the whole situation around mink at several different levels, and I am so sorry that a rapporteur for a party courting the government, in this Chamber, claims that the government is just making copy-paste answers. Well, that's not the impression I have when I read the incredibly many answers that have gone to the Folketing. So I'd really like to hear Mr. Martin Lidegaard's assessment of this, because I actually see the rapporteur's speech as Mr. Martin Lidegaard held as incredibly serious. So I just want to hear: is the radical rapporteur of the same opinion, i.e. that it is just copy-paste answers that the Folketing has received?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140239	There have been some answers, as I remember it just now, and it is a shot from the hip that has been fairly similar, but there have certainly also been other answers and greater differentiation than one answer, certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140248	There are no further brief comments to the radical rapporteur, which is why we move on to the next rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. Sir. Bruno Jerup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140306	One might say that this is perhaps a boring matter with the whole development that has been around mink and killing mink. Although Enhedslisten has supported the process in this way, it cannot be said that it has been a very pretty course. The artistic design may not be like that. But that does not change the fact that we have supported it and that we thought it was the right thing to do, and we also think that it has been correct and good that in this context we have also been able to use the defence to support this task, which was of course a major task and which required a large organisation and which it also required a great deal of manpower in order to be able to carry out in a short space of time. So we support the fact that this has happened, and we fully agree that the defence in relation to section 7 of the Defence Act has the opportunity to contribute to such crisis or disaster situations; we fully agree with that. We may have such a rather critical approach to using the defence in time and prematurely for tasks, especially if it is the case that these are tasks that could actually be solved with ordinary staff or staff forces. In other words, the use of defence as a cheap labour force in various situations is at least critical of us. But here we think it was quite appropriate. I also note that in the Minister's speech here today, what the Minister is dealing with is the role of the defence and that the authority that the defence had was that they should support the FDA, but that they should not help with the concrete killing of mink. And, as has been mentioned here today, we have not been given examples that this is actually what has happened. We have heard stories that someone from the preparedness has killed mink, but it is also in accordance with the mandate or instructions of the Emergency Board that they could be involved in that. There is nothing in relation to the question that has been asked, i.e. F 31, which is about preparedness. It is about defence, about the role of defence in the killing of mink, and it must be said, on the premise that the questioners have put, namely the role of defence in the killing of mink, that there is no evidence to suggest that the defence has done so. Then there is the claim that has been made. If it is true that the defence has done so anyway, without our knowledge and that of the Minister, we have a scandal in the defence sector, and I do not know if anyone would want to roll it up right now. But it is quite another question if it is the case that, contrary to the instructions given to them by the defence, they have done so anyway, that is, if that is the case. But we do not have any evidence of this, and we do not have any knowledge of it, so it must, as it were, become a matter. It may be rolled out if it is the case that we have a lawyer's examination; I don't know. There's sometimes things happen in this world that don't get visible at first, but come out at a later time. We are not opposed to this. We are, in fact, very pleased that we are examining these things and also examining what has actually happened, and therefore we are looking forward to something there. So just to take that in advance, there is the question of whether the Minister should answer questions. I might as well take that in advance, because I'm gonna be asked that in a minute. There is the answer: yes, the Minister must. Of course, the Minister must answer the questions put by the Danish Parliament and put by the committee. I have tried it myself: not just to this Minister of Defence, but to a former Minister of Defence I asked a number of questions a few years ago, who also just got such a noisy answer, maybe, some will say, and where it was so that you just answered blah and talked about. So to the problem of Ministers not answering questions, I would say that they must do so, but it is certainly not something that is unknown that sometimes ministers are not as clear as we would like from the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140828	There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140831	One would think that Enhedslisten could read my thoughts, because that is exactly what I intended to ask the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. After all, it is Parliament's role to exercise control over government ministers, but when the Minister of Defence simply refuses to answer the many written questions we have sent over, we cannot exercise the function that we have here in the Folketing. So when the rapporteur says that the Minister must of course answer questions and does not do so, what will the Enhedslisten do about it? Right now we can read in B.T. that distrust of the Secretary of Defense is growing. Why does the Enhedslisten not lose confidence in the Secretary of Defense if it is the case that the Secretary of Defense continues to refuse to answer questions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140912	Enhedslisten has no mistrust of the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140918	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140919	Then it makes absolutely no sense that Enhedslisten stands on the platform and says: The minister must answer questions, but after all, Enhedslisten will do nothing. The Enhedslisten has power in his hands. Enhedslisten has enough mandates to go to the Prime Minister and say: we want a defence minister who answers our questions. So why does Enhedslisten do absolutely nothing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211140943	Firstly, I do not think it is right to say that the Minister for Defence has not answered questions, but it is true that some of the questions put do not think she has answered adequately or adequately enough the questions that have been asked. However, these are different assessments, and I can only repeat that we believe that the Minister for Defence should answer the questions asked by Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141009	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141011	It may be that I have been overjoyed because I was uplifted to hear that Enhedslisten also thinks that ministers should actually answer questions and that they should answer questions truthfully and that they should answer questions adequately, because otherwise we will not be able to fulfil our role. Then I would like to know whether the Enhedslisten will at least be involved in expressing criticism of the Minister, so that if nothing else the Minister understands the message: that now she will have to come home and then get the answer to some of these questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141040	I would like to repeat that I believe that the Minister should answer the questions that are being asked. So if it is the case that the questioners say that I have expressed criticism, then one can use the wording that I think it is questionable that there is no answer to the questions that are being asked; that is it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141101	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141102	Thank you. This is, of course, also a matter that we can raise in the Defence Committee, but in view of the way in which Enhedslisten treats the Minister a little with velvet gloves in this matter, the rapporteur seems to be able to say with honesty that Enhedslisten measures ministers they themselves support, and for example. blue ministers by the same standard?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141133	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141156	Thank you. On 4 November 2020, the Prime Minister ordered the killing of all minks in Denmark. It was an illegal order, a violation of the Constitution, or as it appears to be in Nudanian: There was a home challenge. I remember well when I was informed by the former Minister for Food two hours before the press conference where the order was given. It was shocking, and it was sad. I was called on the following Sunday by the former Minister for Food and asked for the support of New Citizens for urgent legislation to legalise the death of mink. He didn't get it, and there was no support for urgent legislation. Yet the killings were not suspended. It's incomprehensible. The Defense and Emergency Board participated in the action. It was produced as if they did not participate in the actual killing of mink. It turned out later that it wasn't true. Only when conscripts stood up and told that they had been involved in killing mink was the explanation changed. It raises several questions: how could the defense assist an action that was basically illegal? The Minister has repeatedly told us that the defense had a legal right to take part in the action. But why did it not at least stop when it was clear to everyone that there was no legal basis for knocking down every mink? How could the Secretary of Defense avoid being up-to-date and aware of the Agency's participation in the killing of mink when the case is so historic? One would think that the Minister would be extremely attentive to what was going on. The case had great attention, and the killing of mink is unparalleled in Danish history. It is therefore also important to clarify what the Minister knew when in the process. In a case like this, we must get everything on the table. It is unacceptable that you cannot be trusted that the information provided by the Minister to the Folketing is correct. We must always be able to rely on a minister's explanations so that the Minister can explain it to the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141407	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the new citizen. And I do not see that there are any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, so the next person to speak is the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141423	Thank you for the debate here today. What I think is most clear is that a lot of people are messing up a lot of things in this debate. The question debate is about the role of defence in relation to mink. I have answered this very clearly in the past, in many ways, and I am happy to do so again: the defence has not had the task of killing mink, and the defence has been based on section 7 of the Defence Act in relation to the support they have given, among other things. a count of mink, which has meant that you have been able to obtain compensation here afterwards. It is clear that if it is, as Mr. Bruno Jerup also said that someone has violated the order, violated the instructions given to them, that they have no basis for killing mink, or that, for example, they have used force, as it is also very clear, very clearly that they do not have the power to do so, so we have a completely different case. And then it is clear that if there are examples of this, I would very much like to hear about it. If anyone has any examples that this has happened against the order given, I would like to hear about it, because we will of course have to look into it. That is not my impression, and I would just like to repeat that I have huge respect for the work that has been done out there. There's been a lot of work going on. There has been a really, really great and commendable effort on the part of the Danes' public health, and I should like to thank them for this. That's what I choose to do. I myself have not heard of any examples of the defence having killed mink, but if there are examples of it, I would like to hear about it. Then this is where some other things get into the debate here, namely zones 1 and 2, i.e. where there were outbreaks of infection, and where the Emergency Response Agency is complying with the Emergency Response Act since spring, i.e. independently of the whole discussion about killing mink in general, has supported the authorities. Moreover, this is something they do quite often when there are these types of outbreaks of infection, and at the moment they also help with bird flu, or at least they have done so over the last few weeks. So when it comes to questions about the Emergency Board, we're over in some other zones. This is Zones 1 and 2, where there is no discussion of the legal basis at all. There has been a legal home all along, and the Emergency Agency has been helping the food authorities since spring, so long before this famous press conference was held. It is clear that when conscripts from the Emergency Board appear and interfere with the discussion about the defence and the tasks that have been solved in zone 3, it gives a really unfortunate mix-up of things. Therefore, I just want to make it absolutely clear here that the Emergency Agency has operated in Zones 1 and 2 and that there has always been a legal basis to help kill mink. Where it is about zone 3, it is the defence that has operated and they have not had the task of killing mink, and I have not yet heard of examples of this happening. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141754	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141756	Thank you, Minister. The Minister has categorically stated, as in a categorically stated here in the Parliamentary Chamber, that the defense and Emergency Board have not killed mink, after which conscripts from the Emergency Board went forward and said that this has happened systematically. Has the Minister spoken the truth here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141819	Yeah, I've been telling the truth. It is true that the Emergency Agency has been working in zone 1 and zone 2 and that they cannot deny that mink has been taken out, but that it has been done with full legal basis. It is, of course, a correction that I have from the Emergency Agency, and I feel that the people who have worked hard since the spring of last year and who make such a correction, I have no reason to criticise. You have regretted that correction, and that is quite fair. This does not alter the discussion about legal bases or not, and that is the starting point for the whole debate on mink. The Danish Emergency Agency has only operated in zones 1 and 2, where there have been legal bases all the time and since spring. That's what's left in time. There have also been examples that the Danish Emergency Agency has been inside to help with outbreaks of infection, and there they have also had legal bases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141925	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141926	After all, the Minister says two very different things. The minister says the Emergency Board has killed mink. But then let us rewind the time for consultation and the many questions in this Chamber, where the Minister repeated again and again: the Defence and Emergency Board has not killed mink. Was that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211141946	I have always given the very clear information I have to the Folketing. What has been asked is whether there has been illegal killing of mink. That is what consultation is about, and what the question has been about, and therefore zone 3: illegal killing of mink. And no, the Emergency Board has not participated in the illegal killing of mink. I would like to repeat that. On the other hand, I would also like to thank them again very, very much for the strong, strong work they have done in zone 1 and zone 2, i.e. where there was infected mink. They've been delivering that work since the spring of last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142021	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142023	I have a specific question for the Minister. I would like to repeat that it is the same answer that is given to all questions. But for example... asks Mr. Alex Vanopslagh: Please provide the Minister with a schematic overview of mink farms with herds where corona has not been detected and where personnel from the emergency services have been in contact on official business over the last three months and how this specific contact has been arranged. Then the Minister replies: The defense has not killed mink. The defence has only supported the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority's efforts against coronasmitte from mink on the basis of section 7 of the Defence Act, including counting and graduation view. Does the Minister think that this is a good example of responding comprehensively and fully to the Folketing and that one responds correctly and not misleadingly to the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142113-2	What I have seen has been the approach to these questions has been that illegal acts had taken place, in other words that the defence had done something that they were not allowed to do, and that is what has been the basis for the answer. If the questioner does not think the answer is good enough, then the questioner is free to ask. But there is the answer to the best of intentions, and I think that when the Folketing has decided what kind of investigation is to take place, of the role of the defence, I understand that the Left does not want a proper legal investigation into the role of the defence. It is quite reasonable that further questions can be asked and also answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142154	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142155	I should like to make this clear: does the Minister think that it is okay to answer misleadingly and not comprehensively and not comprehensively, because one suspects what people are going to use a completely factual question for? I find that quite shocking if it is true.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142209	I guess that's not a misleading answer. I do not think that can be concluded. It is true that the defense has not been responsible for killing mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142219	Thank you. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142221	Thank you very much. I shall be brief, because the Minister and I will be moving on to a much more uplifting matter in a moment. That is a very, very short question. I'm asking the question that we've been asking from right up here as §20-question: Did the defense or preparedness kill mink?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142236-2	There has been no illegal killing of mink. That is what has been asked. There has been no illegal killing of mink, that is, without legal basis. The emergency unit has operated in Zones 1 and 2. There has been a legal basis for killing mink, and this is what the Danish Emergency Agency has subsequently come and has informed may have happened in cases actually since spring. The defense has not participated in the killing of mink. That is still what the Defence Command informs me, and there are no examples of them going against the order they have been given.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142310	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I have said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice. I will look around the Chamber for the minister on the next proposal. I think we're gonna have to postpone the meeting. Yeah, we're postponing the meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142707	The sitting shall resume. The debate is open, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142729	Thank you so much. Before we start, I have an admission to the Chamber, and that is that when I was working out this rapporteur's speech, I was wondering whether there is nothing in this draft law that could give rise to a little funny line or a humorous remark, and I just have to say that it is not there. It is technology when it is most technical, and it is simply a question of implementing changes to the release directive as a result of the new transparency regulation. This is what I would call a small and technical legislative proposal that updates the Technology Act on two points: firstly, it is proposed that communication between companies and public authorities be digitised and simplified, so companies need to use specific digital data formats when applying for authorisation to release GMOs. Secondly, what information can be considered confidential when applying for the release of GMOs is changed. The change will, in principle, result in information being published immediately after notification, with the exception of a list of information which may be confidential. It is important that we have openness on the GMO area. So there is at least from here, if I may say so, confidence in the risk assessments. In fact, with the draft law, I consider that more openness and clarity are being created on the GMO areas as to when information is confidential or not, while at the same time certain digital data formats are being required to be used in applications for authorisations for the release of GMOs. It may, of course, be that a little bit has been hidden in these very technical details, and I am, as always, very open to discussing any details relating to a committee procedure, but as I read the draft law as tabled here, this is something that the Socialist Parliamentary Group can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211142959	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143002	Thank you. I am glad to hear that the Socialist rapporteur can also support this draft law, which we fully agree with, since that is not the way to say it in this way. But it is also fine that this is mostly of a technical nature. Then it could also be good enough just to round with each other that it is so good in the sense that you have to have clarified things well and thoroughly when you get to the individual cases. So what could be good to get confirmed with each other is that we have such a slightly open approach to it around GMOs. I am also thinking of the fact that when you have visited potato meal centres and so on, you know that all potatoes are a high-value crop. If, along the way, some crops could also be developed in the potato sector, for example, which could be sprayed less by means of these technologies, it is a place where it can in any case be of interest. Then there may be other cases where we say we won't use this technology. So is it also from that perspective that the Socialists are seeing this technology and this bill, which is, as such, technically, but it is, in fact, good, because it ensures that we can get to the bottom of the individual cases when they are likely to arrive along the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143115	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. There should of course be no doubt that transparency of information is really, really important. That's why it's been very close to me to try to dive into when you talk about this confidentiality in some information, if that means you can cover up information. I can only say that that does not mean that, because it is still the Agriculture Authority that decides on confidentiality. So I actually consider that to be the case overall, and we can also take a thorough examination of the committee that this will create more clarity, more openness, and then I think we can actually say that it will create a simpler approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143200	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143201	Thank you. We can then ask without repeating it all: do the Socialists also have there, as I see it, the open approach to it when there are going to be some proposals, concrete crops, concrete situations, that you will say yes or no to using this technology and look at it on a case-by-case basis? So if it's something where there can be something good in it now I mentioned it about potatoes before • then it can be something you can say yes to. And then there may be other situations, other crops where they say that no, there will be risks to what we do not want to run, and then you can say no in those situations. Is that how I understand the social democrats' general approach to this about GMOs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143241	Now I do not want to put my head, if I may say so, on the chopping block in relation to the very specific things. The rapporteur of the Left also says that we must look at this from time to time. However, I believe that the rapporteur of the Left knows my approach to this whole area, which is that we need to be open. We must have open arms in relation to the new, and then, of course, there must be very thorough control of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143305	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143308	Yes, there must be openness about this, and I think it is a little strange to have to deal with something here, where there is no mention in the legislative notes or in the background material of the fact that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, in agreement, issued a report back on 12 May 2016, stating that it was not the Minister who had the power to allow genetically engineered crops in our agriculture, but that it was something that had to pass the Committee on the Environment and Food. I can see that there are a few Members who sit and nod a little, so perhaps there are two of us who remember it. Now we have a legislative proposal here, which relates a great deal to what information is needed to the public when dealing with GMO cases, and also the new CRISPR method. There I think it is quite wrong that the Minister has a competence to determine that some things should be secret. Because what kind of sequences are you working on? There should be publicity about that. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143413	I would very much like to take part in a committee procedure in trying to delve into this further. In fact, this is something that I have spent some time in my preparation to learn more, and what I have at least learned is that the rules on access to documents still apply. I also understand that there are no things that can as such be obscured in relation to information, since it is still the Agriculture Agency that makes decisions about confidentiality. But if the rapporteur has discovered a stone in his shoes or, for that matter, something that the rapporteur believes should be looked at further or should be further drilled out, then I am quite convinced that this is one of the things we can take in a committee. That is one of the things that I think the Minister will also reply to afterwards. But I actually judge this as an upgrade, also in terms of transparency, but we can look at it differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143506	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143508	I read the text in such a way that there is some information about DNA sequences and breeding patterns and strategies that this bill allows for closeness around. I think there should be openness about that. Because what we need to protect is that nothing genetically spliced into our nature that we do not want. And that means that there must be openness about things. So I think it is very good that the rapporteur is open to us having the opportunity to look at amendments to this draft law in committee. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143539	I would just like to admit that the rapporteur is well understood. However, as a starting point, I believe that this proposal actually creates greater openness. But let's get a bore out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143551	Thank you, and then there is a brief remark from Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143554	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. A little further from the previous speech, and also from the first from Mr Beyer de Ryke. Erling Bonnesen: There's like two things in this. One is really good enough; that we get some uniform rules and some openness, that we get a similar way of communicating, and thus we also get equal conditions of competition for all food producers who sell in the European Union. It's kind of positive. The second part of it is a bit of what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen also mentioned that there is in fact an authorisation for the Minister. And there's some kind of assessment in it. In any case, that is how I read it: it will be necessary for confidentiality to be disclosed that the company requesting confidentiality presents a verifiable justification. I think there are a lot of companies who will be able to do that, if there is such a bit of popular opposition to it, and if they do not want to, then they will be able to make it quite verifiable. And that is why I think it is very important and it is not because I have mistrust of the current minister, and I hope I do not get it to the future minister, so that we can easily find ourselves in a situation where that decision has to be made by a person: the minister in office at any time. And we in the Danish People's Party find this a shame. In fact, we think that we should stick to the fact that the decision that exists is taken in committee. And I think that the committee and, of course, there is also a majority that can trump something through that can make some good decisions, including in relation to confidentiality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143714	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen. We have also had the opportunity to discuss this bilaterally, where we have also given hands to each other that we will try to discuss this with each other. But as a starting point, I just want to say that it is not the case that I stand on the floor of Parliament and say that if power changes, there is automatic mistrust of some ministers. I do not hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say that either. As a starting point, I actually consider the ministers we have in Denmark and up through history, whether they are red or blue, as prime representatives of the Danish people's government, and that they also have an intention that things should be open, that things should be available. As I read the verification here, it is also about there having to be some very, very useful arguments if anything, if I may say so, has to be withheld. But that is why we have a committee reading in the Folketing: it is also to get this drill completely clear and clear. However, in relation to my starting point and my rapporteur's speech, I have emphasized that, as I see it, it actually creates the necessary openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143819	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143821	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Social Democrat rapporteur says so. We also usually have a good and confidential cooperation about it. What we have to be aware of here is that the directive is being amended. So it is a release into the environment of genetically modified organisms that we are sending out. And you just have to say that this isn't something you have to be afraid of. Nor is it something to be opposed to. But at least that is something to be watchful of. And that is why I think that, across parties, across the political spectrum, there is an interest in making these far-reaching decisions, so that we can do so in agreement and, at least, in discussion with each other. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143903	Yes, and that is where we should be taking part in all this consideration, I believe that Denmark previously supported a Council decision that the European Commission should carry out a review of the status of new techniques. And, as I understand it, the work has been completed here in April 2021, and I think there too that when the work is finished, on the part of the European Union, it will be entirely nearby, and Mr. René Christensen may also help to speed up the work of the committee, in that Mr. René Christensen is chairman of the committee, and is also curious, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211143939	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Social Democrat rapporteur, but will the rapporteur just prepare for the next one with a little despriting? It's very nice with the napkins. Thank you. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144014	Thank you. I can say straight away that we in the Left support this bill that we are discussing today. After all, it is a legislative proposal that brings Danish legislation into line with EU legislation, and it is in connection with a number of amendments to regulations and directives etc. within the GMO area. It's good to get it straight. As this has already been examined by the previous rapporteur, I do not want to go into all the details except to say that the very content of the legislative proposal means, in future, greater transparency in risk assessments. We think this is a good thing, as it has already been in the debate, so that it is going to go on in full transparency, so that we can tackle the individual issues here and so that we get around it well and thoroughly. And in those situations where we think it is something that does something good for our industry and production and where it can be done safely and well, we will of course say yes to it. Then there may be other situations... it must turn out if they come... where we don't think we're gonna use that technology, and then of course you're gonna reject it. That's why it's kind of good to get this straight. And, as I have already said, we support the bill from the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144128	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The rapporteur of the Left is also allowed to prepare for the next rapporteur, who is from the Danish People's Party. Rarely has there been such cleanness in the Assembly Hall. Thank you so much. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144204	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have said, it is, after all, EU legislation that we need to implement and, as a starting point, it is also positive that we should do so. That, as I have said before, also in my question, gives uniformity. It also provides security and provides a level playing field with regard to the food that we have. That's why it's good. What then lies in it is the way we choose to implement it, if you say yes to the proposal that lies here. There is, of course, one thing about this: we are doing it with a ministerial authorisation. It is not, in fact, the European Union that decides that it should be that way. The European Union decides that we should introduce it, but not how we should do it. Where we see that there may be a challenge and again I would also like to say that it is certainly not out of distrust of the current minister, nor of the future ministers, is there any possibility of confidentiality. This means that it will not be publicly available. It will not be a public debate you can have about a food. It will not be a public debate that can be held around live animals or others, for example, where, as it says, we actually have the possibility of releasing genetically modified organisms into the environment. This means that it is actually an organism that can be alive and that is genetically modified. There may be good arguments for doing so. There may also be good arguments for not doing so. That is why we believe that a debate should at least be held in the Folketing between the parties of the Danish Parliament and, in particular, in the Committee on the Environment and Food. That is why we are somewhat sceptical about giving a ministerial authorisation to assess whether there should be confidentiality in individual cases. We will, of course, take this up in committee and we hope that we can reach a broad agreement on how we can get it in a way, so that it is the Folketing that will do so. It is probably in some very, very few cases that this possibility of confidentiality, i.e. secrecy, will be taken advantage of. The proposal here is that there should be openness, but there is also a possibility of closeness, and we believe that this should be done in cooperation between the parties and in the way that the Folketing has always been put together on the basis of a majority decision and not a single minister. We will take this up in committee and hope that the debate that we are going to have there will be well taken up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144429	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144431	I am pleased to hear that the rapporteur has the approach that we need to have transparency about these genetically modified crops, or whatever they may be for some organisms. After all, we have had some good GMO processes in the past, where we have among other things. went to Spain and visited GMO producers and actually had a meeting and dialogue with Greenpeace and other GMO opponents, while there were some farmers in the same room. It was a little unique coffee with Monsanto and stuff like that. When we returned home, we decided to write this report, which is still valid. I think it is a little strange to see that this report is not at all the basis here. Because we have the dilemma that if there is to be closure on some of this on GMOs and we have the report that is still in force and that we in the Committee on the Environment have to deal with in the form of some proposal for a new genetically modified crop, and we cannot get all the information, then there is a huge problem in it. So does the rapporteur not see that it is a problem if we do not have enough transparency about something that we in the Committee on the Environment will have to deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144534	Yeah, sure. And in fact it is also the case that it is ultimately the Folketing that has to legislate. I hope, then, that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety will continue to hold on to this in all parliaments. After all, we will also get the EU cases through the committee in Denmark. We have chosen to do so before they come to the Committee on European Affairs, so that we can make comments on the EU annexes that are coming. I hope the present and future governments will stick to that too. Well, you have to remember that GMOs are a great way of working in many ways. A lot of that is what to say about old-fashioned technology. I also stood with my grandfather and grafted an apple tree, and suddenly two different apples came on the same tree. It's also a form of GMOs. So much of it is good, but we also have to say that some of it is really bad. Unfortunately, we have seen some companies which have made some crops resistant to a single product. We have also seen some companies make crops that simply could not start growing until they were sprayed with a product from that company. We do not want them in Denmark, and we do not want them in the European Union either. So there is a lot of politics when we talk about GMOs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144644	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144645	Well, I think the rapporteur can be quite calm with the apple tree grafting it is in a completely different category. I'm a big supporter of grafting. But with regard to GMOs and what we may be exposed to, I think it is essential that we have an open mind about what could be found; that is, whether there is suddenly a gene from a deep-sea fish that is spliced into a tomato plant so that it can withstand frost. This is the kind of aspect that we must have fully developed if it is the case that we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety have to deal with whether or not there is something that needs to be approved. I hope the rapporteur agrees with me on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144719	Well, I'm 100% in agreement with that. In fact, I also believe that it is in the interests of producers to have transparency about it. And good products can come from genetic engineering, which can also help us deal with famines and droughts, etc. That is why I believe that everyone has an interest in openness so that they are not afraid of the new, but are interested in it. That is why I also hope that we will stick to the report we have previously written in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144747	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144813	Thank you. When I was reading this bill too, I thought that it was an implementation of EU legislation, and then you usually put a dent in it, because we have to live up to the EU regulations that are there. I also think this is sensible in many ways, because what was, after all, the whole idea of the amending regulation that was made was precisely to ensure transparency. That's also why we're positive about this bill. There has to be transparency in these risk assessments and so on when you decide on them. I can say that normally, when I bring in various committee cases about GMOs, all warning lights are blinking in my office. It is not just the 'A' vote; it is, in fact, the whole thing that is blinking, because we need to be extremely careful about this. As I said, I read in this bill that many of these things are actually taken into account, and that creates this transparency and uniformity in it. Now there were some elements to which I was drawn to the attention of Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen on the question to the Social Democrat rapporteur, whom I think it is important that we have just turned around in committee work, but we take a positive view of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211144933	Thank you so much. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, Mrs Zenia Stampe. Zenia Stampe I don't remember how many we are). We're hoping that the Law Secretariat will be in control of that. Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211145002	In fact, I had some doubts as to whether this was the actual number of the parliamentary group, or whether it was the number of the parliamentary elections that we are starting from here. But it's so nice. That is to say, I have, like, had the extra time to think about what to say, by the fact that we have now gone down a single seat. And it is particularly useful to have a proposal such as this, which, of course, you read with great interest and dive into, and where you try to find out where there could be something buried. It is really difficult to find, and then you think: it may be if I listen very carefully to what the other rapporteurs say that they can show me where a possible dog is buried. I understand that there is a bid from the Enhedslisten. I myself am not entirely convinced that there is anything in relation to GMOs. As I understand this proposal, it is about GMOs, but it is not about granting authorisations for more or less GMOs. It's about regulation in relation to data format reporting, i.e. what data formats you use, how to communicate digitally, and also, of course, these confidentiality rules. Maybe there's something there. Something has been listed in the draft law, which I believe comes directly from what we are obliged to do in the directive, on the release of these genetically modified organisms into the environment, in other words rules on when to keep information confidential. It is, as far as I can understand, there could be something political, that is, some political balance between what information can then be allowed to be confidential about. That is why I would just like to say that, as a starting point, we are positive about this proposal, which we actually read first and foremost as the implementation of EU legislation. But if there is one or buried and there is a risk here that there are some discussions that would make sense in a wider forum than just with the Minister, then that is something that we are certainly sensitive to and which we would very much like to discuss in committee. There we are completely in line with the others who have raised that flag. I have not seen those warning lights myself, but if we can use the committee procedure to see if they blink and if we can do something about it together, then we will look very favourably at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211145240	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the radical rapporteur. Zenia Stampe, I'm just gonna have to drink off. Earlier I had to clean for SF, now I clean for Enhedslisten. I wonder who I'm gonna clean for next week.). Thank you. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211145319	It sounds really good if you can order cleaning at the Radicals. I do not really know if there is a Spanish GMO dog buried somewhere here, but if there is, I really think we should find it in the committee work. I would like to start by thanking NOAH for writing a hearing response. It is sometimes a little funny about cases like this when there is only one hearing answer. Is it because the hearing has been held over Christmas, or is there nothing in the case? In fact, I think it is essential for civil society to participate and try to interfere in the legislative work, and I can well miss that here, i.e. there are a little more consultation answers. What we have in mind is that we believe that this bill could be a little better with one or more amendments. We in the Enhedslisten are in fact in favour of requiring notifications to be standardised, for all communications to be digital and for it to be specified for which information confidentiality can be granted. We understand that some companies may need to keep certain information confidential from competing companies from the point of view of competition. These may be various commercial links between a producer or importer or in connection with purchases, market shares or business strategy, as the draft law indicates. But when I see in the bill that the Minister can come up with a proposal to be able to decide that information on DNA sequences and breeding patterns and strategies can be kept secret, I think that the authorisations go too far. I understand that information about these DNA sequences can be kept confidential, and I think that is quite unreasonable, because that is where you can see whether you think there should be a more critical approach to things. I think it is essential to look at the extent to which this bill complies with the report we produced in committee back in 2016, when we concluded that it was not the Minister who should have the power to deal with the release of GM crops in Denmark, but that it should be the Committee on the Environment and Food that should be presented with such a matter. When we look at this, how will the committee have the opportunity to look at a matter in depth? Yes, we would best be able to do so if there is openness about what has been developed and manipulated, and there is a public and there are scientists and there are organisations that have the opportunity to take a critical view of it. I am well aware that this is mostly a technical proposal, but I think it would be a great advantage if we came to the conclusion that we could adopt an amendment which would limit the secrecy that has been put into the proposal here. In other words, we understand that there may be some companies that do not want to provide all the information, but just when it comes to what has been manipulated, we think that there should be full publicity about it. So what is it you can experience in the world? Well, in the United States, where you have a lot of GM crops, there's a super-weed that can tolerate spray poisons. How did this come about? Well, it's come about because nature responds to what's out there in nature. I think there is every reason not to allow genetically modified crops in Denmark. That is our clear position, and if we are to have a political process in which we have the opportunity to have a proper debate on it, then it requires openness on what sort of manipulated crops have been developed. As I said, I think it would be nice to change the extent to which the 2016 decision is still in force in relation to what may have to be assessed. I think it is below the standard that it is not even possible to see in the background material for such a bill here that there has actually been a rather thorough process back in 2015/16 and that it was adopted in this way it was a unanimous Parliament that adopted that report. I think the standard on the documents in this case has been a little too low.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211145751	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211145756	Thank you. It is fine to have such a healthy scepticism about it. That is what I myself said when I was on the platform a moment ago. It is so good that we will have it processed in committee; I think we are many looking forward to it. But what I would like to ask is whether, in the end, Enhedslisten is of the opinion that whatever comes in this area, you just say no to it. Or do we really have to call it an open approach to it and say that we will look at it on a case-by-case basis? It cannot be ruled out that there will be some cases in which it can be beneficial to use it in many ways, and then there will probably be other situations and crops where it would be appropriate to say no. Or does Enhedslisten just take the view that you simply do not want it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211145841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211145842	In other words, I have been there for so long that I have heard many arguments for GMOs and, oh, that a corn that is drought-resistant will soon be invented which will benefit the entire population of Africa. That's just not what happened. After all, some crops have been developed that can tolerate certain spray poisons, and then some companies can sell seeds and spray poisons and make a good deal of it. And then there are some negative consequences elsewhere. So with regard to GMOs, we think it is good to have in some closed containers when developing and further developing medicines, but we are against GMO cultivation in the wild. And with regard to this new CRISPR technique, we have also come to the conclusion that we are also opposed to it. However, if we are to have a proper debate, we need to have transparency about things, so that the rapporteur of the Left can see whether we should be very concerned about some genetically modified crop or whether we can accept it. After all, this requires that we have transparency about what we have developed, and that is what we want to ensure by amending this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211145948	The next brief remark is to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211145951	That is both a question and a comment. Because this isn't about whether you're for or against GMOs as such. I just want to sign the Enhedslisten. I know Enhedslisten's position on GMOs, but I really think that Enhedslisten balances it quite well here and, of course, also recognises that there may be some companies that need and require business to negotiate in confidence. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: can the rapporteur not confirm that one can also have confidentiality in the parliamentary committees? We have it on a weekly basis in the Financial Committee, we have it on a weekly basis in the Committee on European Affairs and so on. And, of course, the Committee on the Environment and Food can also deal with cases where we treat businesses properly and where we have a debate about it, including in confidence. So it does not just have to lie with the Minister when there are elements that need to be treated in confidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150040	That's right. It is also a bit of a joke, because if there are some companies that want to go all the way out and get it grown, they will usually get a patent, and you have to describe what it is that you have been patented. When it comes to taking something in committee that requires confidential treatment, we can certainly find out, but the dilemma is that if there is a closeness around the committee, we will not be able to get the input from the outside world, that is, from critical researchers, associations, etc., that can give their input to things. So that is the disadvantage if we just have a confidential process in a committee where we then have some information that the public does not know about. In other words, it would really require us, as rapporteurs, to be good experts in assessing confidential information. Because sometimes you don't have to break the confidentiality by sharing information with others, but it would be very difficult here if you were to involve the whole of civil society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150143	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150144	Now it has to be said that confidentiality is not something the present government has come up with here. After all, this is something that lies in the EU regulation that is coming, that there is this possibility. Then it has been chosen by the Danish Government to say that if that possibility arises and you want to use it, then it should only lie with the minister, that is to say that only one person has to decide whether to take advantage of it. Does the rapporteur not agree that there should be better parliamentary control of whether this should be kept confidential? If you take it in a committee, at least more parties, more rapporteurs, in other words more, will have an impact on it. So just getting it across the committee would give more openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150217	Well, I can see that, in other words, it is an advantage that there can be a number of representatives of different parties with different opinions to assess it rather than a minister. So that would be a plus if that were the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150233	The next brief remark is to Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150235	Thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for a thorough and objective examination, I think. As I said myself in my rapporteur's speech, I have been delved into it rather well with, or at least tried to the best of my ability, what it means is that there is confidentiality in it. And what I have put a little emphasis on is that the comments of the draft law actually say: "Admittedly, confidentiality will not in itself mean that information is exempted from public access to documents. Although confidentiality has been granted, there will still have to be a specific position on the exclusion of information... ■ That is, in fact, what I think we are talking about. Because it is not just a question of a committee in here getting the information; it is also a question of the public being able to obtain the information on these matters. So I just want to know whether this does not reassure the rapporteur or whether it is certainly not something that can make the rapporteur sleep better at night.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150335	Well, I sleep quite well. However, where I think transparency should be, it is in connection with CRISPR techniques, GMO manipulation and what it is that we have been trying to manipulate. These are the elements on which I think it is essential that there is openness. So I can understand it if there is a company that doesn't want their entire business strategy to be subject to a public service, even though it could of course be interesting enough to know if it was a company that would spread a particular GMO crop around the world. But it's kind of more the professional thing about what's being manipulated, which we want to ensure there's an openness about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150416	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150418	I acknowledge that feedback because, as I see it, this is also what I think: there has to be a balance in relation to this, that is, because there are also some companies that have business plans; which have things that you can say are irrelevant to precisely this. So I just want to sign that I sense that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, like myself, is also trying to strike a balance in this. I also recognize the difficulty in implementing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150447	Well, it may be that there is a prospect that we can come up with a few good amendments for the committee procedure. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150456	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150520	Thank you. We're all gonna be so good at cleaning. We could also see that the Prime Minister himself could clean up Marienborg. It's quite reasonable and enjoyable and a good job this weekend. I would like to say that the Conservative People's Party supports L 155, which is, after all, about the release directive and digital communication. Of course, what comes to mind is this matter of confidentiality, but when you then run through the range of confidentialitys, it is of course information that companies must normally be allowed to keep to themselves. These are manufacturing and production processes, commercial links between the producer and the importer, commercial information relating to the applicant's purchases, market share and business strategy and such things. As a starting point, we cannot object to this. We are, of course, looking forward to the committee reading and, if there are any concerns, we must of course have them drilled out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150626	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. There is no brief comment to Mr. Per Larsen. This welcomes the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150645	Bill L 155 is a draft law amending the law on the environment and genetic engineering. The proposal empowers the Minister for Food to implement Article 9 of the regulation on the transparency and sustainability of the EU food chain risk assessment, which amends the directive on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified mechanisms. The amendments concern requirements for the use of standardised data formats for notifications and amended confidentiality rules for certain information in notifications. I can see that the draft law has been consulted by a large number of consultation partners without any significant objections being raised. New citizens can support Bill L 155.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150730	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And thanks for getting the platform ready... otherwise it would of course be commented on. The Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries has thus been prepared to take the floor. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211150800	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their good, constructive and also clear-cut speeches here at the first reading of the government's draft law on the amendment of the genetic engineering law. The aim of the draft law, as several rapporteurs have already mentioned, is to implement the amendments to the release directive adopted by the European Union with the new transparency regulation. The Transparency Regulation must ensure greater transparency in relation to the roles and tasks of the European Union, among others. GMO area. As a consequence of the regulation, the deliberate release directive has been amended in two areas. Firstly, we must be able to demand that companies use specific digital data formats when applying for authorisation to release GMOs. That is why the government is proposing to introduce a provision on digital communication in the field of genetic engineering law. In this area, we are dealing with high-tech companies where digital communication is an integral part of everyday life. It is therefore not the companies that should see a digitalisation requirement as problematic. Secondly, we must be able to amend the rules on confidentiality in the Release Directive. Today, the release directive lays down which information cannot be reversed by the change here. There will now be a comprehensive list of information that Per Larsen mentioned when he sketched out what may be confidential; other information cannot.This means that in future there will be a much clearer framework for when information can be confidential, so to speak, in relation to more openness. At the same time, companies must explain why it is important for each information to be treated confidentially. However, it is important to stress that it is therefore the authority, that is to say the Agricultural Authority, that decides when something is confidential. I heard the Danish People's Party, sir. René Christensen say: Well, yes, but a company might explain that one has to have some confidentiality etc. There I just see it as important to make it clear that it is the Agricultural Authority, that is, the Authority, which, on behalf of all of us, assesses whether there is a basis for confidentiality or not. It is also important for me to make clear what the impact of the agricultural authority's decision on confidentiality will be. The effect of a confidentiality decision will be that the information should not be included in the material sent in public consultation before the Agricultural Authority decides on the release of GMOs. The decision also has an impact on the information published when the EU is consulted in a case. But a decision on confidentiality will, as Mr. Anders Kronborg for the Social Democratic Party mentioned, not I am very concerned that there is openness in the area of GMOs, and it is therefore also important for me that access to documents will continue to be sought in accordance with the general rules on access to documents. With these words, I thank you for the floor and look forward to an examination of the legislative proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151127	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151133	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It was pretty nice. What I hear the Minister say and that is also the feeling that I have of the Minister is that the Minister is not suggesting that you should have more secrecy than necessary. I think the other rapporteurs also mentioned that there may be a few cases where this may be necessary. But what lies in it is also what the minister says, that is that it is the authority that has to give it is that it is the company that wants confidentiality that has to provide a verifiable justification. Then it has to be chewed through by the board. But in the end, as I read it, it is the Minister who says yes to it. Then I hear the Minister say that the possibility of access to documents is not restricted. That is very good, and it is of course important to emphasise it too. We can ask questions about that, and then the Minister can answer, and then we can put it on the bill. But it also means that the committee will always be able to ask questions about it, and it would be possible to imagine that, in the committee's proceedings, for example, if there were any objections. Is a matter which should be subject to confidentiality going to inform the committee about it? Would the Minister think that this was a good way to do it, in other words to automate the fact that the committee will be informed if it comes into use, for example?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151246	It is true, as I also said in my speech, that what is the system of what is being proposed here is that a company writes down why they want there to be confidentiality, and once they have done so it is the Agriculture Authority that assesses. Sir. René Christensen may say that it is then the Minister, but it is after all the authority which, within the rules that are about this kind of thing, has to assess whether there is an objective basis for keeping confidentiality about this. These are some of the elements that Mr. Per Larsen was talking about, i.e. primarily something that has to do with commercial interests. And then you can exclude this from publication. So that's how the system is. Whether or not one should have the opportunity to have a special exclusive introduction to this in a committee, I personally and as a minister at least have no objection to it being possible to do so. There may be some special closed briefings where you can have some things, but I have to ask my official equipment what we have the authority to do in this field. I only want us to have as much openness as possible, and that is also what the proposal proposes. Note that in the consultation process there has been one consultation response and we have been in dialogue with NOAH about what we are experiencing in this way they are misunderstood. Because it is more openness that is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151406	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151410	Yeah, but isn't it true that you can omit information about GM method, including DNA sequences, also in this CRISPR method? Well, I understand that a company will not publish its entire strategy plan and that sort of thing or its financial situation, but what I think there is reason to be interested in is what kind of genetically modified crops are, or what kind of CRISPR methods you use for a particular purpose. That's kind of what I'm focused on. Can the Minister not see that it would be an advantage for us to have the greatest possible openness about those elements?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151456	What is my assessment of this proposal, and what is also the Ministry's assessment of this proposal, is that it is a proposal for more If there are any corners or elements in it where there is something that can be kept confidential, we must have it drilled out. That's not how I've been informed about it, but it may be that there are some corners in this, and then mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and Enhedslisten welcome to ask some questions, and then we must drill it out, so we are absolutely sure that it is as we imagine, namely that it is more
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151533	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151534	Well, it's fine that there's the openness that this might be an even better bill. But I think it is rather strange when one sees such a legislative proposal that the previous history and debate in the Danish Parliament and in the committee have not been taken into account at all about the fact that it was actually decided to amend a legislative proposal so that it was not the Minister who had the power to say yes to genetically engineered crops in our agriculture, but that it was, in fact, something that was put into the Committee on the Environment and Food. Now we have a case where we have to deal with what degree of openness there is if such cases arise. So you are undermining the decision that has been taken in the past, I think, with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151615	The proposal here is about implementing EU rules in this field, and the objective is more If there are any corners in what can be done better, we have to look at it. And that's why we have a good committee process here in the Folketing, where you can get around these things in the second reading. And that's what I'm gonna call for, so you ask your questions, you look at these things, and we're gonna have to drill it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151646	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151704	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211151730	Thank you for the floor. We are now discussing motion for a resolution B 104, which requires the government to draw up by June 2021 a national strategy to ensure effective control of traffic noise along the state road network. First of all, I would like to say that I very much appreciate the fact that the proposal has been tabled so that we have the opportunity to discuss it in the Chamber today. Work on noise abatement is one of the areas that I want us in Denmark to be much better at dealing with. The reason for this is that the existing noise challenges, as there is also a little in the Chamber, I think from the traffic is to the inconvenience of many Danes. Thus, there are today about 115,000 dwellings along the national road network in Denmark, which are affected by a noise pollution that exceeds the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's indicative limit value for road noise of 58 dB. The figures must be taken very seriously as noise can be a stress factor which increases the risk of adverse health effects. Gene costs and health costs arising from noise from the State road network are collected in the region of 630 million. kr. annual. And the conclusion is therefore clear: noise is a major social problem and it is absolutely crucial that we are better able to deal with the challenges it poses. The main action in the field of noise is currently being carried out through the Road Directorate's noise action plans, and the plans are being prepared as a result of the Vejdirektoratet carrying out a comprehensive survey of road noise along the national road network every five years. The current noise action plan applies for the period 2018-2020, and when it expires, it will be replaced by a new updated plan. The current noise action plan identified about 120 particularly noise-laden residential areas, which the Road Directorate has considered should be continued. The priority has basically been given to where the most noise reduction can be achieved for the money. In order to qualify for specific noise screen projects in these priority residential areas, planning studies must be carried out on the projects and they then lead to concrete plant estimates for noise projects. Of course, we must allocate funds to this, and we must allocate funds to enable the projects to be started and implemented. As you know, it is my clear ambition to reach a broad agreement on future investment in infrastructure, where climate and environmental considerations are much more likely. This also means, of course, that during the forthcoming negotiations we will have to discuss investments in the area of noise. That is why I am pleased that this motion for a resolution highlights precisely the noise challenges. In my opinion, this is a good promise for my hope of being able to reach a broad agreement where this is also included. I note that the comments on the motion for a resolution show that it is the expectations of the proposers that the forthcoming infrastructure negotiations will result in funding for an ambitious noise control pool. I very much agree with that. As has already been said, we must, of course, be able to act and follow up on the Road Directorate's comprehensive noise action plan. However, I do not believe that a noise control pool should be left alone; on the other hand, noise control should have a broader scope in the plan and have several different focus areas, so that action against traffic noise can become more holistic. A significant pool for starting and implementing a wide range of noise reduction projects should therefore be complemented by new ways of thinking noise reductions into work on infrastructure. The government has therefore proposed that a global vision of noise reduction should be included in a future green mobility plan, which should be able to incorporate green and environmentally friendly new thinking in transport. My approach to the motion for a resolution itself must therefore be that we should not confine ourselves to planning an independent strategy in the area of noise, but that it should be integrated into the green mobility plan, where related concrete investments can help to boost efforts to a new level. That is why I am also looking forward to these negotiations and I am sure that we can reach a good agreement that takes account of a large number of noise-ridden citizens around the country. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211152226	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211152231	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Minister for the kind reception of the proposal and the fact that we are having this debate on traffic noise. I think there are many people in the country who are delighted that we are focusing on this. I myself have been around many places where the shoe presses, if I may say so. So thank you for your kind reception. I fully agree that this is not a question of creating a chrome-plated plan or strategy. Looking at it and getting the noise problem mapped out is, of course, a means. The Minister mentioned the current noise action plan for 2018, but can the Minister see the purpose in that we ask the Road Directorate and the others associated to look at the plan and update it to 2021; for something has happened in the three years, and now we are going to negotiate, and hopefully we are putting off a big bag of money. Therefore, it might be good to have an updated plan so that we really have a good basis for decision on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211152328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211152329	As I said, my approach will be to look both at where we can translate concrete noise initiatives, but also to look beyond it. So I think that is something we should discuss when we reach the negotiations on a green mobility plan. But, of course, I also take note of the desire and intention of the rapporteur of the Left on this subject and, as I have said, I am pleased that we are ready to look at this. I would probably also be prepared to have a holistic view of it, where other elements can also be included. I think we all have an interest in that, for example. the spread of low-noise asphalt will be as extensive as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211152416	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211152418	I fully agree with the Minister. Noise and means of combating noise must be widely understood. One is noise screens, but there are many other methods. In some places you try to slow down, in other places you try to use low-noise asphalt, and low-noise tyres are also an option, so I fully agree that this strategy must be holistic and it is not just noise screens we are talking about. As the Minister mentions, 120 particularly affected areas were identified three years ago, and in some of them we have solved the problem, and then I know that new areas have been added, and that is why I would like to ask the Minister whether we could not land it here in committee in a report that we should have updated the plans that lie there so that they are up to date and we have a good basis for decision when we are going to translate the large noise pool we hope to set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211152504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211152505	So, there is no doubt that it is important that we get our knowledge up to date, and therefore I am also pleased that a number of the vvm studies which have been carried out in the road area and which have also been presented and are regularly presented to the Parliament's Transport Committee have also thought noise into it. A good example is the latest updated vvm study of the Frederikssund motorway, where noise projects have just been planned, and for that matter you can also mention noise from freight trains in Ringsted, which is also one of the issues that may be a future problem. So we're looking at this as a challenge in broad terms. So I agree that we need to have up-to-date knowledge and whether there may be a need to make a report, we will have to discuss it further, and I think that the debate here today will reflect that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211152559	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There are no more brief comments to the Minister, and the rapporteur begins with this. The first rapporteur to speak is the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Thomas Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211152620	Thank you. The motion for a resolution highlights a very important transport policy problem, namely the fight against noise. Today a large number of residential areas around the country are harassed by traffic noise, both from state and municipal roads, and the problem of noise is in many parts of the country so serious that it has very negative health consequences: stress, sleep problems and headaches. And hundreds of Danes are estimated to die prematurely each year because of traffic noise. The problems do not go away by themselves. Forecasts show that road traffic is expected to increase further in the coming years, and therefore noise problems are an important challenge which we decision-makers must be much better at preventing in new road projects and reducing in existing road projects. Has one tried to be in one of the residential areas on e.g. The Copenhagen West Region, in Randers, in Silkeborg and elsewhere in the country, where citizens suffer every day from noise pollution, there is no doubt: noise is a huge burden. The intention of the motion for a resolution to reduce noise is therefore really no doubt about it. I am quite sure that all the speakers today will vote. However, I would like to make a constructive criticism of the proposal so that I can contribute to what we all want, namely to reduce noise. We must tackle the source of noise. The noise emitted by the engines of the vehicles is partly due to the friction between the tyres of the vehicles and the road surface. We must expect that the growth of electric cars on the Danish roads will mean that the noise from engines will be drastically reduced in the coming years, and that is a very good side effect of the green conversion of the car park. So that development comes kind of on its own. However, the noise generated by the friction between the tyres of the vehicles and the road surface must be dealt with more. With regard to the road surface, it would be good if the Road Directorate continued to develop its experience base. For example: Unfortunately, we saw on the Silkeborg motorway that the ground did not fully meet the expectations of noise reduction, and that is why we must become much sharper at it. As far as tyres are concerned, I am very surprised that we have not done much more to ensure that low-noise tyres are driven on the Danish roads. Of course, tyres must first of all be safe to drive, but tyres can also be quiet at the same time. The regulation of tyres is today via a European regulation, and tyre noise is already a parameter that must be reported by manufacturers. And that's a good thing, but is the information from the tire manufacturers okay? Is information good enough for consumers? Do you give priority to Danish car importers and car dealers to sell cars with low-noise tyres? What do consumers do when buying new summer and winter tyres? Well, my own mechanic is a thoughtful man. He said to me: You have to drive back and forth between Copenhagen and Silkeborg, and it's a long trip, so you have to have some quiet tires so that you don't get much noise into the cabin. That's why, when I have the opportunity, I'm buying low-noise tyres. But I do not think, unfortunately, that all consumers think about it when they have to buy tires. I think they think: what can last the longest, and what is the price? And then that's what becomes the parameters you choose from. I believe that in the short term we must make an effort to increase the attention of consumers, car importers, car sellers, hauliers and transport companies to the need to buy low-noise tyres for their vehicles. In the winter and summer season, in other words, where people have to decide what kind of tyres they should have, I think we should simply make sure that there is more information about it, so that it is included as a parameter, that we have to choose low-noise tyres. Then I think we should also take the dialogue with our parliamentarians, who sit in the relevant committees and coordinate efforts to ensure that European regulation is even better and also the information contained in the legislation. In this way, I believe that we can win a lot. With all this in mind, I do not think we should be content with the strategy proposed by the Left in this motion for a resolution. We should take out the big toolbox and look at traffic noise in a wider context. The work on noise and a noise pool I certainly expect will be part of the forthcoming negotiations on a green mobility plan, where we should think about concrete new investments in the fight against noise with a long-term plan on how to address the many housing around the country that is plagued by noise. Today, I would like to welcome the fact that we agree that combating noise is a common task which does not know political boundaries. This is good for the discussions in the forthcoming negotiations, and I hope for a broad agreement, including on this issue of noise. I believe that we should jointly draw up a report in the Committee on Transport, which brings together the joint volume of our ambitions to reduce and prevent traffic noise. And it is done not only with more money, but also by spending the money wisely so that the money goes further than it does today. Social democracy cannot support the resolution as it stands, but would very much like, together with the other parties who so wish, to draw up a visionary report on the fight against noise. And then I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that, unfortunately, their rapporteur cannot be here today because of committee work in another area, and I can tell you that the Radical Left does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211153128	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211153133	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen for a good speech. I think there were many good elements and we fully agree that noise should be seen in a broad perspective. I welcome the announcement that you will look at a report where we are just trying to meet about these common denominators, and that work is not wasted, because we can then use it in our debates afterwards. So I think that is very good tones, including the European dimension that is being mentioned here, and focus on tyre selection. I'd like to ask Mr. Thomas Jensen mentioned something, for now he mentioned some places where the shoe prints, among others. Buskelund at Silkeborg, where we've both been out. We have problems on Funen, in the West, at Kolding, at Randers and many other places. These are existing road projects where there is a delay where traffic has increased and there has been a problem and then we have to do something. But there are also the new road projects in which we will have to make sure that noise is taken into account from the outset in future. Is Mr. Thomas Jensen agrees that in future we will need more measurements
ParlaMint-DK_20210211153237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211153239	When you are out among citizens and when you take part in consultations on traffic noise where people are very troubled, it is an element that contributes to a lack of confidence in politicians that you insist in the Road Directorate that it should be calculations. Those are my own experiences. I believe that we must come to the citizens and look at how we can compare measurements with calculations and see if we can be more precise in this way to say how much the load is in a given place. Then, of course, we find ourselves in a situation where, when we are going to create new road projects, we cannot measure in advance, and that must then be based on the calculations. Afterwards, you may be able to supplement with measurements. In concrete terms, we see at Buskelund in Silkeborg that the assumptions underlying the noise calculations were not met, and therefore there are a lot of citizens today who are noise-ridden. That is why it is also one of the projects I think we should try to look at when we are going to look at specific noise problems that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211153348	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211153349	Thank you. I think that sounds really good. Because I think there are many who are tired of the fact that it is often theoretical calculations that are like being kept, and people today can buy their own measuring equipment, which is very, very accurate, and measure, and therefore people cannot understand that we sometimes manage it here on the basis of theoretical calculations. So that's where I hear we're on the same wavelength. From now on, we are going to use measurements rather than calculations, and there you can do it to evaluate completed road projects, so you get an experience based on measurements of how things turned out with the traffic that became.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211153423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211153424	Well, it's nice that we agree on this. I must also say to people who are listening that in the Committee on Transport there is a great deal of commitment to this. Many people are out there meeting citizens who are noise-ridden and who do not quite see that there is a connection between the calculations being made and the less quality of life they experience in their daily lives. There is something about how to do these calculations, with peak hours on the clock and so average calculations, and there I think we should simply get to the citizens and be more honest about how things are related.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211153500	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, since the rapporteur of the Left is the author of the motion and comes at the end of the list. Thomas Jensen I can make a brief comment while I stand and dries off here, and that is that I have now taken the last napkin). Thank you for that service message. I've got more in stock here. Thanks for your help. Welcome to sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211153535	Thank you. Rumor has it that some of those who sit and follow at home in front of the screens believe that it is kleenex that we are doing here in the Folketing, and that this is because we are simply crying over each other up here on the platform. But, of course, it's to fight the coronasmite and everything else. I will also promise to clean up before the next rapporteur. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to thank the Left for giving us today the opportunity to have a discussion with the Minister for Transport on how to actually work out a better fight against traffic noise. It is an indisputable fact that this is something that affects many people, and I also think that in his own speech the Minister for Transport was clear in relation to the illustration of how many Danish private households are actually closely affected by it and who have it as a near chronic suffering in their local environment. When they are at home on their own land register, they actually experience that the noise has not diminished; it has actually increased along many of the main roads here in Denmark, and it is definitely not positive. We can support the proposal that the Left has put forward here today. We think it makes good sense to have these things prepared and clarified when, hopefully, we get to work on the negotiations that the Minister once again here, because I do not know which time, said here in the Folketing, that it will be soon. There's about to be a little Olsen gang over it. Well, there's a lot of plans, but we never really get started. I remember that when we got started after the elections, it was said that infrastructure negotiations would be convened in autumn 2019. Then it was said that the negotiations came in spring 2020, and later it was called autumn 2020. And then I've heard the juice so I was told at a citizens' meeting in Næstved by Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen said that in the spring of 2021 the negotiations will come. I still hope away, I will say to the Minister, and I will look forward to the day we start the negotiations. But it has been a long desert migration in relation to getting these things on the agenda on which they belong. Some may wonder why the traffic noise discussion is part of an overall infrastructure debate, but it is, and it is, because, of course, we must be willing to earmark a considerable amount of money for the improvements that can be made. The Minister also mentioned that there are still a great many projects that have unfortunately not been implemented, and the Minister is right about that. I also think that this is precisely the point of clarifying the various elements and how much needs and so on. It's important. For example, I was contacted by Denmark's Radio not so terribly long ago about criticism of noise reducing measures in Kolding, where people complained that noise reducing measures had been taken but they did not help. They moved the noise to some others. Yes, one can explain it well to the other, but it is obviously absurd if we end up making noise reducing measures which simply shift the problem. Another place we have all seen and heard about is Ringsted, because when you drive on the West Motorway, you actually drive across Ringsted. Both the municipality and many of the politicians in Ringsted have said for years that the traffic noise that there is is is escalating it is getting bigger and bigger. And the Road Directorate has also chosen to establish noise barriers on three sides of the area, but they are just missing the latter. And that actually means that the noise nuisances have now become seriously large on the last line to the north, towards the Benløse. It's just an example. I also noted that the rapporteur of the Left and the Socialist rapporteur, both elected in Silkeborg, used a local case. I am elected in Horsens, so of course I choose a case from Ringsted, because I think you have to move a little away from your own area. But at least this all helps to illustrate that there is a visible need for us to start giving priority to some of these different efforts. One thing we would like to have with us when we now hopefully agree on a text in the Committee on Transport is that it will not just be a traffic noise plan in relation to the state road network, but that we will also think our railways into this. I mean, I took note, for example. Yesterday, in Horsens, the local politicians with the mayor will build 250 youth housing right down to the railroad, and there was great concern about what this will bring about by noise and impact on the local environment. So if we can get the railways on now, then we will certainly be happy with that part of it too. However, we can support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154058	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154102	Thank you. I would like to sign for the support of the motion by the Danish People's Party. And I totally understand that we're taking the railroad with us, of course. It has been mentioned that there are noise problems in Ringsted when there are many running trains and such things, so we are fully aware of that in terms of the fact that it is a holistic approach. Then came mr. Hans Kristian Skibby to say that we focus a lot on Silkeborg. And that's right, it's an important place, but I think I also mentioned Funen, Kolding, Randers, the West and such places, and it's important, because it's the whole of Denmark that we need a plan for here. But I would like to ask the Danish People's Party something. Now Mr. His Kristian Skibby is a figure compared to millions we were about to use. Is that enough? I mean, how much do you think Mr. His Kristian Skibby tell us to sacrifice on this altar?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154148	Yes, but millions can turn into billions. That's how much I've learned in my math class. Well, I'm a linguistic student, not a mathematical student, but I know that if you have over 1,000 million, you're up over a billion. So we are above those limits, and especially when it is in relation to an investment period, when it may be agreed and which is 10-12 years ahead. It will then be a considerable number of millions, but the rapporteur can put into it what the rapporteur wants to put into it. We have no doubt that it will be a million dollars, but it is also a certain number of millions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154223	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. Thank you. And the next rapporteur is ready, so when the platform is thoroughly cleaned, and I can confirm it will be, I can welcome Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154252	Thank you. Thank you very much to the Left and to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen to make this proposal for a national strategy to combat traffic noise. In fact, I think that is a proposal with a lot of good points in it. We're really happy about that in the SF. Traffic noise is of great concern to us, and it plagues enormous numbers of people who live along the road network and, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur also pointed out, people who live along the railroad. And there is no doubt that we have done far too little to prevent and combat traffic noise. If you take into account how many tools we actually have in the toolbox, I think we should get started. And this debate on an infrastructure plan is, of course, a good opportunity. However, I would urge that a joint report be drawn up in the Committee on Transport on this proposal; that we see whether we cannot sit down and agree. Because I think there are a great many good points in what is being put forward by the Left here. So, thank you very much from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154404	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154422	785,000 homes in Denmark are today subject to traffic noise. Hang on, 785,000 homes. When on average two people live in a Danish home, we are talking about over a million and a half Danes who are daily burdened with traffic noise, i.e. a quarter of all Danes. Now we have a motion for a resolution from the Left, in which we fully share in the Enhedslisten the intention to put an end to the health damage caused by traffic noise being too many Danes. But where is the noise coming from? In fact, the authors themselves mention the problem in the proposal itself: that is precisely the increase in traffic in general and, in particular, on motorways. But it is also the very same proposers who have hot dreams of more asphalt and more motorways, just as it was the Left, who in 2017 proclaimed the • under the heading: Speed with reason. Soon you will be able to drive a little faster on the roads that you will now have to drive 90 km/h on selected roads, where you will have to drive 80 km/h earlier, and that you will have to speed up to 130 km/h on selected motorways. That is why it is a little shattered in my ears when the Left wants a strategy against noise. The best strategy is precisely to drop new motorway projects so that more Danes do not have to be burdened with additional noise. It is to ensure that the upcoming green mobility plan as an active goal has fewer cars on the roads and more Danes on the bike or into the public traffic, just as Enhedslisten would like to see the speed of the lines close to a residential area reduced to a level in order to comply with the indicative limit values for noise. To slow down will in many places be cheap and the most effective tool we have in the toolbox to limit noise nuisances. The Enhedslist therefore fully agrees with the intention of this proposal, and I am therefore quite sure that we can find a joint report which makes a national strategy to combat noise part of the future infrastructure negotiations. At least we owe that to the one and a half million Danes who are burdened every day with traffic noise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154645	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154650	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen for the relatively friendly reception of the proposal. I fully agree that we can produce a report in which we can bring together the common denominators. But there was something shattering in Enhedslisten's ear, and I am a little surprised, because I assume that Enhedslisten agrees that Danish society needs mobility, and mobility means that we drive by car and by train, and such noises. This isn't about combating mobility. We want to promote our mobility. However, since there is a reverse of the medal, which is about noise, it is a matter of combating it as best we can. That is what such a strategy is all about. So does the Enhedslisten not agree that we need to have traffic if Danish society is to work and that, especially if we want a good welfare society, we need mobility and that this is really about combating noise and not mobility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154746	Thank you for the question. I fully agree that there must be a high level of mobility in Denmark. After all, it is a political priority whether we want to spend more billions on several motorways or whether we want to spend them on bicycle paths and public transport, for example. And I do not think the rapporteur is in any doubt about what I will choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154806	Then there are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Marcus Knuth. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154828	Thank you to the President and thank the Minister for recognising that we need a national noise strategy. Noise is unfortunately a daily nuisance for too many Danes, not least in the cities and for those who live close to motorways. When Conservatives sat in government during the last period, noise reduction was a priority for the government, and it was worth noting one that was set aside in the government's infrastructure plan. That plan has now, to put it mildly, been paused or at least cancelled by the new Socialist Government, and that is why we do not have a national strategy for something as important as combating noise. That's why we're really glad that the Left is bringing this up as a priority. This is something that we wholeheartedly support and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154920	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the rapporteur is preparing for the next rapporteur, who is outside the groups. This is Mrs Susanne Zimmer speaking as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211154939	Thank you. Traffic noise is a huge strain on a lot of people. It costs in health costs and in good life. We know how noise is stressful. I think we all experience the peace you get when you turn off the hood or the vacuum cleaner. So it is clear that noise matters. We should actually issue an announcement about how close we must build on a motorway forward-looking, just as we do for motorways and roads, and just as we have distance requirements for railways. In the Greens, we do not believe that we should create more motorways because we know that this causes noise. It destroys nature, it requires raw materials, and it results in an increase in traffic, which is straining all other road systems. We also know that we have changed our transport patterns along the way. We have, for example. Seen under the corona that people have homework, and it will certainly develop, also in relation to when we get more electric cars and more car passes and communal drives. But anyway, we have to take account of this noise, which is why we would very much like to support the proposal and possibly be included in a report if it comes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211155105	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Then it is time to welcome the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211155130	Thank you for that, President. I'm one of those people who makes a lot of field visits around the country. I did that in my previous life as a soldier, but now I'm doing it as transport rapporteur. And many of those field visits are about noise. Well, there are a lot of people asking us out to hear about their noise problems and to get our understanding so we can do something about them. That's what inspired me on this motion for a resolution. I thought this issue deserved a debate in the Assembly. I also think that this debate is an appropriate warm-up to the negotiations we are about to begin next month, the Minister is nodding half. There will be noise; we can hear that from all the rapporteurs. I am very pleased about that. There has been a marked increase in traffic in recent years. Is that good or bad? It is certainly an expression of the fact that we are working on the wheels in Denmark literally. It shows that we have growth, that we have a lot of work to do, and that we make a lot of money in Denmark. Once again, it is necessary for us to have some welfare, for us to have good hospitals, schools, kindergartens, nursing homes, etc. That is why traffic is not negative in itself; it is actually the prerequisite for our having a prosperous society. But the reverse of the medal is that increased traffic, not least on motorways, causes increased noise. Some people then spoke a little negatively about motorways, but it is now the case that motorways are the safest roads, and it is therefore positive that the majority of traffic growth is precisely on motorways, in other words where it is safe to drive and there is less traffic on the more dangerous roads. Therefore, we should not cry about the fact that there will be more traffic on motorways. But we have a noise problem and that is what we are talking about here. In history, we can expect a further increase in traffic in the coming years, even a marked increase. Now that the corona's off, we're gonna get the wheels going again. Although I believe that it has come to be that some will work from home part of their working time, and that everything else just means less traffic, and even if we have co-driving and such things, we will still have a growth in traffic. After all, the Road Directorate has created a noise action plan in 2018, as the Minister mentioned, and it is good to have such a tool that is rolled out on a regular basis. But now we are faced with important negotiations, probably on a comprehensive agreement that will take 10 or perhaps 12 years to come. We will have to see what we end up with, and that is why I think it is important that, as a basis for these negotiations, we have an updated noise situation, if I may say so. A lot has happened in the last three years. In some places we have solved the problem, and elsewhere it has become much worse. There have also recently been quite new methods of combating noise. It has come to light lately that there is a great deal to be gained from tyres, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned. Silent asphalt has arrived. There will be new achievements. Therefore, it is of course relevant that we update the noise action plan that we have from 2018 and have it serviced. And it has to be with a holistic, wide-ranging perspective that has been mentioned by several people. Several people have said that noise basically makes us sick. Well, a lot of people are suffering from this. These are large numbers, and therefore there are strong health arguments to get something done about them here. That is why we must have a large pool in the forthcoming negotiations. Already in the Blue Agreement of March 2019 we were very ambitious. We on the Left are even more ambitious in the forthcoming negotiations, and we imagine that at least we should not be below a figure in the region of 2 billion. kr. If we're talking about a 10-year horizon, it's 200 million. kr. a year. We simply have to find that if we are to deal with the problems around the country, and I think there is a broad political will to do so. I very much welcome this debate and I welcome the positive reception given to the proposal as such. Now it is not crucial for the Left whether or not this proposal is adopted. What is crucial is that we have the debate and that we gather together a report that can lead to some results. And I can hear that we can get together on a joint text under the auspices of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and that text can be exactly our working basis when we are going to the negotiating table in a few weeks' time, we must count on it. So thank you very much for a good debate. There are some who think that we politicians are making too much noise, but here too I think there are many who welcome the fact that we have had a debate on noise, because that is something that is a major problem for a great many citizens. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211155619	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. It has been a pleasant noise with skilled rapporteurs all around. So thank you for a sober debate. No one else has asked to speak on this point, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211155640	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211155657	Thank you, President. When you are given the floor in the Chamber in connection with a motion for a resolution on bicycles, you will want to consider, when you like music, whether you can find a musical reference. The musical reference could of course be Povl Kjøller, who was so fond of his bike; it could also be Queen with Freddie Mercury at the head who sang about the joy of cycling: I want to ride my bicycle. But it could also be Th.L. Mortensen's song about the little cyclists who fall off one by one and end up becoming one. And that is the last thing we want to avoid, that is to say, that there will be fewer cyclists, rather than more. That is why it is important to bear this in mind when we are now dealing with motion for a resolution B 100. The proposal instructs the government to draw up a new national bicycle strategy which maps the entire Danish bicycle infrastructure and which identifies where improvements and new investments are needed by mid 2020. I would like to say that the bicycle sector, as in relation to the motion for a resolution we have just had, is a central issue for me: these areas are central issues for the government. And I want us in Denmark to be even better at dealing with them. Therefore, it is also good that the Left focuses on the area. Thank you for that, too, for my desire to be able to reach a broad agreement on a green mobility plan, which is intended precisely to accommodate green and environmentally friendly innovation in transport. The bicycle as a daily means of transport with or without an electric motor to help is a central part of the government's transport policy. It is not only, of course; there must also be room for cars and for public transport, etc. etc. But it is now the case that people who cycle daily get healthier, they get fresher, and they get happier by it, even if it rains, or when what is today really cold. And then they get exercise and get better shape. At the same time, the bicycle can be used to a much greater extent as an alternative to other modes of transport, both in cities and also in rural areas, where not least electric bicycles will be able to expand bicycle distances. Unfortunately, as in the song that I started by quoting the 'bike rides', there are fewer kilometres than in the past, and that is why we must also note that it is only in the larger cities that cycling traffic is increasing these days. Outside urban areas, the bike is not to the same extent the natural first choice in everyday life, even if you may just have to go down to the bakery after breakfast one Sunday morning and it should in some cases be within bike distance and thus you might also have room for an extra half a bag in the bag home. Anyway, we're gonna change all this. We need more people to choose the bike, and we have an agreement with our support parties in the government by December at the latest. kr. for investment in bicycle promotion. The money must help to make it more attractive to take the bike, for example there must be better access to public transport with safe and good bike paths. It is a very good step on the way, but we can do even more. And as you probably know, it is my clear ambition to reach a broad agreement on future investments in infrastructure. It actually says directly in the understanding paper that this requires investment in cycling, and that is why, as in the noise field, I am extremely pleased that the resolutions we are debating today focus on these areas. So, in my opinion, it is a good promise for the desire to reach a broad agreement. I have also had to note that the comments on the motion for a resolution show that it is the expectations of the proposers that the forthcoming infrastructure negotiations will result in an ambitious state bicycle pool for the coming years. I very much agree with that. However, I do not think that such a pool should be left alone. On the other hand, efforts in the field of bicycles should consist of a multi-faceted strategy. You can say that we have to have many spokes on the wheel • where we both invest massively in cycling to ensure the right conditions, whether you live in a city or in the countryside, but we also need to invest in better knowledge about bicycle promotion, so that we can respond more to the wishes that are around the country, so that even more people choose the bike. There must therefore be more advantages in cycling. All of this must be linked to an overall vision of the bicycle area. The government has therefore proposed that a comprehensive vision of promoting cycling should be included in a future green mobility plan, which should contain green and environmentally friendly innovation in transport. My approach to the resolution itself is therefore that we should not just plan an independent strategy for the bicycle sector, but that it should be integrated into the green mobility plan, where related concrete investments can help to raise efforts to a new level, just as we have just discussed with regard to the noise area. That is why I am looking forward to the negotiations and I am sure that we will be able to come up with a good agreement that focuses on bicycle promotion and that will make more people jump on the bike again. In other words, the government cannot support the resolution but appreciates the fact that the debate has been raised in this Chamber. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160256	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160301	Thank you to the Minister for the kind reception of the proposal and the fact that we are actually debating cycling in the Chamber. I think this is the first time we have done so in the 16 years I have been in here. And that is a good warm-up for our forthcoming negotiations. Now the Minister says that we can integrate all of this into the green investment plan that we are going to do together. I fully agree with that; that is the aim so that we can get beyond the steppes. But does the Minister not agree that, in preparation for that plan, it would be good to have the current bicycle infrastructure mapped out? Where do we have bike paths along state roads? Where do we have it in the municipalities? What quality are they in the narrow ones that we know along the highways, or are they broad bike paths? And what's the need? I mean, where does the shoe press the most? Doesn't the Minister think it might be useful just to get such a survey started before we are about to spend the money we hope to find together here shortly so that we ensure as much bike power as possible for every penny we can find? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160406	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160408	Well, I think there's every reason we're going to know even more about the bicycle area. And by the way, it has to be said that some of the knowledge of the bicycle, such as: The Road Directorate makes available, for example, is enormously impressive. the identification of what are some concrete road safety measures that work in relation to cyclists. It may be that the stop line is pulled forwards or backwards in relation to the other road users, or that you have the right to drive, i.e. that the green light for cyclists turns on a little before the others. All this is very carefully mapped out and has actually given some relatively surprising knowledge, among other things. because some of what a cyclist can perceive as relatively safe is not necessarily in practice, while what may be seen as less secure can actually be safer because one is more vigilant. All this is, of course, knowledge that we need to focus on, including the whole survey. However, as I said, I think that is something that we should take into account in the specific negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160515	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160517	Well, thank you for your kindness. I think it's a good idea now that we start this before the negotiations so that we don't sit in the room and have to find out these facts. But I fully agree that this is more than just infrastructure; it is also the rules and framework for cycling, if I may say so. Now, for example, we know that there are relatively many people injured on electric bicycles, and this may give us reason to consider the compulsory use of a helmet, that is to say, for users of electric bicycles, precisely in the case of electric bicycles. This is something we can discuss later. But I would like to come back to why I mean that when it comes to mapping the infrastructure. It is inspired by the Cycling Policy Think Tank, of which I have the pleasure of being a member, along with other rapporteurs in this Chamber. There it shook me when it emerged that there is no overall overview of Denmark's bicycle infrastructure. Well, of course, the Road Directorate has its own maps, but then the municipalities have their own world. Could it not be an advantage to get such a unified Danish map of what we have of bike paths and what we lack?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160610	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160612	Thank you. First of all, I should like to remind you that with regard to the very fast e-bikes, i.e. speed-pedelecs, there is a requirement to wear a helmet; I would just like to say this if someone is listening and not aware of it. Because I know, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is aware of. The mapping of our entire bike path I have also had a feeling of was something we didn't have enough knowledge about. I have become aware that an open data source cover has actually been made for the entire bicycle infrastructure in Denmark if not all of it, then at least close to the entire bicycle infrastructure in Denmark which has then shown that there is considerably more bicycle path than I was actually aware of and than the Ministry itself had calculated. But we will look into that, even when we come to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160703	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Transport. Sorry, there is one more brief comment. It's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160710	I also pressed in rather late, so I regret that, President-in-Office, it was my fault. I just had some doubts, because I actually thought it was a sensible speech by the Minister, and I think it is a good resolution, so I was just really really wondering why it is precisely that you cannot support it. Is it mostly the expression of this old christiansborg fan, where they say: it is not ourselves who has made the proposal? It is, of course, to gather knowledge, so we have a good basis for the negotiations that we are all waiting for. I think we could go together on this motion for a resolution and say that this is quite reasonable. It is small money, it is a good purpose, and I hear the Minister speaking in favour only of this proposal, so I am actually surprised that the conclusion is that we are voting against something we are giving a long speech in support of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160758	I think that more knowledge needs to be created, but some of it also requires that money be set aside for it, and that is why I believe that it should be part of the plan that needs to be negotiated. And then it is no different than putting the pool funds off for the promotion of bicycles, so you will also be able to use that knowledge in practice over the next decade or longer. So I do not think it is enough simply to acquire knowledge, nor is it enough simply to allocate the funds; the two things have to be thought together, and I think this is the most appropriate thing to do in the context of the mobility plan. However, there are some very sensible considerations in this and I could also imagine that today in the Chamber we can discuss whether some of these things can also be embraced in a report or something similar. But I will leave that up to the rapporteurs in the parties to decide. After all, we in the government do not have that opportunity to act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160902	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160903	I fully agree that the funds should, of course, be linked to the mapping, so that the mapping is not alone, but vice versa, when it comes to setting aside funds, it should also be based on the real need. I guess it shouldn't be about just thinking about a number, and then there's just a bike trail for the amount that now is. That is why I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says that you should do the mapping first, because then we have a good basis for being able to set aside a fair amount for what could also be a large amount of money, because I really think there is a lot of potential in this. So I just do not see what the argument is for having to be against getting a survey first, so we have a good basis for being able to set aside some funds, because it is true, as the Minister says, that it is connected, but the mapping will probably come first.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160947	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211160949	Under the previous government, the VLAK plan, for which there is no majority, had a total of 1 billion. kr. to cycling over a period of 10 years. In the year and a half that the government has been in power, we have invested well over half a billion dollars in cycling. I am quite sure that we have a lot of good ideas, and I can assure everyone here that there will be plenty of good proposals and suggestions for how we can translate money, both along state roads, but also for municipal investment and, incidentally, for knowledge when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161030	We thank the Minister. As the first rapporteur, Mr. Thomas Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161042	Thank you for the floor. Cyclism has many good and positive effects. When we trample on the pedals, we get the pulse up, red cheeks and fresh wind in the hair. It is good for the mood and has health benefits for both the individual and for society. And new calculations show that society gets a saving of DKK 8 every time we cycle 1 km because it has such good health effects. At the same time, it is also good for the health of the planet if we choose the bike over the car when we are going to fetch breakfast for the family. This does not mean, of course, that all Danes should drop other modes of transport and only cycle, but it advocates that we should do much more to ensure good and safe conditions that make more people want to jump on the bike. I also see this as the intention behind this resolution on a national bicycle strategy: how to make the bicycle an even more attractive means of transport. And I am very pleased that the Left now has an interest in how we can promote cycling. I think there is something very interesting in the comments on the motion for a resolution, namely that the electric bicycle is gaining ground. After all, the electric bike gives citizens the opportunity and courage to plan longer distances on a bicycle than if you only had to use the rye bread engine. Therefore, I think what is highlighted in this proposal is interesting, because when we look at the pattern of commuting, 47 per cent run. of those commuting to work today, less than 10 km. And looking at the number of people driving less than 20 km, it's 68 percent. by those who commute today. I think it offers some prospects for negotiating a green infrastructure agreement. If we think about this new technology with the electric bike in how we can get more people to jump off the four-wheeled car and over on a bike, I believe we can take the top of the tribulation in many parts of the country. If you take some of the provincial towns in which I myself have traveled a lot, you can see that every morning, when people have to go to work and the children have to be handed in, there are very, very many drivers sitting in line and wasting a lot of time. Would you like two days a week to take the baby e-bike to work and three days a week to take it? That way there would be fewer cars on the roads. I believe there are good prospects in that. Then we can alleviate some tribulation, and at the same time we will have some environmental effects. Finally, I would like to say that we cannot confine ourselves to a strategy. We need a comprehensive green mobility plan with concrete investments that promote cycling. As with the motion for a resolution on noise, we believe that the plans for cycling should be considered as a more holistic approach and as part of the forthcoming negotiations on a green mobility plan. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution, but we warmly welcome the debate and the wishes. I also expect parties other than the proposers' and the Social Democrats to be interested in promoting cycling and the conditions for it, so I would suggest that we jointly formulate a report in the Committee on Transport, which can incorporate our common intentions. And I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left and say that he is sitting right next to me and therefore cannot say what the Radical Left thinks of this resolution, but I have been informed that the Radical Left cannot support the motion, but I hope that the Radical Left will help to make a report in the Committee on Transport. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161417	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161423	Thank you, sir. President. Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen for the kind words about the proposal. It is good that we are having this debate, and I can hear that there is already a lot that is gathering us here, and that is why I welcome the announcement that we are trying to land it in a report that can provide a fine working basis for our forthcoming negotiations. Sir. Thomas Jensen spoke a little about the potential of electric bicycles: that they increase the range for people, and that suddenly there will be some completely different opportunities to commute over larger distances. What does Mr. Thomas Jensen we have to do to unlock that potential? So, is it enough to build some better bike paths, super bike paths, etc., or is there anything else to do if we really want to exploit the enormous potential there is for more commuters who bike?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161516	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161517	That's a very good question. I think that we should have that discussion in a negotiating room, because there are perhaps some instruments in other policy areas, it might be sensible to look at whether, within a good economic framework, we could use them. Because it may well happen that there is something economic in this and that it would be an instrument that would make that there were more who could see themselves jumping from the car and over on a bike. So in this way I think that is something we should try to discuss and investigate. And yes, if we succeed with it and get even more on the bikes, it would be positive that we were going to look at even more super bike paths around, simply because the congestion on the bike paths will increase and therefore there must be more room for cyclists. So that would be a really, really positive result of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161606	Thank you to the rapporteur. I shall now give the floor to the next rapporteur in a few moments, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161635	The Minister and the previous rapporteur have already described what this is about, namely that it is being proposed to create a national bicycle strategy so that you can get some knowledge of what is of bicycle paths today, i.e. a mapping of where the need is for new investments or improvements to already existing bicycle paths. Then you can make such a priority list of recommendations based on it, and I actually think that sounds like a good proposal. I actually think that you have a good overview of what you have in the municipalities, and I actually think you have it in the Vejdirektoratet in relation to the state. But where there could be some contexts, or where the need could be, I actually think it would be very good to have an overview of the whole thing also just to get the old bicycle strategy from 2007, what can you say, led up to date. I think that makes sense. And I do not really hear any opposition from those who have been on the platform before me either. There are undoubted advantages in this, that is, people get more exercise; it gives increased health; we can reduce the congestion problems in the big cities if people take the bike more; and it's good for the climate. So there are, in fact, only positive things to say about it. Part of the debate is that these new possibilities with typical electric bikes can make it spread out so that it is not only in the very large cities where this can be an alternative, but also in the province where you can have a little longer to work; there it can be an alternative to the car that you can use an electric bike, because then you may not be quite as burdened with wind that we are struggling with in the area I come from in Jutland. After all, it means less, and the distance is also something that you can understand more easily if you know that you can get a little assistance from the electric motor. So I think it's super good. So I can only give the full support of the Danish People's Party. I think this is a good proposal which can provide some knowledge that we can jointly use when we are going to do these transport negotiations, where I think it is quite obvious that some funds are being set aside for this, i.e. some bicycle trail pools, or what we usually call them. I think that sounds like a sensible thing. Whether it should end in a report, we must look at it as well as we can see ourselves in the vote, but if it is voted on as it stands, we clearly expect to vote 'yes'. But we can also go the other way, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161852	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161855	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær for the fully-toned support from the Danish People's Party. There's a lot of evidence that this is going to be a report we're going to try to land it in. But I'd like to dwell on something central that Mr. Mr Flydtkjær pointed out that this was the link between the state road network and the municipal road network, because that is the problem now. Well, the state has its plans, and the municipalities have their own plans, and that's exactly what's at the heart of this proposal. It's that we get an overview of it across. For cyclists, they don't really care if they're driving along a state road or a municipal road, as long as they're safe to drive. And that's the mapping we don't have. And it's not nuclear physics; it's a matter of the Road Directorate writing out to each municipality: Would you be kind enough to send in a map of the cycle paths you have and what category they are in. Then you have it mapped out, and then we have the overall national picture. So it is not a very big exercise, but an important exercise, that we get the connection for once. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for paying attention to that aspect. I think that's the core of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211161956	Well, I can just confirm that it is only good to get that overview, so we have a background in terms of putting some funds into future traffic investment, so that we can see what the need is. Because it doesn't help that we put a billion. kr. of, if the need and the good winnings cost 2 billion. kr. So I think it's perfectly obvious that we're gonna get this chart done, and it doesn't necessarily have to take a long time. Because I actually think you have a knowledge of it out there, but it's about getting it together, so we have a piece of material.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162023	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Anne Valentina Berthelsen of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162044	Thank you. Again, I would very much like to congratulate the rapporteur of the Left on a proposal, Mr President. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. It's amazing how good ideas are pouring out from you today. We in the SF are really happy about that. And in the SF we are generally incredibly fond of cycling that is also why we together with the other support parties and the government, for example. has set aside some money for bike paths etc. in the Finance Act, which we hope will soon be implemented. It is quite important, when we talk about cycling, that we make investments in modernisation, in new bicycle sections, in creating better conditions for cyclists. And that's why money has to go with it; I'd like to give it to the cycling minister if that's what he was called right in we're going to find in the upcoming infrastructure negotiations. That, of course, also obliges me to say to the Minister for Bicycles, because we have reasonably high expectations of a minister who calls himself the Minister for Bicycles, in relation to how much money can be found for this purpose. But I really think that the idea of creating a national bicycle strategy is very good. So I think we should try to put a report on it here in committee, as we did with the previous proposal, and see if we can agree on how we should do it here, because I think that benefits everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162216	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162220	I have to sign for that praise; it is not every day that you get so much praise from the SF. You can get really worried, but now I think it's well-intentioned that I'm actually pretty sure is the case here, and of course we're happy about that. I would also like to sign off on the fact that the SF has helped to allocate more than 0.5 billion. kr. under the Financial Act. We are not part of it for other reasons, but I would like to sign for it, because I think that is a very good start. It's just not enough. I mean, if we're gonna go all around the country where we have the challenges, then we're gonna have to move on, and that's why I'm glad it looks like we're gonna be able to get together, that a robust bag of money needs to be set aside for this. But we need to know what we are doing, and that is why we also need a mapping and a strategy. But thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162303	You're welcome. And that is quite correct when Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says 0.5 billion. kr. We shouldn't have enough billions if it was up to the SF, and I hope so. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen will be supporting when we get into these infrastructure negotiations. Bike paths are also asphalt, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen likes to speak in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162331	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from the Enhedslisten, who will be allowed to attend in a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162349	This is the hottest table in Denmark, I think! First of all, I would like to thank the Left for putting cycling on the agenda in the Danish Parliament today, because while the number of Danes who cycle falls, the pressure on the Danish roads increases. In Enhedslisten we see the bike as a strong alternative to the car, but it requires both massive investment in several bike paths and a national cycling strategy with clear goals to get more Danes on the bike for the benefit of the climate and public health and to reduce congestion on the roads. That is why I am very pleased that, for a start, the Enhedslisten managed to allocate 520 million. kr. on the 2021 Finance Act for new bicycle paths on state roads and for municipal co-financing of bicycle projects. However, as has also been said by several other rapporteurs, much more is needed. In the Enhedslisten we see this motion for a resolution as a strong basis for a very large and multi-annual pool of bicycle initiatives, I hope. And it is my very clear expectation that it will be one of the results of the forthcoming negotiations on green mobility. Last time the bourgeois were in power, they set aside in their infrastructure plan 1 billion. kr. to cycling. I guess they were supposed to feel lubricated over 10 years. I hope that with this resolution the Left has gradually realised that if the bicycle is to be a green and attractive means of transport, much more needs to be done. And I would also like to say that, if it were up to me, in the forthcoming negotiations on green mobility, 10 billion will have to be allocated. kr. to create a fine-meshed bike path throughout Denmark, i.e. ten times as much as the Left has previously been willing to set aside. The Enhedslisten fully shares the idea of creating a national cycling strategy that can systematically map both the quality and quantity of the current cycling infrastructure that we have clarified and prioritised where further cycling paths are needed and that we have examined the potential of cycling for both the climate and public health. At the same time, I would like to call for the future national bicycle strategy to also contain very clear strategic objectives. It could be that one third or perhaps more of all commuting trips in Denmark will be made by bicycle in 2030. It could also be a clear objective that more of the passenger transport kilometres should be carried out by bicycle. Today the figure is barely 3 to 4 per cent. All in all, I think that the Left has today made a very good proposal which can help realise the yet undissolved potential of getting more on the bike. I am therefore also quite sure that we can find a joint report which will make a national bicycle strategy part of the future infrastructure negotiations, and I hope that the Left will help to push for more money for bicycle infrastructure when we sit down at the negotiating table shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162651	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162655	I'd like to sign Mr. Simpson's letter. Rasmus Vestergaard for the positive reception, it is not every day that we get it from the Enhedslisten for any proposal, and for the will to be included in a report that we can then debate here afterwards. However, there is one thing I cannot give such a commitment to. I think sir... Rasmus Vestergaard mentioned the figure of 10 billion, it is certainly very ambitious, and I cannot promise the Left will be able to help find that. We'll be ambitious, but I can't promise 10 billion. There must also be money for motorways. So that's why it's a very big number. But we will be ambitious, because we must put action behind the words here, and that is why I want to hear: What will Enhedslisten give priority to the money we spend? Should it be for infrastructure, city, country, or what are the priorities of the Enhedslisten within that, if we now succeed in finding a lot more money for cycling?
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162746	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162748	Thank you for the question. So, my goal is to create a fine-meshed bike path system in Denmark, so you can move around from A to B, virtually no matter where you live in Denmark, in a safe way, and that at the same time we strengthen the main lines, i.e. the super bike paths, which want to transport a lot of people to the big cities, as an alternative to queue by car.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162813	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we will welcome the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162828	Thank you very much. One can hope that this platform will get some oil in week 7, it's probably needed. We Conservatives love to cycle, and the more Danes we can get on the Danish bike paths, the better. It's healthy for the individual, and it's good for our environment. So many thanks to the Left for making another sensible proposal. I am also pleased that the Minister is proposing a broad agreement in this area, and some of the points that could be taken into account were, after all, to maintain and expand the intelligent work of creating super bike paths where cyclists can travel safely and well. Super bike paths are, in principle, roads without cars, one could expand especially the work in and around the smaller cities so that safe school paths can be created right up to school. The bid from the Enhedslisten of 10 billion. kr. I think I may be a little bit fresh, I think I will put it that way, but whatever it is, we support the proposal. It would be great if we could get together all the way across the middle of this proposal, and I understand that in a report. We want wide-ranging cooperation, we do so wholeheartedly, which is why, of course, we support the proposal and look forward to seeing the report that may follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211162951	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Niels Flemming Hansen Now I will take my car and drive to Jutland). Have a good trip. We welcome Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative as next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211163011	Thank you, President. I have heard that all ministries have such an office, where there is a sign outside the office, where it says: here we make excuses for rejecting good motions for resolutions. It is a well-known fact that, as a principle, a government will never vote in favour of a motion for a resolution tabled by the opposition. If a resolution is to be put through, one must have an incredibly strong proposal, and then a majority must be found outside the government. And that happens every now and then, for example. when the alternative got medical cannabis through; citizens' proposals and the other parties also succeeded in doing so occasionally, but it is certainly not everyday. With this proposal they have had fairly easy conditions in the office to find excuses for not supporting the resolution. You have said: just say that we are doing this in advance; we are doing it anyway; we are doing this study in connection with the infrastructure negotiations that are coming. So life goes its way. However, the proposals often have some justification, sometimes a very great justification. I think that is the case today, partly because a lot of good ideas are being discussed on the subject in question, i.e. a strategy to support cycling at national level in Denmark, partly because I am also sure that this debate has meant that the pre-legislative feasibility study will be even more thorough, for example. compared to mapping our bike paths around Denmark. Of course, what can be used for such a discussion is to come up with some good ideas on the subject. In the alternative, of course, we also have good ideas to ride a bike and we love to ride a bike. We ride a lot. My employees cycle everything they can, and when I call them in the morning, they are often on the bike. We all probably know that, i.e. how almost impossible it is to talk to a cycling person. However, in any case, we believe that, firstly, with a new cycling strategy, we must give priority to bicycle commuters, but also to good routes in nature, as well as more bicycle paths and super bike paths that can bind the areas together and reduce air pollution and strengthen public health. In particular, we need to expand the network of super bike paths so that more people gain easier and faster access to a car-free everyday life. Super bike paths have turned out to be something that works. Figures from the capital region's super bike paths show an increase in bike traffic when a route is upgraded to super bike path. The number of bike commuters on super bike paths has increased by 23 percent, and up to a quarter of the new bike commuters are former drivers. When more people choose the bike, it creates more space on the roads, better climate and better health for the individual cyclist. The largest increase is seen on the Farum route, where an increase in the number of cyclists has been measured by 68 per cent since the route became super bike path in 2013. It is therefore incredibly important that with a potential new cycle strategy or feasibility study, or what it will be called in the report, we have a thorough study of where there is potential to build more cycle paths and super bike paths. Secondly, you can increase the incentive to jump on the bike by being able to pay for cycling at work. The alternative would therefore like to make a bicycle allowance for bicycle commuters. It must reward those who take the sustainable and healthy transport choices of everyday life. This can be done in concrete terms by lowering the limit on when cyclists can benefit from driving allowances. Today you have to commute at least 24 km in a day, whether you ride or otherwise, in order to obtain a driving allowance. We will lower the limit to 12 km if you choose the bike. According to calculations from the Ministry of Transport, society earns 7 DKK each time we cycle 1 km rather than drive 1 km by car. The bicycle allowance will therefore be a good investment for society and a good investment in the future. If it goes so far as to put this proposal to the vote, then the alternative will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211163426	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Please, sir. Torsten Gejl to contribute to the despriting of the most desprited speaker's chair? That's good. In the meantime, we will welcome Mrs Susanne Zimmer as our next rapporteur. Here you go. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211163456	A bicycle strategy is an obvious good thing. More cyclists and therefore fewer drivers will help to promote public health because it causes less air pollution. We all know very well that cycling is healthy. Moving reduces the risk of having a wide range of diseases, for example: diabetes 2, heart disease and several forms of cancer. In fact, society saves 8 kroner. per mileage, which is being driven, and that saving can of course be used to promote good bicycle conditions. As stated in the motion for a resolution, 47 per cent have. by the Danes under 10 km at work, and if you can get them on bike instead, there are some low-hanging fruits to harvest. CO 2 2 There are plenty of options. More super bike paths can be established, more bike paths in the cities, and perhaps it can even be so good that we can get the cars out of the cities so that there is only goods transport left. It could allow room for cyclists, plenty of space, and it can provide room for nature. There are also many other things. For example: you could also make better bicycle parking options at the railway stations and perhaps with charging options for the electric bikes. This step is a small step in the right direction to convert our transport area. It is positive that the proposal stresses the importance of cooperating locally with local authorities and interest organisations; that national mapping should make it easier to take a holistic decision that goes across municipal boundaries, so that we do not forget some municipalities out there, or that the mapping depends on the priorities of each municipality; that it is proposed that the preparation of the national cycling strategy should take place in an interministerial working group, which hopefully will work to ensure that it will not just be something on paper, but that we will actually have a wholehearted and ambitious effort to set a proper framework for bicycle conditions and the bicycle culture in Denmark. However, in the Free Greens, we would also like to emphasise that we would very much like to look at other tools that are being put into use in order to promote bicycle commuting. We would very much like to change the driving allowance in order to commute to and from work, so that a proper and ambitious framework is also put in place to promote cycling commuting. Right now, when you drive by car at state rates, you will get DKK 3.52. per kilometers, but if you drive a bike, you get 54 cents a year. kilometers. Free Greens would like to change the tariffs so that the bicycle allowance is increased or so that the two transport options are at least equated. Our proposal was approved in the City of Copenhagen last year, so we would very much urge that the mapping of infrastructure should also examine how such a change in national tariffs might look, so that the purpose of this proposal will actually become a reality and will have the desired effect on climate, environment, health and well-being. There are already many suggestions and experiences on how to promote bicycle commuting with relatively light economic incentives. There is a proposal from the Danish Cyclist Federation, from the Heart Association and from the Danish Cancer Society. The tax Minister replied in 2016 that an increase in the cycling allowance to the low driving allowance would not have significant socio-economic consequences. In the further work on the report, I hope that we can draw on experience from abroad, among other things. England, Holland and Belgium. Free Greens support this fine proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211163856	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we would like to welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211163912	Thank you for that, President. I think this has been a very good debate. In other words, there are many debates in this Chamber where we are focusing heavily on what divides us; blades are crossed so that it goes, and that also belongs to democracy and the rule of the people. But here is a case in which I actually track a great deal of collection, and I think that is really liberating. Well, when you look at the people's rule, there's such a myth that we don't do anything but fight in here. Here we have an example of something where we can agree and where there are a lot of common denominators: the promotion of cycling. I think that's really good. I think someone was surprised at that, I heard that it was the Left who brought this motion for a resolution which said: what on earth is the Left now beginning to talk about cycling? That highway and car lot! Have they become a bunch of freaks now, or what? No, it is quite natural for the Left to promote cycling, because the bicycle helps to give us freedom, freedom of movement, and even in a healthy way. The bike is certainly part of liberal politics, so you don't have to be surprised that the Left is now making this proposal. The bike just can't stand alone. We also need cars and trains and all the other good means of transport we have in our society, but the bicycle is important. In fact, I was inspired to make this resolution in the so-called Cycling Policy Think Tank, where I know several of my colleagues are with, and where there was one of the talented people working with the promotion of cycling, who said that she thought it was quite grotesque that, as one of the leading cycling nations in the world, we did not have a comprehensive mapping of what we really have of cycling infrastructure and what quality it has. We don't. Of course the Vejdirektoratet has a map. We have seen this in the 2014 cycle strategy where you have some maps and so on, but then it's really every municipality for itself, and so we need this mapping across the country, in terms of what we have of bicycle infrastructure. And that's something that's easy to do in these computer times. It is just to get it done and then put one to be a ropekeeper on it, and it would be natural if it were the Road Directorate in interaction with all the municipalities. Then we would have it mapped out, and that could then be rolled once every two or every three years, so that we always have a fresh basis for decision-making. That's kind of the core idea of this, because I think we'll get more for the money when we have that overview. There is the 2014 bicycle strategy that is excellent, but a lot has happened since then. Well, there's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... have been built some bike paths, and that is good, but new technology has also come and some completely new opportunities for cyclism; commuting has been mentioned using electric bikes, which gives a much greater range. That is why we need an update of that strategy, and it is perfect for us now to enter a traffic negotiation, where I foresee that, and that is also what the Minister announces that cycling will be one of the themes. And, of course, we have the arguments; everyone has made them: it is public health, it is climate arguments about less CO2, less congestion, etc. Then I think there is a particular area of action that I am not sure anyone has mentioned, but now I am doing it, and this is about our schoolchildren. I live in a lovely little town called Ans, located in Central Jutland north of Silkeborg. There's gonna be a lot of people riding every morning with their kids by car. That's too bad. Well, I think we should try to have the attitude in Denmark where we say that one of the children's duties is to ride to school. It's a really good thing, and then you get it in from childhood, if you have to say so, and it sometimes hangs around for the rest of your life. It has to be the norm. Of course, there can be storms and things like that that make you drive your kids to school. This must be decided; it is the decision of the individual family. But the main trend should be that children bike to school, where they say: Now you're big, now we're going to buy a bike, and you're going to bike to school, and Dad, Mom or Grandpa is going with you for the first 3-4 days, so you can go and find out where it's dangerous. Well, I really think it could be a field of action • it also has a long-term effect • which we could put in place in such a strategy. I think that would actually resonate in many places. But it also requires that the children have a safe school path. For example: there is the town of Daugbjerg west of Viborg, where there are many children who would like to ride to school in Mønsted, but it is therefore a heavily busy state road that is not very wide. So this is an example of some schoolchildren being driven by car because it is simply too dangerous to drive there by bicycle. I drove there with Klaus Bondam of the Cyclist League, and we didn't feel very comfortable about it, but at least we got there, as we can see. But it's not a place to send little schoolchildren out by bicycle. So this is an example of the fact that if we want to have it there with more schoolchildren, for example, having to ride a bicycle, then we have to invest where there are such dangerous roads. Therefore, a mapping and a strategy could be really good, and it should not only be such a quantitative mapping where you say that here we have bike path, so here is the sacred grave well preserved, because there is a big difference in the quality of the bike paths. Some are such narrow ones that are not very safe, and others are wide, so two christian bicycles can pass by each other, and then we have bicycle highways. Bicycle highways are also really exciting as such, some corridors that can facilitate commuting into and out of busy cities, so that is of course something that we must focus on, and which is on the rise, not least here in the metropolitan area, as something that has a great and positive effect. Then, as several speakers have said, there is the socio-economic aspect. There is a very good economy for society in promoting cycling. COWI has made some calculations for the Ministry of Transport, which documents that there are also major socio-economic gains to be made. So we have to get up on the iron horse, both literally and figuratively. We also have a lot to do about public transport hubs. It is a pity that in many places you cannot find a parking lot for your bike at a railway station. In other words, we may have solved some of the problem by adopting legislation a few weeks ago, which is about the fact that there is now better access to the removal of all the bicycles that stand and are dead, if that is the case; they have been standing there for months and filling up. They have to go away and be auctioned off, and that's what we're gonna be able to do now. So we have taken steps to solve that problem, but we must undoubtedly have more capacity to achieve that interaction between modes of transport. Because it can't stand alone, separately. It is part of a wider context called green mobility. All in all, I would like to thank you for a very good debate. I think many ideas have emerged today. I am glad that it seems that we can land it here with a report that embraces virtually all parties. I think that is very, very positive, and I would like to put my mind at rest in order to draw up a draft, which is about to hit the dial, and then we can adjust it back and forth until we can all see ourselves in it and then get it adopted, that is. in the Transport Committee. This will provide a sound basis for the forthcoming traffic negotiations, which will hopefully come soon. At least we are all keen on it; as far as cycling is concerned, we know exactly what is needed and what we want. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211164622	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210211164645	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 23 February 2021 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
