ParlaMint-DK_20210518130006	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130025	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. You have to check if it's your name that's on the panel. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 120 by Bjørn Brandenborg (S), Signe Munk (SF), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. For voting 53 (S, V (by mistake), SF, RV, EL and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), against voting 44 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, Inger Støjberg (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and 1 KF (by technical recording error)), neither for nor against voting 0. Proposal for adoption No V 120 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 121 by Tommy Ahlerne (V), Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130148	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130154	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 79 (S, V, SF, RV, EL (by mistake), KF, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), against 8 (DF (by mistake), EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 11 (DF, NB and Inger Støjberg (UFG)). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130230	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130239	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 4 (NB and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130340	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Inger Støjberg does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130405	I am fundamentally opposed to the genital mutilation of healthy male children, because I do not believe that life-changing interventions should be carried out on healthy children. In principle, it should be the case that every person has the right to decide for himself over his own body, and therefore a circumcision should not take place unless there is a medical justification for it and before the man is of age. At that time, of course, you can decide whether you want to be circumcised or not. Nevertheless, the question is complicated. It is filled with emotions and dilemmas, and that is why I have tabled an amendment to this bill. The amendment is about banning the genital mutilation of male children in Denmark who are older than 8 days. When I suggest this, there are a number of reasons for it, both health and ethical, but not least because Danish politicians promised in the post-war period that we will always protect Danish Jews and their ability to practice their religion. This is an undertaking that I will not fail. Let me be quite clear: although I am fervently opposed to circumcision of healthy male children, I do not want to threaten the existence of Jewish society in Denmark. On the other hand, I would like to set up legislation to enable the Jews to live out their beliefs, but at the same time to reduce the health risks associated with a circumcision, namely by banning the genital mutilation of children older than 8 days, unless there is something health-care that says otherwise. The religious circumcision of the Jews takes place on the eighth day. This is because they follow the book of Genesis from the Bible, which clearly states that it is on that day, not later, that the child is to be circumcised. The Muslims do not circumcise at a fixed time in the boy's life. It should only be before puberty occurs, and this means in practice that it can happen on much larger children than infants, and this often happens when the boy is a 6-7 year old, but it is actually also seen shortly before puberty. A late circumcision can be problematic. It is medically proven that there is a greater risk of complications, and at the same time it may be a traumatic experience for the boy. Several studies show that the smaller the child, the less the risk of surgery. For example, the 2010 WHO report and also a large US register study show that complications occur less frequently among newborns and children under one year of age than among older children during a circumcision. In addition, it is of course important whether the person carrying out the circumcision has knowledge and experience and whether hygiene is good. The WHO considers that all three factors, i.e. a young age, training and hygiene, have a positive impact on reducing the complication rate of circumcision. Unfortunately, in a report from 2020, the Danish Agency for Patient Safety could announce that in the Muslim environments there is not always a willingness to pay the DKK 2,000-3,000 that a circumcision requires in order to get a good clinical framework and trained staff. Overall, therefore, it makes good sense to tighten up and set an 8-day limit on when a child can be circumcised, also because it is likely that a time limit on the legality of a circumcision will probably mean that fewer boys are circumcised.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130750	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130800	I take the floor because Mrs Inger Støjberg claims that it is better for young boys to be circumcised before they reach 8 days of age than later. In this area, as in so many other areas, it seems that you can find the medical declarations and the research that you would prefer to lean on, and Mrs Inger Støjberg leans against something that claims that it is better for a child to be circumcised before the eighth day. I would appeal to Mrs Inger Støjberg to use her common sense and then answer the question: does Mrs Inger Støjberg think it would be better for a small child to have an open wound on her penis in a diaper filled with urine and feces than it is for the child to be sown later, where the child does not wear a diaper with urine and feces?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130848	Well, I'm totally leaning on, for example. The WHO report of 2010 and also the large register study carried out in the United States, which has just looked at the cases that may be involved, show clearly that it is better to circumcise at an early age than later.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130913	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130914	Yes, and Mrs Inger Løjberg then leans again against the research which confirms what she wants to say because she wants to exempt Jews from a ban on the genital mutilation of boys, but wants to ban it for Muslims. But I would again appeal to the common sense of Mrs Inger Løjberg, in case one exists: does Mrs Inger Løjberg think it is better for a small child to have an open wound on her penis down in a diaper filled with urine and feces than to have wounded later when the child is no longer wearing diapers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518130945	The other way around, you could ask Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, whether he believes in WHO studies or whether it's just something, sir. Ole Birk Olesen himself thinks or thinks or believes. This is not, in fact, a ban on circumcision for Muslims. You just have to do it a little earlier in a boy's life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518131007	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I should like to know if there are any more who wish to speak on the amendments. That does not seem to be the case, and that is why we are going to vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518131023	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (Inger Nøjberg (UFG)), joined by a minority (DF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 11 (DF, Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 87 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstention 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, SF, IA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 38 (Hans Christian Schmidt (V), DF, SF, RV, EL, Mads Andersen (KF), Per Larsen (KF), NB, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)) voted against 59 (S, V, KF and Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstained from voting 1 (RV (by mistake)). The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518131123	The debate then concerns the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As that is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote. I understand that Inger Løjberg also wishes to comment on the proposal as a whole. Then we wait a little while for the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518131150	As I said, I am fundamentally opposed to the genital mutilation of healthy male children for the reasons I mentioned earlier. Having said that, I am also fully aware that a ban would threaten the opportunities for the development of Jewish communities in Denmark, and I do not want that. My love for Danish Jews is very great. I would therefore like to set up the legislation in a way that allows Danish Jews to continue to live out their beliefs and at the same time reduce the health risks associated with circumcision. My proposal is therefore to ban the genital mutilation of children older than 8 days. It pains me that Jews to this day have been persecuted all over the world. Even in Denmark Jews are persecuted today. Jewish schools, institutions and the synagogue are guarded. They are because they are targets of Islamist terror and of right-wing extremism. We all remember the terrible terrorist attack in Copenhagen in February 2015, when the coward Omar El-Hussein tried to penetrate the synagogue in Krystalgade to commit a massacre of a Jewish confirmation. On his way he met the volunteer guard and completely Dan Uzan, who prevented the deed, but paid with his life. Harassment, fear and persecution are something that many Danish Jews live with daily. In November 2019 Berlingske brought an article series on how Jewish children are being persecuted by Muslim children in primary schools in the Copenhagen area. These are painful accounts of the everyday fear of Jewish children. The Jews in Denmark have always adapted to the Danish way of life, and they have lived in peaceful coexistence with the rest of Danish society. They have conscientiously adapted and practiced their religion without demanding that the rest of us take special care. In other words, the Jews, quite unlike many Muslims in Denmark, have completely adapted themselves to Danish society. They have never posed a cultural or security danger. They have never committed terror in the name of religion. They've never threatened for good. They have never tried to compel us to live according to their precepts. I have infinite respect for the contribution the Jews have made to Danish society as Danish compatriots. At the same time we live in a country where, in the post-war period, on top of Nazi systematic Jewish persecution, we promised each other that we would always protect the Danish Jews. It is a commitment that I will never fail, even if it is given by politicians who are generations older than me. That is why I was very pleased when this very point of view was highlighted by Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen. She said very clearly that the reason why Social Democracy will not vote for a ban on the genital mutilation of boys is because one feels a great obligation to look after the Danish Jews. The Prime Minister said, among other things: thus in September 2020, and it is a quote: "Therefore we have made a promise to look after the Jews, take care of the Danish Jews, and I intend to stand by that promise, and therefore a ban is not the right path. It is, moreover, a statement made by the Chairman of the Left, Mr President of the Commission. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, quickly backed up. Both of them made their announcement after the chairman of the Jewish Society in Denmark, Henri Goldstein, last year drew up a very gloomy picture of what a ban on circumcision in Denmark would mean for the Jews in this country. He then said that Danish Jews would then face the greatest crisis since they had to flee the country to Sweden during World War II. He predicted that a ban on circumcision would mean that the Jewish community in Denmark would slowly but surely perish. After all, we are in a political situation in which the present citizens' proposal for a ban on the genital mutilation of male children will be voted out, and therefore it will continue to be possible to circumcise male children in Denmark. As mentioned above, I am fundamentally opposed to circumcision, but at the same time I want Danish Jews to live out their religion in Denmark. We owe them that. This, in conjunction with the health-care arguments about early circumcision, is why I have tabled an amendment which would then, instead, prohibit the circumcision of boys older than 8 days and ensure that it should, of course, be done under necessary anesthesia and under orderly conditions by a person with experience. I hope that the government in particular will join it and look at these things in the future so that we can all support the Jewish community in Denmark and show the respect that we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518131737	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any markings for short remarks. Then I understand that sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518131755	Thank you. After all, every human being's body and integrity should be inviolable. That should be the starting point, I think, for this discussion, no matter what religion one may have. We are living at a time when a parliamentary election is being won under the slogan of the Prime Minister of the children, which is why I think it is appropriate that we go into more detail and discuss a proposal such as this, which is, of course, about children's rights. Who's more innocent than a little kid? Who needs more help than a little child? Who more needs the protection that we 179 are the only ones who can give than a small child? I recognise that, if you look at it, there are individual rights against some collective rights............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But in our society, we usually boast that when group rights trample on the rights of the individual, we stand on the side of the individual, and especially when they are children of no age, innocent children. That is why I find it difficult to come to a different conclusion from having to support this proposal, which a massive part of the Danish population also supports, and that is why they have pushed it into the Parliamentary Chamber through the sensible citizens' proposal system which the alternative had in the past been implemented here in Parliament. We know that it will not be adopted in a moment. We know that. But that is why it is still good that it comes in this Chamber. Firstly, the debate has only made party after party has moved, so there are more who now support the proposal than there was before it came, and secondly, I believe and sometimes you have to be careful what you say, and I will not eat a hat that if we look further ahead, this proposal will be adopted at some point. It is like a whole series of ethical questions: if you are to beat your children, if you are to adopt homosexuals, women must be priests, and what do I know? It always starts with opposition, because we don't usually do that, religion says we have to do what we have always done, culture says we have to do what we have always done, but at some point in one of the world's most modern countries, modern societies I think that the individual and the child's rights will win over collective religious and cultural group rights. Children should not be subjected to pain, children should not be subjected to irreversible interventions if we can avoid it. We should be united in this. The Danish people are united in this question. Now I think that the Folketing should stand with the people and then ensure the rights of the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518132114	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There is not, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518132125	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. 34 (DF, SF, EL, NB, LA, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Hans Christian Schmidt (V), Peter Juel-Jensen (V), Anne Honoré Østergaard (V), Katrine Robsøe (RV), Lotte Rod (RV), Stinus Lindgreen (RV), Mads Andersen (KF) and Per Larsen (KF), voted against 62 (S, V, RV, KF, Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Marie Krarup (DF), Søren Espersen (DF) and Peter Seier Christensen (NB)), neither for nor against voting 1 (Inger Løjberg (UFG)). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518132210	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518132236	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518132242	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority or on Amendment No 1. 28 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 23 votes (SF, RV, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 73 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Løbberg (UFG)). It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-27, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.40. Please leave the Chamber in good order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518134016	The sitting is resumed. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 20 May 2021. First, we need the explanatory statement. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518134118	Thank you for that, President. I can make it pretty short. It is as rapporteur for the questioners that I am opening this debate that we are going to have today. It is a good tradition that we have had for many years. Unfortunately, it has then been prevented by a parliamentary election last year and covid-19 last year. Parliament believes that we should have the opportunity to debate the challenges and opportunities that we have here in the Kingdom Community, so I look forward to a very good debate and a very good statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518134154	Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the reply after we have been cleaned. Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518134215	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the questions. Today we are discussing the Kingdom community, and I have been looking forward to it. It is a good annual tradition that we unfortunately had to cancel last year when we were in the first wave of corona. Fortunately, we can now reunite and take the debate. It is therefore also an indication that we are in a much better place as far as the pandemic is concerned than we have done in the past, and in this context there is only reason to stress how fantastic it has been in both the Faroe Islands and Greenland in terms of covid-19. Of course, the pandemic has also affected the Kingdom community in many areas other than pure health, including when we look into the economy. It is true for Greenland and the Faroe Islands that this too is to a lesser extent than we see in many other countries. In the spring of 2020, the national government and Naalaksususut launched actions to contain the infection. This was effective and wise, but of course it has also meant a slowing down in economic activity. Health and the economy are linked, as we have seen. So effective action in relation to corona has also meant a less setback than what we might fear. This year, therefore, there is the prospect of high economic growth, especially in the Faroe Islands, but also in Greenland; employment is rising and unemployment is falling. It goes without saying that tourism has been particularly hard hit by travel restrictions, and good aid packages have been put in place here. Of course, public finances are also marked by the corona crisis. Lower revenue and higher expenditure lead to deficits in 2020, both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, and this year there is also the prospect of deficits. There are also longer-term challenges to ensuring fiscal sustainability. It comes, among other things. in both areas of the Economic Council, i.e. both in the Faroe Islands and the Economic Council in Greenland, and this has shown that demographic developments in both countries are pushing the public economy in the years to come. Of course, we have a dialogue on this with both the national government and the Naala Suisut on a continuous basis. It was a little bit about the current situation with regard to covid-19, but first of all congratulations on how well things have gone. After all, the Kingdom is a unique construction. Many around the world find it hard to understand. The rest of us welcome it. Three countries, three flags, three people. We each have our own identity and culture, we each have our own language and very, very large differences, not least in nature, geography and living conditions. There are plenty of differences we could talk about, but fortunately there is also a strong community. We are bound together for good and pity for our common history and not least the strong ties between very many friends and families. Today we have an open, trusting and respectful cooperation. We help each other, and we use each other's forces, and I urge that we continue to do so. It can be both in the big blade and in other specific areas, for example the effort in relation to exposed children in Greenland. This applies to vaccines, and we share experience when we talk about aid packages. In this way, we conduct a policy that benefits both the individual and the individual society in all parts of the Kingdom community. It can also be something very concrete when we ensure access to digital self-service solutions with CPR numbers and NemID when we talk about the Faroe Islands. After all, all of this must lead to a living, active and also a community of solidarity. When we strengthen the community, we also need to be able to discuss where things are going less well. There are boring chapters in our common history that we have a common responsibility to bring forward in the present. That is why, of course, I am also pleased that on 8 December last year I was able to give an official apology to the 22 Greenlandic children who were sent to Denmark in the early 1950s with very unfortunate consequences. We cannot change what has happened, but we can take responsibility, and I am glad there has been such broad support for that. Our unity is important for us to have a viable kingdom community, and it will only be as strong as we ourselves are. Therefore, we always need to break down the prejudices that may arise in a kingdom community. We have had the opportunity to talk about this several times in the Parliamentary Assembly. That is why we all welcome good ideas on how to spread knowledge of the Kingdom community, and this applies, of course, to all generations, but perhaps especially to our young people. There is something paradoxical about how many young people have been around in much of the rest of the world, i.e. before covid-19, but have not been around in our own kingdom community. We also face new challenges, major challenges. This is, of course, particularly true in relation to the entire Arctic region. Developments in the world around us make new demands on all of us, and we have to deal with the reality that exists, even when it goes against us. Russia strengthens its military capacity and has an aggressive behavior in many places. China is seeking access to resources and maritime routes and has openly announced that it wants to increase its influence on Arctic affairs. Fortunately, we also see increased commitment from our closest and most important allies, namely the United States, both politically and militarily, and I am very pleased about that. The Kingdom of Denmark, which means the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark, together constitute a central voice in Arctic affairs. We are a small player in relation to the traditional great powers, and it is of course important that there is no room for any relativism in relation to the great powers. It is the United States that are our allies, not others. After all, the United States and NATO constitute the whole foundation of the Kingdom's security. We have a common target for low voltage in the Arctic. That objective is put under pressure by others and, in my view, there is no room for naivety. I appreciate the Arctic capacity package. Here we have a special focus on improving the ability to monitor the large geographical area of the Arctic and the North Atlantic while strengthening the presence of the Defence. The Minister of Defence is currently in dialogue with the Faroe Islands' Home Rule Government about possibly establishing a radar in the Faroe Islands and has also talked to his new Greenlandic colleague about the elements of the capacity package. The package also places emphasis on elements that have wider civil applications for the benefit of the people, both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. The development of security policy that we are witnessing is a clear sign of the Kingdom community, as the visit yesterday by the American Foreign Minister, Mr Blinkens, shows. Several areas will have a security policy dimension. This applies to infrastructure, telecommunications and communications. This, of course, has a great deal of attention, both in the EU and NATO countries, and I welcome the fact that we in the Kingdom Community agree that we must take care of our freedom and our open and democratic society, and that we must therefore also be able to put in place a safeguard against those who do not want it well. This development of security policy can also challenge our good internal relations. For the new security policy reality may make it more difficult to distinguish between Faroese, Greenlandic and Danish responsibilities. We have to go with each other to find the right solutions. A concrete example of the new reality is the government's bill to strengthen the security of suppliers in the critical The Faroe Islands and Greenland have participated as observers in the working group behind the legislation, and we are now in dialogue about a legislative model that respects the division of competences in the Kingdom community, where the telecommunications area is taken home by both the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and where security policy is of course a responsibility here in Denmark. Developments will require even closer dialogue, even closer cooperation on both foreign policy, defence policy, security policy and the issues that might be related to it. That is why, of course, we in the government are only prepared to support that dialogue and close cooperation. That is why I am also looking forward to a Kingdom meeting here in June, where we will have the basis for establishing even closer and even more constructive cooperation. This is true both in relation to the Faroe Islands and in relation to Greenland. Today we are discussing the Kingdom community here in the Assembly Hall. It has many elements in it, and it often falters when we discuss the Kingdom community, with both big words and sometimes very emotional words. I hope that everyone will remember our long common history and the opportunities offered by a strong kingdom community to a community that will of course change over time, but in respect of what we all get out of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135206	Thank you, Prime Minister. We shall now proceed to a brief comment by each of the general rapporteurs who so wish. First, it's sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135212	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his statement. A few years ago, while Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister, he was at a meeting with several of us who are here, where he said that if Greenland issues a referendum on independence, Greenland is de facto out of the kingdom community. I would like to know whether the position, which was very clear, is therefore not to wait until after it is released, that when it is released, you are de facto out of the Kingdom community. My question is therefore whether the current Prime Minister shares the same view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135253	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135254	So, I know that no referendum has been announced on the part of Greenland, so I think that we should take the discussion in the situation where that wish arises.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135306	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go. Søren Espersen Is there only one question?). Yes, there is only one brief comment, and in the end the Prime Minister comes back to the normal rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135318	Thank you very much. And also thank you for your speech to the Prime Minister. Fortunately, there are a lot of people who understand this community structure, and in fact it is also a role model, especially for indigenous peoples in the Arctic. It is also sometimes important to remember, even in all such internal conflicts of interest that may well be. I would actually like to start with a very specific question about vaccines, because Denmark has chosen to give vaccines to Greenland and to the Faroe Islands. Priority has also been given to the islands in Denmark first. And I would really like to know if it is also something that you would like to give priority to Greenland and the Faroe Islands, so that they come forward a little faster, so that you can promote tourism in Greenland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135404	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135406	It is quite true that we have chosen, in the spirit of the Kingdom Community, to ensure that the vaccines come around throughout the Kingdom community. And that's a decision I'm incredibly happy about. I also understand that the vaccine rollout is going well. On the question of whether we should benefit from this, i.e. have fewer vaccines for a period of time in Denmark in order to be able to give the vaccines to other parts of the Kingdom community, I would suggest that we continue with the pro-rate model that we have chosen and which seems to me to be most fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135438	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135441	Thank you. I think the Prime Minister has mentioned many good points in his speech. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister speaks positively about the Kingdom Community and would like to strengthen and develop it and focus on how all three countries make the most of the cooperation. It is very important that we work to strengthen our kingdom community all the time. So thank you for that. I also think it is important that we stick to the fact that the Commonwealth is what it is, namely a construction in which the Danish Parliament and the Danish government, which is the government of the whole Kingdom community, have some tasks, and then the local self-governments have some tasks that they solve. Defence policy is, of course, a common task. It is not a Danish task, but a joint task. That is why I was surprised that last year the government announced that it was no longer the flag of the Kingdom that was supposed to be on the Sirius patrol and defended in Greenland, but now the Greenland flag also had to fly when the Commonwealth's defences traveled around. Greenland does not participate in the defence tasks at all, so why should that flag be there when the kingdom community has a flag that marks the common tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135604	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135605	It is quite true that about the kingdom community there is the Basic Law of the Danish Empire, and it is on the foundation where the kingdom community is to work and also develop, but exactly the word development is here crucial. When we look over the past many decades, we have seen a kingdom community that has developed quite a lot. After all, it does not tolerate comparison at all, how the kingdom community worked in the 70s and how the kingdom community works today. I think this is the natural starting point, namely that the kingdom community reflects the time that the kingdom community had to stand in, and there things move, and it is quite natural that it does in Denmark, it does in the Faroe Islands, it does in Greenland. I have not been very involved in the issue of the flag, but I understand that there has been a desire to use both flags, and I see no problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135658	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135701	I fully share the Prime Minister's pleasure or should we turn ourselves up to say enthusiasm but it is equally clear, and I hear from the Prime Minister, that it is necessary for us to develop the Kingdom Community at all times if it is to last. In other words, could I have the Prime Minister point out some such more specific areas where it can be seen that we need to modernise, democratise, upgrade the Kingdom community so that we can secure it more in the future? Could it, for example? be a document that describes in a new way the relationship between the three nations as a complement to the constitution? Or how does the Prime Minister see this opportunity to meet the many people who would like to see a little more speed on the road to independence? How do we keep up with the Kingdom community so that it will last?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135755	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135756	I think it is important to say that if there is any concrete desire for independence at some point, it is a matter for the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively, and I think that is a decision that must be taken respectfully in the two countries. I find it difficult to see such a legal path, which even complements our constitution. So, the Constitution is the Constitution, and there is nothing that can compete or even out or balance it according to temperament. So in my optics, we're on the Constitution. That is the framework for the operation of the Kingdom and our relationship with each other. And within that constitution we can then develop as the three countries think it best to do at the time when we are. As things stand here and now, I would like to point to the climate area as a very obvious area to work together on. Climate change is clear and the consequences are great. We have some very, very fine opportunities, both with our geography and the high political ambitions, such as: SF has supported here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135908	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518135914	I don't know why, but I've got a wrong place; fortunately not over on the other side, but kind of out to one side. Thank you for that and thank you for the floor and thank you for the oral part of the statement. The Minister made it very clear who our very best friends, our allies in the United States, etc. I now see more like the fact that there are three great powers in a wild rivalry at the moment and all three great powers are arming up in their own territory. I imagine that we tried to use some effort to create a fourth power in the eyes of the Nordic countries and went much more offensively in defending the basic principles of the Ilulissat Declaration on low-voltage, sustainability and taking into account those living in the Arctic. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether she sees no possibility in that we actually have a force there that is not triggered when the three great powers do, as they have always done, namely rival and spend both military and money and everything else to gain power in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518140021	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518140022	I mean, I don't share the superpower analysis. We have one nuclear alliance, and it's the United States. The build-up that we see and the increasing aggressive behaviour, including around the Arctic, I believe is necessarily due to other actors. So it can be said that I do not share the great power analysis. And, yes, the United States is, in the eyes of the government, absolutely and without comparison, the most important ally. The alliance between Europe and the United States in particular is the alliance in the world to ensure peace and stability and democracy. On the other hand, I very much agree with the words about sustainability and respect for the very, very special conditions that apply around the Arctic. And, yes, I believe that the Kingdom community must play a special and also significant role.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518140114	Then we'll thank the Prime Minister. And after a little cleaning, we start the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518140140	That's right, President. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Prime Minister for the statement. Of course, I welcome the opportunity to discuss our cooperation in the Kingdom community. With the American Foreign Minister's visit this week, the timing could hardly be better. At the same time, elections have just been held in Greenland, and let me immediately say congratulations to Greenland with the new government. The debate over the last few years has unfortunately been cancelled, as we discussed earlier, and therefore it is high time that we discussed what is close to us all, what we think is important, what is, after all, the basis of a strong Community, namely the Kingdom Community. I hope, of course, that we will have a good and open and constructive and thorough debate today, because I think that is really, really important. Speaking of the Corona, which some people mentioned, the past year has, as we know, been somewhat different than any of us had imagined. Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands have fought a brave battle against covid-19, both individually and jointly. Both Greenland and the Faroe Islands have far along the way managed to remain almost painless, which is quite impressive, and as few places have done so well. That's really impressive. On the other hand, the pandemic has hit the economies of the Faroe Islands and Greenland, not least because it has hit tourism. However, all three countries in the Kingdom have done better economically than feared and better than many other countries. We shall be delighted about this. And now we are faced with a major and important task in ensuring a responsible, fair and sustainable economic recovery in the wake of the pandemic. Fortunately, as the statement on the Commonwealth also mentions, this suggests that the economy is doing what is called a V curve. This means that because of the covid-19 there has been a massive dive by 2020, and then the economy is really starting to recover in 2021, hopefully to be normalized the following year. Cooperation in the Kingdom Community has, of course, also been hard challenged in some respects by the covid-19, especially as regards the opportunities to visit each other. Fortunately, in these times we have met digitally, we can do so across national borders, but it is never quite the same as looking each other in the eye and giving a good old-fashioned handshake. That is what we need in a community such as ours, namely that we see each other. This applies both to the day-to-day cooperation between our countries, but it also applies to the many people who have family and friends across the kingdom. It is not least these ties that help to bind the Kingdom community together that we must be aware of. Although in some areas the pandemic has challenged cooperation, it has also contributed to strengthening it. For example: We have had a good and close cooperation between the Danish, Greenlandic and Faroese authorities on both the fight against infection, the introduction of aid packages and the purchase of vaccines. The pandemic has once again reminded us of how closely linked our society is and how important it is to stand together, not least in difficult times. And now, hopefully, we are going towards brighter times. Social democracy would like to see even closer cooperation in the Kingdom community in the future based on trust and mutual respect. This applies particularly to foreign policy, security policy and defence policy, where there is already an ever closer coordination of the interests of the Kingdom community. For this very reason, for the first time ever, both the Faroe Islands and Greenland took part in the meeting with the former American Foreign Minister, Mike Pompeo, last summer, and this very week, of course, all three parties of the Kingdom are again taking part in a meeting with the new American Foreign Minister, Antony Blinken. The American Foreign Minister has given priority to visiting Denmark and Greenland relatively early after the accession of the new administration. So, of course, this shows that there is a growing geopolitical interest in the Arctic region. Social democracy wants to ensure low-voltage in the Arctic, unfortunately it also sees an increasing aggressive game in the region from both Russian and Chinese sides. Fortunately, the United States has come up with more, and the great-power rivalry that is taking place naturally challenges the cooperation of the Kingdom community, but at the same time also calls for stronger cooperation. We must stand together about our common interests in the Arctic, both within the Kingdom, but also with the United States, which is undoubtedly the main security ally of the Kingdom. That is why Social Democracy is also very pleased with the broad political agreement on an Arctic capacity package of 1.5 billion. kr, which was concluded back in February in close dialogue between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Fortunately, we parties in the Folketing, which are behind the agreement, agree that the Commonwealth is a special security and defence policy responsibility in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. At the same time, it has been essential for the Social Democratic Party that strengthened efforts in the Arctic and the North Atlantic should provide both military and civilian benefits. The framework agreement must therefore also strengthen defence rescue operations, emergency missions and environmental monitoring, fisheries control, climate monitoring, climate research, etc., which shows that, when we put our energies into and use each other's forces, we can solve our common and specific challenges. Finally, I would like to mention another important matter from the past year, which, as such, does not give rise to any real joy, but rather to reflection. Back in December, the Danish Government and Naalakkersuisut published the historical account about the 22 Greenlandic children, which the Prime Minister also mentioned in his statement, which was sent to Denmark in 1951. The investigation was followed by the official apologies of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Denmark, and that the letter was sent to the six living. If you read the investigation, you can only be deeply affected by the fate of the 22 children. Social democracy considers it important that we all know our common history in the Kingdom community, both the bright and the dark. The story of the 22 Greenlandic children is one of the dark chapters from which we must remember and learn. In order to strengthen our cooperation in the future, we must be able to reconcile ourselves with each other and the past and dare to face it. I therefore believe that the historical explanation and the Prime Minister's apology are an important step on the road to even better cooperation between Denmark and Greenland. The Kingdom Community is a unique construction in which the three countries are very different, but of course we share historical roots, and we have close ties between us people in the Kingdom Community, and we have a strong tradition of working together and finding good solutions in the Kingdom Community. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that our kingdom community benefits all our three countries. We want and work to strengthen cooperation and make it even more equal, respectful, trusting and constructive. This will benefit the populations of Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. With these words, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption which is on behalf of all parties in the Folketing, including, of course, the four North Atlantic mandates [S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, KD, IA, SIU, SP and JF]. It reads as follows: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement on the Commonwealth 2021. The Danish Parliament notes that, in the exceptional situation of covid-19, cooperation in the Kingdom community has also demonstrated its strength for the benefit of citizens and companies. The Folketing calls for close, constructive and equal cooperation so that the Kingdom community continues to develop and strengthen with respect for the values and diversity of the countries. The Danish Parliament notes that the development of security policy is also a feature of the Commonwealth. The Danish Parliament calls for the government to strengthen cooperation with the Home Government of the Faroe Islands and Naalaksususut in the foreign, security and defence policy area, respecting the division of competences in the Kingdom Community and cooperating in the Arctic in accordance with the principles of the Ilulissat Declaration. The Danish Parliament invites the Government to follow the economy of the Faroe Islands and Greenland and to cooperate on business development and reforms as well as climate initiatives if the Faroe Islands' Home Government and Naalaksuisut so wish. The Danish Parliament urges the government to update legislation on Danish responsibilities in the Faroe Islands and Greenland and to continue to work to resolve border barriers in the Danish community. • V 122). I look forward to a good debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141026	The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Now we have brief comments, and that is first Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141031	Thanks for the speech. Firstly, I would like to sign up for a good cooperation that Siumut has in relation to the Social Democracy. We appreciate that. The adoption text, which the Social Democratic Party has also helped to construct, states that the Folketing calls for the government to strengthen cooperation with the Home Government of the Faroe Islands and the Naalaksusut in the field of foreign, security and defence policy with respect for the division of competences within the Kingdom. For Siumut in the Folketing it has been a little bit concerned about what was meant by the division of powers. We respect the Constitution, of course, but the Constitution states that these very areas are only handled by Denmark. Should this be seen in the light of the desire for greater involvement of Greenland and the Faroe Islands? Or should it be seen in the light of the fact that one should respect that it is Denmark that has this competence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141121	I think it should be seen in the light of the fact that the Social Democrats and of course want to work towards greater involvement of Greenland and the Faroe Islands in health policy and security policy. And, of course, this must be seen within the legal framework that now exists. This is already happening now. We have already seen this in part of the statement from the Prime Minister and Prime Minister. So I do not see any obstacle to the fact that, of course, we think that this is a way of strengthening our community in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141158	Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam does not want to speak again, and then it is Mr Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141201	Thank you. Now the Socialist rapporteur read out the proposal for adoption in relation to the Ilulissat Declaration as the basis for our work in the Arctic. Nevertheless, he has recently voted in favour of our arming in Greenland and the Faroe Islands by 1.5 billion. kr. How is this in line with the low-voltage principle of the Ilulissat Declaration? I think it's a little yelling at each other and it's not going in the same direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141239	Well, there is no doubt that we have a responsibility to secure borders, including in the Commonwealth, and we are, of course, in close cooperation with our most important security allies, which are the United States in this case. And I do not see that it would be contrary to the Ilulissat Declaration to ensure that we know what is going on in the air and what is going on under water in the Arctic area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141306	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141307	Well, we are busy enough talking about other great powers arming up and that is quite unacceptable. Then we say to them, "Oh, ours is something else." It's something about us wanting to see what happens. Well, radars and stuff like that can be used for both. They can be used to control a rocket and a dangerous weapon, but they can also be used to monitor an area. And they can also be used in a civil context. It's really dual-use. So you cannot hide behind it; it is really also hardcore military armament that we make when we give so much money to arm up and clap the United States on the shoulder when they arm up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141346	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141347	No, I should just like to point out that the additional capacity package made for the Arctic area is defensive in other words. It is simply to know what is going on. This is, of course, something that the Kingdom is obliged to do, and, as I said, just to repeat myself, I cannot see that there is anything wrong with the Ilulissat Declaration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141410	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141412	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I would also like to express my thanks for the overall good cooperation with the government, and I hope, of course, that will be the case with Naala Suisut. So I'm very confident about that. I also think it is extremely positive that, with the cooperation that we had on vaccines and the covid-19 campaign, it has just been stressed that we can benefit from having this Kingdom community. And in the same way, when we talk about the experiment kids. Thank you so much for that apology. The next thing that stands for is a replacement, and it has to take its course. A nuance that I think is important when we talk about the United States, Russia and China is that we in Greenland also export a lot to Russia and China. So that is something one has to be aware of in the process that is going to be. On the Greenland side, we agree that the United States is a close ally, and we also agree that there are some concerns about Russia and China. How can we, like, ensure that our
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141521	Thank you. I am not aware of what to call it, the things that are being exported to Russia, in that case here. Nevertheless, this is something that should be done in cooperation between the government and the Naala Suisut. It is clear that if there are any obstacles in one way or another that you would like to see from Greenland, then the present government has only open arms in relation to the fact that you would of course like to discuss it. And, of course, I also assume that we would like to do so here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141552	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141553	Then I can tell the rapporteur that 20%. of Royal Greenland's exports go to China, while Polar Seafood, which is one of the major companies, sells for 300 million. kr. Russia every year. So it is significant amounts, one might say, in the Greenlandic economy. After all, we also have the same concerns about fiscal sustainability that the government also raises in the statement. So that is an consideration that we need to take, while, of course, we are also aware of the security situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141626	Thank you. This is where our strong community and the will to see each other as equal partners come into play. There is no doubt that the community we now have with the Kingdom Community is, of course, something we need to develop. And, of course, it is when we face challenges. And a challenge in that case here could be, for example. exports of fish to China and Russia respectively. This is something that I expect you to go with, of course, even when you have the debates that are now between the governments of the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141701	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we thank you. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518141722	Thank you for the floor. Today's debate on the Prime Minister's statement on the Kingdom Community and the corresponding enquiry debate shows a Kingdom community which, despite the covid-19, is in good shape. The parliamentary debate on last year's statement on the Kingdom community was unfortunately cancelled because of the covid-19. It was a pity because, in our view, in these years, the Kingdom Community is facing a number of challenges and opportunities that we so much need to discuss with each other. Precisely the handling of the covid-19 continues to draw traces through the Kingdom Community, but also makes clear the strong value of the cooperation in the Kingdom Community. Both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland and in Denmark, we have come a long way in handling the pandemic, and the Kingdom community has shown its value by being able to work together on everything from the purchase of protective equipment to a strong detection of infection. At present, the whole of the Kingdom community needs to get the economy back on track. We can do this better by working together and uniting resources, as illustrated by, for example: The Growth Fund and Denmark's Export Credit Guarantees, also for companies outside Denmark, which we have been able to read about in the report. We in the Left hope that in the coming years we will be able to have even closer cooperation in the field of business, particularly in relation to restarting the tourism sector across the national community, which in all three countries has had a tremendously hard time. This will be a major task in the years to come for Lattinget and Inatsisartut and the Danish Parliament. In this connection, let me also congratulate the new and re-elected members of Inatsisartut on the election last month, where Atassut, the Left's sister party in Greenland, also had a very good choice. We welcome this and look forward to the continued cooperation with them on how we can work together across the Kingdom community. We in the Left also hope that in the coming years we will be able to strengthen cooperation between Denmark and Greenland in those areas where it makes sense. Fortunately, in the Faroe Islands, the Left's second sister party, the Sambands party, has also continued to be highly respected and helps to ensure the framework and good economic development and good cooperation across the kingdom community. Over the past 10 to 20 years, we have seen how the Arctic region attracts more and more attention. Climate change creates new opportunities in the area, including new shipping routes, and the Arctic has also been the subject of increasing power rivalry. The US Foreign Minister, Anthony Blinkens, visited Denmark yesterday and visited Greenland on Thursday early in his term of office underlines this increasing importance in Greenland and the Arctic. The United States is one of the most important if not the most important allies for the Kingdom community, and it is therefore very pleasing that he gives priority to visiting, so that we can have a close and confidential dialogue on developments in the Arctic. On the left side, we see great opportunities to cooperate even more closely with the United States and the Biden administration to counter climate change, the security situation and the sustainable business development of the Arctic. That is also necessary. We can see that Russia is armed militarily in the Arctic, and in recent years a country like China has also shown great interest. It is of course important that we have a close and binding dialogue with our allies on how we deal with this situation. That is why we are very pleased with the agreement on an Arctic capacity package, and in order to anticipate the debate that was here earlier, we see it as a duty that we have a handle on what is happening on the territory of the Kingdom Community and as something that can actually help to bring the temperature down a little. The alternative to knowing for ourselves what is going on is enough that the great powers themselves will take that task upon themselves. And then we believe that there could be far more dangerous situations than if we take our own responsibility when we have control of what is happening on our own territory. We also believe that the great powers' interest in the area makes it clear why the Commonwealth of Kingdoms is an advantage in terms of security policy for all three kingdoms, as well as Greenland, Denmark as the Faroe Islands. And why? Because security policy measures can have derived effects in terms of investment, or lack of investment and trade. At the same time, one must also be honest and say that the influence or decisive position of Greenland and the Faroe Islands is also in favour of Denmark, because it gives us a greater voice in international cooperation. So that's why we think this is for the benefit of all of us. The increased focus, the new opportunities and the new threats of the great changes in the Arctic at a time when many more things have been taken home by both the Faroe Islands and Greenland, underline why this closer, more equal and respectful dialogue between the three kingdoms is needed. That is the only way we can deal with the complex situation, because security policy and foreign policy cannot always be separated. As others have said, it is not possible to separate, for example. In addition, the European Union will continue to play a key role in the development of its relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, including the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and will continue to play a key role in the development of the Union's relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. That's why we need to figure out a way to navigate this grey area together, while respecting each other's wishes and needs. The increased need for a respectful and equal dialogue applies both at government level and at parliamentary level. At parliamentary level in particular, we believe that there is room for improvement, which we hope will be possible in the future, so that there will be a more systematic and more • what can be said about planned involvement and with more ties between the various Members of Parliament. The European Union is also a very important partner for the whole Kingdom community. In the EU, Denmark is the bridgehead of Greenland and the Faroe Islands and can assist in parallel with the Faroese and Greenlanders' own dialogue with the EU. The Faroese efforts to modernise the trade agreement of 1997 demonstrate the potential and the partnership agreement, Greenland, without, moreover, comparing the two agreements with the EU. The government therefore has our full support in setting all sails to help ensure both the Faroe Islands and Greenland better agreements and better market access in the EU, and we really hope that the government will prioritize this in the future. The government's recently published inventory of border barriers for the Kingdom community points to another place where we think the government should take action. There are technical conditions that can still be adapted and that make life and everyday life trouble for our citizens and our business community. Since the talk is on border barriers, I would like to take an example, as my colleague Mr Seligman has said. Bertel Haarder has mentioned the fact that there are unfairly high roaming charges across the Kingdom community. It may seem like a small thing, but it is something that bothers our citizens in their daily lives, and it is something that can be dealt with across the European Union. Can it really not also be possible within the Kingdom community to solve such challenges? We think we should be able to do that. However, overall, we still think that we are looking into a well-functioning and well-organized community of Kingdoms that we are involved in developing. We're still waiting for the government's Arctic strategy. We hope it will come soon, because it is more important than ever. We also hope, of course, that some of our thoughts can be found in it. In fact, I think they can, because fortunately there is more gathering than there is splitting when it comes to the kingdom community. And when we sit down and talk to each other across the Kingdom community, it is actually my experience that far along the way we can talk about some sensible solutions and that the conflicts there fall into the background. Finally, I would like to make it clear once again that we in the Left are warm supporters of the Kingdom Community. We are because we have historical, cultural and family ties that the Left would like to safeguard. Each of us also has differences that allow us to inspire and challenge each other. I also think that the Prime Minister's statement fully confirms this. One small thing here is that in 2019 we got some funding from the Finance Act to increase knowledge and teaching about the Kingdom Community in primary school, which we think is lagging behind. There I would like to make an appeal today that we will soon have it put into practice so that our primary school students also become more familiar with what is going on across the Kingdom community. The Left is firmly convinced that the Kingdom is making all three of us stronger, the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark. Of course there are bumps on the road, but they are destined to overcome if the will is there with all parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518142612	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518142615	Thank you very much to the rapporteur and also thank you for your good cooperation. I would like to ask you about the foreign policy elbow, which has been very much talked about in Greenland over the last few years. After all, we need to consolidate the good practice of Greenland sitting at the table and being more involved, so my question is: is it something that one could also imagine that the Left, if they came to power, would help to support, i.e. that Greenland could also have more of the elbow space to act in? Greenland would like to sit at the negotiating table, among other things. in the defence negotiations, but we are sitting in a corner, you might say, in part of the negotiations, and it feels a little like sitting at the children's table at the family party, and the wish is, at least in the long term, to sit on an equal footing with others. So I want to hear about that is something that the Left will support in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518142710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518142711	Thank you. This is the only way forward, we see for the Kingdom Community, also as Greenland and the Faroe Islands have taken on many more tasks, is an equal cooperation, where we sit more closely at the same table and agree on the solutions, and that also means an increased room for manoeuvre for Greenland and the Faroe Islands, which is so small, but that we also had a report on the DAU in the past, and there are some other things in which we think that it should also be things on which we agree, and on which we go into a room and agree before each of us speaks with each of our voices outside, because we think it may be problematic if we go out and, for example, we agree. To the Americans, two different voices talk too often about too important things. There we are thinking that there is a greater need for us to sit together in a room and agree on some red lines, or what we have called it before, but it is also a more equal cooperation, one might say, we are going to go there. But there are some things that we will probably not have to report to the East and the West when it comes to foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518142812	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518142814	Thank you very much. Closer dialogue is the way I hear it, and we are very happy to make a very concrete proposal, we are actually doing it in our rapporteur's speech, so I hope that the rapporteur will also deal with that when we get there. We support it here with the Growth Fund and Greenland Venture and also support it here with the border barriers; many of us have been born and raised Greenland, remembering how expensive it was to call your family in Denmark, you should almost put on it immediately, and that is almost how it is today, and you might well wonder why it is so expensive, not necessarily from Greenland to Denmark, but from Denmark to Greenland, and I would certainly like to back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518142854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518142855	Thank you for your comments. I think we can work together on that. I really think we are seeing one by one relatively much what a close and equal relationship should be, and I look forward very much to hearing the concrete proposal. We ourselves have come up with some models for how increased parliamentary cooperation across parliaments could be, so I am very much looking forward to hearing your proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518142920	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518142922	After all, SF's rapporteur for Greenland sometimes talks about version 2.0 about the Commonwealth. I believe that we are already in the process of shaping it in practice. We're not writing down along the way, but reality is changing. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with the fact that Greenland and the Faroe Islands actually have a real influence on foreign and security policy and, in certain situations, also act independently, perhaps contrary to old positions both in the Left and in the Social Democratic Party, but that the reality is that they have bilateral agreements both with the United States and Russia and implement the agreements they make and that there is indeed a change in the Kingdom community, because the other two countries see new opportunities by independently negotiating. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143016	I think that has already been the case. After all, there are a lot of areas such as trade and other things, telecommunications policy, which the Prime Minister mentioned, where action is already being taken. It is then just there, in a more complex world, where again there are major security threats and the whole digital area comes in, where we believe that there is an advantage in that we may then have coordinated a little more in the areas that have already been taken home. So I think that there has gradually been room for elbows. I also think that we should have an honest talk with each other about what these are in some areas where it actually strengthens us all and is in the interests of all of us that we cannot be played off against each other. I also think that in Greenland and the Faroe Islands there is a great understanding of the advantage. In other words, I believe that it is the benefits of being in a community of kingdoms that binds us together and that there is an advantage for countries with very, very small populations, for example. in relation to cyber threats and other things may have a collaboration with a partner such as Denmark. So I do not imagine that we should turn it back in such a legislative way, but I think we should just have an equal dialogue on what common solutions we agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143123	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143125	I hear that the Left is also on the way to recognising that the area of security is not an exclusive area for the Danish Foreign Minister, but that it is actually already in the countries and that it also acts on security and foreign policy independently on certain issues and that this development will continue. I think that is a good thing, because it is precisely to strengthen a country that you have your own security and foreign policy and can also make agreements on your own that benefit Greenland and that benefit the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143201	After all, we are in the situation today that the people of Greenland and the Faroe Islands can decide tomorrow that they want to be self-employed. So the continuing support for the community is, of course, that in some form you may think that what is going on is reasonable and that you can see the benefits of it, and this requires close dialogue and eye level. But in the end, with the constitution we have, it is still the government's competence or responsibility to make some decisions, but it has to be done in a way where Greenland and the Faroe Islands can see themselves in it and in a close dialogue, and there I also feel that the government has come a great deal further and that there is always a development that makes the kingdom community evolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143245	The next brief remark is to Mr. Edmund Joensen of the Samband Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143247	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech, and thank you to the Left for the always great interest in the Kingdom community. My question is this: we all have a tremendous interest in the Kingdom community at the moment, and especially on the part of the great powers. What does the rapporteur think is most sensible to do today in the Kingdom community about the politics of the great powers? How are we all going to act together?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143336	Thank you for the question. We believe, as I said, that the smartest thing is to come together and have a closer dialogue and to be better at coordinating and talking about what our different interests are and, in relation to those things, perhaps also at a slightly overall level agree on what the lines are and where it is that we need to agree so that we can have a common front externally. So I think the answer is, a little like Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen also mentioned, to say how it is that we are getting this closer dialogue up, so we agree on what the priorities are, what the challenges are, what the goal is, so we have a stronger dialogue and closer coordination. Where things go wrong is when you're late. We have seen an example of the telecommunications area in the Faroe Islands, we have seen an example of investment in Greenland, where you are told at the back by a Danish government that ups, ups, there is something here that you should be aware of. There I really think it would strengthen us if we had that dialogue at a very, much earlier stage and a little more long-term talk about where it really is that there are some elements that may be problematic. Because then I think that we had completely avoided getting into the problems that we have been in the last ten years in relation to some of these areas where it is again beginning to challenge us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143446	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143447	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. I fully agree that we need to strengthen the dialogue; that is the best way we can go. The Faroe Islands have great interests in all the great powers. After all, we are selling a great deal to Russia, a great deal to China and also to the United States, so we are very interested in the policy of relaxation on which I understand everyone agrees, but we are still afraid of armament. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143528	Thanks for the consideration, and that's it. So, as Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen mentioned, there is also some vulnerability when you export a great deal to some countries. One of the things I also think that Denmark can help with that was also what I mentioned in my speech • is that you help Greenland and the Faroe Islands to get some more market access, get the opportunity to be in more markets. Well, there's the problem that you're there for all of us, we're also experiencing it in our own foreign policy when you're very dependent on a few markets, so also becomes very vulnerable to pressure. So some of what I think we can work on together is this: increasing market access, for example. to the European Union and the United States, so that you are not so dependent on individual markets, which can, of course, make it easy for you to be pressured.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143616	The next brief remark is to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143617	Thank you for the fine words. I also think that it is important to strengthen the dialogue, as the rapporteur has said a great deal about it. On the other hand, what I also think about strengthening the dialogue is how we communicate some things and how we understand each other. I am thinking here quite specifically of the fact that when, for example, we do so. on the part of Siumut talks about independence, and when the Left talks about the Kingdom, I think that we basically want the same thing, we want a strengthened community on some level, but we just look at it differently. For example: Mr Siumut sees the fact that in reality it is the structures that the rapporteur himself said that there is something •ups, ups • here and where you are going to announce some things too late. We see it as such that by forming a state we can form a federal cooperation with Denmark, where all countries actually surrender sovereignty to each other and it is not one sovereign state with two other nations. What is the rapporteur and the Left thinking about this? So, now I have also seen that there is a desire for greater self-determination in some areas for Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but what kind of community structure is it that the Left is also looking at?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143732	But we are open to requests from Greenland and the Faroe Islands. This is also why we have made with us the agreements where you actually have the opportunity to determine your own destiny in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. But that is to say, we actually think that the Kingdom is a very good construction in relation to two very, very small countries such as Greenland and the Faroe Islands and also a small country like Denmark, and that in that construction we have been able to maintain our security for relatively many years yet, despite the fact that we are located in a place where great-power interests could actually very quickly arise; we have had the opportunity to preserve our cultural identity, and we have been able to preserve the historical ties between our countries for good and bad, and we must of course talk about that too. But there we really think that the Kingdom community has shown its worth as a construction which has actually worked for all three countries and which, in an uncertain world, has actually ensured that all three of us have been able to develop relatively freely. That is why we do not see the great need to change the structure. But again: Of course, we are responsive if you have another request from either Greenland or the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143836	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143837	Well, I think it's an interesting discussion, also because I really feel that we sometimes talk past each other. We want basically the same thing; we want a strengthened Kingdom community, we want strengthened cooperation. Because it is true that it is not only bad, and there are some good things about it, but there is a great deal of dissatisfaction, including from Greenland, especially when we talk about having the same line with the Americans, but it is not always that Denmark, when it comes to talking foreign policy, secures itself the same line as the rest of the Commonwealth before going out on foreign policy. So there are some structures that may need adjustment. However, thank you for the rapporteur's comments and the desire to find each other no matter what.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143918	You're welcome. And that was actually one of the things I tried to say in my speech when we sat down and talked about what our interests really are. How did Greenland, for example, feel about Greenland? Looked like today, if it had now been in a community with the United States instead of with Denmark? Or can you imagine a world where Greenland can be allowed to act completely without being in close cooperation with other countries? I don't know. I don't think it would have been better in other constructions. But that is the dialogue we must have. And I agree, after all, we agree on 90 per cent. of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143952	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518143956	Thank you. Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson said that the Faroe Islands and Greenland can decide tomorrow whether they want to be independent. I'm just gonna go into a little more detail there. It is true that there is a self-government law for Greenland which says that a referendum can be held, and then you can negotiate with the Danish Government about independence. But we also have a constitution, and you can't just change it tomorrow. This requires a referendum in Denmark and a large majority in the Folketing. It's a very, very heavy process. So it probably doesn't work quite well tomorrow that you can become self-employed, because the constitution is above the self-government law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144043	You shouldn't take it that literally. But I find it difficult to imagine a situation in which Greenland or the Faroe Islands say that they want to get out of the Kingdom community and that we should somehow stick to it. So, in our optics, it is Greenland and the Faroe Islands who decide their own destiny, or what affiliation they want to have with the kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144110	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144111	Well I also believe that it will probably be possible for Greenland and the Faroe Islands to become self-employed if they so wish, because the Danish Parliament has the view that Greenland and the Faroe Islands can become if they want to. I just think it is important to make it clear that, although there is a self-government law, there is also a constitution and it is very heavy to change, and in the end the Danish people must also be asked in a referendum before Greenlandic and Faroese independence can possibly become something. So we can pretend it's very easy, but there's a rather heavy process before it can happen. But I share the view that Greenland and the Faroe Islands have the opportunity to become self-employed if they so wish. I am not in favour of it myself, but I share the view that it is really an opportunity that they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144207	I think it will also be a heavy and hard process, and I do not think it will be good for anyone either. I do not think it would be good for either Greenland or the Faroe Islands to go through a process. So it was a mistake if I gave the impression that it was easy or it was unproblematic. In other words, as I said, we are strong supporters of the Kingdom community, and we actually think that all three countries have advantages out of the construction we have. I cannot point to many other places where three small countries have thus had the opportunity to have a construction which, in my view, is of benefit to all three countries. So I hope you don't go down that road because it's gonna be trouble and it's gonna be all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144245	The next brief remark is to Mrs Barbara Gaardy's Happy Apol from Javnaðarflokkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144249	Thank you very much for the floor. The text of the adoption, which we are also debating here, states that there is a call for greater cooperation within the Commonwealth in the fields of foreign and security policy, but also with respect for the division of competences within the Commonwealth. On this occasion, I would like to ask what the view of the Left is in relation to the screening law which is currently being discussed here in the Danish Parliament. If it were to happen that the government would choose to consider that telecommunications infrastructure was a matter of security policy, would the Left support the fact that the decision still had to be taken by the Faroe Islands because telecommunications infrastructure is a matter of concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144336	Yeah. I do not immediately see that we should take back the area of telecommunications infrastructure, but that is why I still believe, with the cyber threats that we have Russia and China, the more people have to sit and prepare these attacks than live in the Faroe Islands, if you have to say it straight out that it is wise and in our all interests that we have close and committed cooperation on how we deal with these things. It is also because there is so much communication and, of course, we need to be able to talk about security policy across the Kingdom community. So I call for close and binding cooperation, but I do not see that this is something we are dragging down over the Faroe Islands' heads.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144416	Mrs Barbara Gaard Happy Apol.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144417	I also share the rapporteur's views on increased cooperation in this area. However, this raises a slightly different and slightly larger question about something that has been talked about a great deal in the negotiations on the time when the Faroe Islands would separate themselves in the late 1990s, namely whether one could introduce a principle of irrevocability for the transferred areas of responsibility in the Faroe Islands. In this case, I think it is very relevant to raise this question. Will the Left support a new principle, which we might call irrevocability, for matters which have been taken over?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144458	I can't relate straight away to whether one could imagine some example where, with a backdoor in the Faroese telecommunications network, one could do something and where one thought that Denmark had to have some attitude towards it. But as a starting point, I think that cooperation on this is something that must take place in dialogue, and then I have to take a closer look at that proposal. As I understand it, it is not something that has been used or even been on the table. If we sometimes say that we are a little looking for the things we can say are problematic in the Kingdom community, then maybe this is one of those that I think falls into that category.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144540	Thank you, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518144601	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for both the written and the oral statement in connection with our annual debate on questions in this Chamber. It is gratifying to note that all our three countries, with good efforts, seem to have made a relatively gracious break through the pandemic and that all the countries also seem to rise economically after decommissioning with the prospect of growth. Economically, the Faroe Islands are in a position to do without the block grant, while Greenland receives almost 4 billion. kr. The Self-Government Act in its time fixed the State's block grant to 3.9 billion. kr. in 2009-money. The lock was surprisingly done at the request of the Greenlandic politicians. In the past, this year's block grants were negotiated with the Ministry of Finance, and the amount could therefore vary. Similarly, at Greenland's request, it was hoped that Greenland would finance itself in future, when it took over business areas, where it was previously such that when you took over an area, there was government funding. In the following I will deal with relations between countries and where I sometimes seem to be crumbling. I do not share the optimism that previous speakers have had. Especially the relationship between Greenland and Denmark is more and more tense. In fact, I think it is bad at the moment, as was also demonstrated by Pele Broberg's participation in the meetings of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with Denmark's Foreign Minister and the Secretary of State of the United States. Dramaticly it was seriously during the elections in Greenland last month. In the final sprint, Siumut's relatively new president, Erik Jensen, drew blankly, declaring that if Siumut won the election, he would, before the end of the parliamentary term, issue a referendum for or against Greenland's full independence, and in this he was supported by the Party of Naleraq. I am surprised that the announcement received no particular attention in Denmark when it was just an election promise from Siumut, which thus launched a ticking bomb under the Kingdom Community. But Danish politicians, with few exceptions, unfortunately say, as usual when it comes to Greenland: we do not interfere. But we will have to interfere when Greenland is preparing to sail away from the kingdom, which has been part of for centuries. If you remember what former Prime Minister Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen made it clear that at the moment a Greenlandic government issues a referendum, Denmark will consider Greenland to be de facto out of the kingdom community. According to Mr. So Lars Løkke Rasmussen is not waiting for the outcome of a vote; as soon as the referendum is printed, Greenland is definitely out of the kingdom community. The opinion did not interest Danish, Faroese or Greenlandic pressure, but as an old journalist I really think I can take the liberty of assessing the statement to bear a rather interesting story. Our present Prime Minister has not spoken on this matter. I also tried to get the Prime Minister to answer that in relation to the question I asked her, but I thought she was avoiding it, unfortunately. But I hope that today we can get a message from the Prime Minister so that we can get very clear lines. Now it did not turn into a Siumut government, but a government in which Naleraq is involved. How strong that party faces IA, I can't judge. Neither Siumut nor Naleraq have done anything to inform the people of Greenland of the reality that awaits if or when a referendum is held. I would therefore like to briefly describe the situation: after four years of full payment, Denmark will stop the block subsidy of just over 4 billion. kr. per years. The Danish fleet will sail home, also after 4 years, and Greenland will then constitute a military vacuum, which the United States will, of course, promptly rectify. The Greenlanders, including those resident in Denmark, will have to choose citizenship. That right will probably be granted for some years to come, as happened with the Icelanders after their independence. After the four years, special arrangements will have to be introduced in relation to the use of health institutions such as the Rigshospitalet, where Greenlanders today, of course, are entitled to full service. The police and the judiciary are moving completely to Greenland, and so are the more than 30 areas that self-government has not yet taken over. There are also a large number of benefits in almost all areas. I estimate that the total amount that Greenland may finance after the secession itself will amount to at least 10 billion. kr. It won't be an easy exercise. For the benefit of Greenland, which came a few years ago, the university report stated that fiscal policy in the country is no longer sustainable and that future public expenditure will not be covered by block grants and expected tax revenues. As you know, there are two ways of adapting fiscal policy: public expenditure can be cut, which seems impossible, because social and health care is already under pressure to the utmost, or increased revenue can be obtained, which seems to be insurmountable, since even huge tax increases will not be able to compensate. New assessments do not give rise to optimism. Here are some examples: Folkeskolen works badly, there is a dramatic relocation, one in four people born in Greenland are now resident in Denmark; it is about 16,000; the research on raw materials is dead; there is no mining of importance anymore; the oil dreams have long since been crushed; the companies have drawn on stripes and a possible production of uranium has now finally died. Greenland is therefore responsible, and in a situation where 25-30 lean years are ahead of it, one should assume that the national government would invest everything in achieving a sustainable economy. At least you should. But one thing is the economy, another, and that is much more important, is the family relationship that characterizes the relationship between Denmark and Greenland. The vast majority of Greenlanders are somehow related to Denmark. For that reason alone, we Danish politicians should tone clean flags in this debate of independence, which is now raging. For that is the 11th hour, and here I am missing an indication from the parties in this country: are we prepared to fight for our kingdom, our kingdom, not to be divided, or are we still looking down on the carpet while we mumble that we are not interfering with such a thing on principle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145337	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145345	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur. In IA, we are very much in favour of this Kingdom Community debate not being backward-looking, but also being forward-looking. Unfortunately, however, I think it was a rather gloomy vision of the future presented by the Danish People's Party. Personally, I would like to say that I am very much in favour of us facing reality. And it must also be said in relation to Greenland that there is a need for human development that is needed for economic development in Greenland. At any rate, the IA is the guarantor of doing something about this, because we know that. Then you can look at the relationship between IA, which had a really good choice, and then at Naleraq. And there are many tasks that need to be solved. IA has also advocated that we resolve this welfare crisis and, in fact, also in cooperation with the Kingdom Community. So it's just to hopefully put some of these concerns that the Danish People's Party has to the ground. I therefore share the rapporteur's wish that there should be something more on radio and television about Greenland, and that could be the case, for example. be part of a future media reconciliation. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145455	Well, since I think things are going really bad, why shouldn't I tell you? It goes well, you have to tell the truth, and it is as we have seen it play out in the last 24 hours or 18 months, where Mr. So Pele Broberg takes the agenda completely in a situation where there is a meeting where it is serious, between the US Government and the Danish Government and the Greenland Government and the Faroese Government. This is serious. And then it turns into a stunt where Mr. Pele Broberg doesn't even want to come to a press conference afterwards, but where Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod had to try so frantically to find an explanation why he wasn't there. He wasn't very good at that. No, the relationship between Denmark and Greenland is miserable, and then you can do as many rosy stories as you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145551	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145553	Thank you very much. In politics, of course, we have different glasses, we see things through, and I do not see it quite so violently, and I am quite confident about the future and also about cooperation with the government and the Naala Suisut. I would like to hear the rapporteur in relation to this with what we can do ourselves to ensure that Danish young people, for example, are able to do. learn something more in the primary school about Greenland, and how can we ensure that there is something more on radio and on TV about Greenland in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145637	I think it is a very good idea that in here, as Aaja Chemnitz Larsen now says, we should meddle much more in what is going on in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. I have always thought that would be a very good idea, but you have always pushed it aside because you say: we should not go in and interfere in this; it is purely Greenlandic matters, it is purely Faroese matters. And then people get incredibly offended by it. I have no objection to both Greenlanders and Faroe Islands interfering in Danish politics. That is also why we have representatives from the two countries here in the Folketing. I think we should interfere with everything we possibly can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145712	The next brief remark is to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam from Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145716	I must be honest in saying that I am not so surprised by the rapporteur's speech. Now we're a little used to that rhetoric being used in all countries, even in Greenland by, yes, for example Partii Naleraq, who may be using a little the same rhetoric. But I am a little puzzled because if you look at the social media, where you also express a lot of your political views, Mr. Søren Espersen on his Facebook, too. a really nice cover picture, where it says: Doesn't it also apply to Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145756	It was Valdemar Rørdam, by the way, who wrote the very, very beautiful lines. We also have them in our colophon in Dansk Folkeblad and have had it ever since I was editor. Of course, Greenland is a people who must ensure that the future is as good as possible. I wouldn't dream of saying anything else. The same applies to the Faroe Islands. After all, we have three different peoples here, and we may have different directions to go in. But I can't understand why, when we all have a great interest in taking this Kingdom community forward, and that's being said by everyone, why can't we avoid these weird demonstrations that Pele Broberg exiled the other day? I don't understand. I do not understand why we cannot talk to each other properly, because I think we should always do that. It doesn't have to mean that we don't get involved in things. But I think it is essential that Greenland and the Faroe Islands decide their own future. I think we all agree on that in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145900	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145901	I am also confident to hear that, because one of the most important things that we, as Members of Parliament, must do is to find a common reason for us to continue the debate. This is a common reason that I can agree to. I also think it is important that we have a dialogue and that we actually find out what we can do together and what kind of community we want together. I think that I cannot speak on behalf of a party such as Naleraq; but when we talk in Siumut about independence or state formation, as we would rather call it, we actually think that it helps to create a more equal and more federal cooperation with Denmark. But perhaps that is where we should go in and have a slightly broader discussion of what we really mean by the words we use, so we, like Mr. Søren Espersen says he doesn't use too hard words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145947	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518145948	But I'm sorry it happened that way. I am sorry that the relationship that in my childhood and youth was good between Greenlanders and Denmark is now not very good anymore. Well, I would like it to flourish and be excellent again and that we can have an equal and proper debate between our three countries. But the atmosphere there is, not only because of Pele Broberg's demonstration, but also in general in the social media in Greenland about these issues, is incredibly fierce and harsh and almost depicts Denmark as such a kind of evil colonial power. And I just don't understand it; I think it's unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150035	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150037	Thank you for the floor. I do not know whether it was I to whom the rapporteur referred with optimism in relation to the Commonwealth. After all, I am experiencing a slightly different dialogue with the Greenlandic politicians with whom I have dialogue, among others. our own sister party Atassut, who is of course the support party to the current government. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made some quite significant statements, but IA went to elections on a very pragmatic cooperation with Denmark, and Atassut is in favour of even closer cooperation in many ways within the Kingdom Community. Among other things: they have been out to suggest that one should look at whether one could make a little more close cooperation in relation to health care, where they believe that Greenland could benefit from learning a little about how we handle some of the health areas in Denmark for a period of time. Could the rapporteur be open to Denmark and Greenland somehow getting closer cooperation in relation to how to lift the Greenlandic health care system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150142	Yes, indeed. There we also mentioned the need to make an extra allowance at some point in relation to neglected children. That was a very good idea, which we would like to continue to work on. There were also offers from two successive social ministers that we were ready to help everything we could, but that was not received in the spirit as it had been said. That's the sad thing about it. I just want to say to the point about how well things are, etc., that there should be an outcry from Danish politicians when someone like Pele Broberg now mentions his name again in this way destroying a large-scale meeting at the very highest level between the governments of Denmark, the United States and the Faroe Islands and the Faroe Islands. What happens next? You wrap it up like you do, and the Foreign Minister has some explanation for what is being said, and he really understands all of this. But there's nothing to understand. You have to behave properly when you are sent to any country as a delegate, and this is about such a summit. Then you behave, and then you talk diplomatically to each other. Then you don't sneak out of press meetings to prove something at home. That is simply not right. And I miss that outcry... I haven't heard it from any of you guys at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150300	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150302	I would just like to thank you for the positive expression in relation to Atassut's ideas, which they too, as a support party, may have an opportunity to discuss with the government. I think it is a good example of how you go about it constructively and say: are there some places where, for common benefit, we may have some competences that we can use to help each other and do things better. So I would like to focus on the welcome message that the rapporteur is also open to the fact that we can do better together if that is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150333	I just want to say that this is the result of the Self-Government Act, where in fact there were two decisions that made it absolutely impossible to interfere in Greenland's economy because it was taken back in that way. And then it was so that it was locked at what was called the 2009 level. You couldn't get more or less. Previously, it had been the way it is still in the Faroe Islands, where we negotiated every year, but compared to Greenland, Greenland cannot get either more or less because it is in the law with a special figure. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who was prime minister at the time, was perfectly clear when he said: It is not 1 DKK. less or 1 kr. more that is the amount that has been desired. It was Greenlandic politicians who wanted it for themselves. It would have been more wonderful in situations where it went badly in a season, that you could then get an extra grant from Denmark. We can no longer do that, because then the law of autonomy will have to be changed. And maybe it wasn't such a bad idea in real life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150437	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150440	Thank you. I think it's liberating that Mr. Søren Espersen says things as they are and does not pretend that everything is joy and gammen in the relationship between Denmark and Greenland. In relation to Pele Broberg's appearance, I also share the view that this was a completely inappropriate way of acting at a meeting between the Secretary of State and the US Secretary of State. And I do not understand why Greenland can, on the one hand, demand that it be involved in foreign policy and, on the other hand, that it be lost from meetings that are as important for foreign policy as a meeting between the Danish Foreign Minister and the American Foreign Minister. It is, of course, to put ourselves outside of influence and certainly not to act constructively when it comes to cooperation on foreign policy. I think that the reason why there has been no more outcry about it is that you probably have a little feeling that that is what Pele Broberg wants. He wants that attention by causing trouble, which is why many of us have actually just ignored it so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150545	The last thing I think is right. The good speech, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov made such a comment than it is a question. And I guess it's also a short remark, so you don't have to ask questions. But thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150600	Then there are no more brief remarks to Mr. Søren Espersen. Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party and also thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518150626	Kalaallit Nunaat naalakkersui-sortaarnissinni pilluaritsi. Congratulations to Greenland with the new government and with plans to really move the country forward towards greater justice and more opportunities for ordinary people. Congratulations to Greenland for a government that will not put up with poverty and will give children a safe upbringing. Greenland now sets ambitious targets when it comes to climate, nature and environment. The Uraani Naamik movement made sure that people come before profit when the government closes the mining project at Naarsaq. Maybe we should bite our teeth together and send Trump just one friendly thought. His surprising suggestion that some might even say absurd suggestions to buy Greenland was obviously what it took to make us realize the importance of the community between the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark. The SF is in favour of armaments, namely armaments in the fight against climate change and for a sustainable environment. The temperature in the Arctic is rising twice as fast as the global average in the last 5 years. It is the Arctic that bears the consequences of decades of irresponsible treatment of climate and nature. Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark must work together in a new and different binding way. We have a chance to show that we are serious when we talk about modernising relations between the three nations. In practice, we must extend the foreign policy sphere of Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and this can be an important step towards a kingdom community with more equal value and respect, a kingdom community with a future ahead of it and with the frustrations and dissatisfaction behind it. Both Greenland and the Faroe Islands have legitimate ambitions to be involved in all processes and decisions. We must find our legs before the great powers. This means unity towards China's global tentacles, including the protection of our critical infrastructure. This also means that we will meet Russia's armaments in the Arctic together in NATO and with a robust response, but also with negotiations and treaties. Then I would say that I think we should be careful not to overlook the ambitions of Britain for influence in the Arctic. But there is no reason to be so cheerful about the advances of our most important allies: the United States. It is so obvious that the United States is trying to knock wedges into the Kingdom community, because it will also be easier to handle the three parts if they can be played off against each other. Naivet does not have a policy at all, and certainly not in international politics. Trump was a rude bully who constantly chanted America first, America first, and I am very happy that Biden won the election, and Blinken also seems like a pragmatic politician, but with his personal history it is probably more an iron fist in a velvet glove. Trump and Biden's goals in the Arctic are the same, and we should not let ourselves be blinded by the new friendly wrapping and sweet talk. The United States will have more influence in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and we risk more military presence. But the way forward is not to screw up the armament spiral. We need to keep to the statements made by Igaliku and Ilulissat. We must both democratise, modernise and upgrade the Kingdom community. I am thinking of the Kingdom community as a form of community of living, where three different nations and three different peoples live in different houses together on some common areas. We keep both buildings and common areas together, and yes, the buildings need renovation and modernisation, but because it rains through the roof of some of the buildings in a few places, there is no reason to tear down the buildings. The SF supports the Commonwealth - a community in which everyone has respect for each other and where diversity is a strength and not a problem, i.e. a community of equals who actively choose each other for. The empire means that in many ways, in all the houses, there is higher to the ceiling than if we lived separately. I respect and fully understand the desire for independence in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, and I also think that a new dialogue is needed and that we must work towards redefining the Kingdom Community. That is why we must all be flexible and dynamic and reach out to each other to hold on to each other, instead of using them to push us apart. On the other hand, I also think that narrow-minded, flat-headed nationalism is stupid, no matter where, when and how it puts its head forward. Greenland's independence movement's grand old man Aqqaluk Lynge has evaluated his efforts as a politician, poet and cultural personality for several decades in some interviews within the last six months, and his conclusion is that Greenland is also a council for the Faroe Islands. I guess it's the same Aqqaluk who in the 1970s traveled around with the rock band Sumé and kept inciting speeches about independence. It is the Aqqaluk who now, instead of talking about a quick path to independence, sees the benefits of three small countries sticking together. As the statement says, the Faroe Islands are doing well, where employment is historically high and unemployment is low, debt levels are low and debt rates are low. There is reason to welcome the fact that the economy is once again in motion. I would then like to see a little more of the economy being used for a fairer tax policy and, in general, a policy that could lift the people who are at the bottom of Faroese society. There are also great bright spots in Greenland's business and economy, but there are also major social challenges. As a socialist, I would like to call for greater attention to the icy class society, inequality, social tragedies and, above all, that everyone should have an education in Greenland. I also believe that the very government that Greenland now has will move Greenland that way. The question we have to ask ourselves is: What can we do in Denmark and in the Kingdom community to ensure that Greenland and the Faroe Islands find the community so attractive by themselves that they choose to stay in a close relationship with all three nations? Once we have answered that, we will have a stronger kingdom community and thus an opportunity to match the rivalry of power in the Arctic, whether it be Russia, China, Great Britain or the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151500	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Yes, there is. It just came out on the screen here. There is a brief comment on Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151517	It was also right at the end that I wanted to speak. I think it was a very fine metaphor used by the rapporteur to see the Kingdom community as a community. I just have a few adjustments to it. The one who owns the community, the one who owns the land, is who we live with, called Denmark. And what Siumut wants in the end is for us to have common ownership, where we all legally own the community, so that no one can threaten us to throw us out of the apartment when we do not do what is being said. That is why I am also pleased that we are talking about modernisation and upgrading, and I see it as a sign that we are willing to get into dialogue about it so that we can actually meet in the middle, in terms of what we are actually talking about when we talk about state formation. Because I believe that we will do the same many times and in the end. We just get off on the wrong foot because of the rhetoric we sometimes use. But I still take a positive view of that in that you can also do it with the SF or?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151623	Well, I think that what characterises community living I live in a community is that you own things together, you help each other and you are good neighbors. We have working weekends, working days, and I don't know what. We have a lot of things we do together. I actually think of the Kingdom community as well. And I think it may be an unnecessary legal detail to go in relation to having to cultivate what is about whether you own one or the other. I think, in fact, that the Kingdom community is something that we all own together. It is equally trivial to say that Greenland is of course Greenland's; I mean, what was one imagined? So if you grow that question too much, I think we're just gonna end up out of some keys, which, to that extent, there's no reason to go out. Because if we're gonna make this community survive, and I'm an enthusiastic supporter of the Kingdom community, I think we're just gonna make a construction that makes you choose to live directly in the community. Because if you get tired of living in a community, you move. And if there's something that's stressful, it's either being in a relationship or living in a community where you can always hear the neighbor put that record on: "Should I Stay or Should I Go." We don't want to hear that in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151729	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151730	Well, I totally agree with that, because when we talk about state formation, we don't just say: "Should I Stay or Should I Go". We're just talking about how we want this community. However, we would like it to be on equal terms, because right now it is particularly important for us as Members of Parliament to have legal rights, since the right of sovereignty lies precisely in Denmark. And often the problem is that we have heard from Greenland that it depends on whether it is a government that wants to include Greenland or whether it is a government that does not want to and interprets the constitution in other ways. But I still hope that we can find a common ground, regardless of what happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151810	That is again the point that sometimes it can be dangerous if you only speak at the abstract level, because then there is always the risk of talking oneself apart. Where has it really mattered? I think that Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam should take it up there and say: in concrete terms, we have come up against a restriction from Denmark, and we want to change that. We can say that we have to do one thing and the other, but let us look at whether there are practical and practical restrictions, which I do not think there are. And if there is, let us destroy them together. But if you look very hard for the rhetoric that, in relation to the formation of states, you want to be yourself, I think you can quickly become the nationalist head that pops up without it leading to some good places.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151850	I very much hope that Members can hear both themselves and each other there is a lot of noise out in the Palace Square right now. We can try to find out who it is that thinks it's exciting. The next brief remark is that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151904	Thank you very much. And I'll be very brief. I just want to say, Pikkori. How good the rapporteur is at starting in Greenlandic. That was very, very impressive, so thank you very much for that. And I would just like to thank you very much for some concrete constructive and good ideas on what we can do in terms of precisely developing the Kingdom community. That's very positive, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151927	I can't just say qujanaq, but qujanarujussuaq. That means thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151939	That was convincing. Thank you to the SF rapporteur, sir. Karsten Hønge. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Vinther. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518151948	Thank you for the floor, which I am speaking on behalf of our usual rapporteur, Martin Lidegaard, who has unfortunately been prevented. And thank you for your statement, which, of course, first outlined the opportunities and challenges of the Kingdom Community. With the meltdown of the sea ice, the Arctic opens against the outside world, while the Arctic is home to significant natural resources and has the potential to shorten some of the world's most important shipping routes, making the Arctic interesting for a number of players. Russia sees its northern flank opening up and has an increasing interest in protecting this and a little more. China's interests are mainly in research and also in infrastructure investments. The maritime Silk Road north of Russia is strategically important for China's transport of goods to and from Western Europe and opens up both opportunities and challenges. And the United States' interest in the area is to avoid foreign powers using it for operations in the vicinity of the United States, and vice versa that the United States can use it for alerting and en route area. The Radical Left considers the three countries Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands as equal partners in the Kingdom Community, and we respect the Greenlandic and Faroese people and the desires for greater autonomy and the right to decide on and, if necessary, when to be an independent nation. But we are also convinced that if so, greater autonomy can best be developed within the Kingdom community and that increased cooperation between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark can strengthen and benefit all parties. The objective of the Kingdom Arctic policy must be a peaceful and stable development with prosperity and sustainability for everyone in the area and with a special focus on climate. That objective and other common objectives are best achieved by strengthening the Kingdom Community and in close and balanced cooperation with the other countries of the region and the Arctic Council. We are three small nations, three small peoples, and only by standing together can we preserve our uniqueness and pursue our common goal. The Kingdom community offers us a unique opportunity for influence. Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland must care for the relationship, as it were, and in different views between Nuuk, Thorshavn and Copenhagen one must take each other seriously and treat each other with mutual respect and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518152158	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is ready, and that is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Christian Juhl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518152218	Congratulations to Greenland with the new government, and of course also congratulations to IA. When I saw the outcome of the government negotiations, I wondered a little, because that is atypical. In Denmark, we on the left would do our utmost to see if we could have something sensible done with the Socialists. And even if it isn't the easiest thing in the world, it's usually what we try to do first. But Greenland is a little more atypical, and the parties are a little more liberal in their choice of partners, and I look forward to seeing how things are going. At any rate, it is an impressively good government base that has been created, and I am particularly pleased to welcome Greenland into the court as far as the Paris Agreement is concerned, given that hopefully it will soon happen. It will be a very good partnership that we can have with Greenland, because it is precisely Greenland that is hit hard by climate change. The Kingdom is changing. The new model for the kingdom community is not something we need to talk about. It is being created as we go and as we work, especially in the field of foreign and security policy. The great powers are rivalling, and I would say that none of the great powers has anything to let each other hear, no matter how happy the Prime Minister is for the United States. They have imperialist interests, and they try to take care of them in different ways. That is why I am very much in favour of using the cooperation of the Nordic countries more than we are doing today. I was a little disappointed that the Minister didn't even mention it, but she just said that the Kingdom community should work better together. The whole Nordic region has something to offer in terms of the development of the Arctic, and also in terms of the opportunities for Greenland and the Faroe Islands and Denmark to have better conditions. I don't know why it has to be so hard. But in the old days there were always Social Democrats who defended Nordic co-operation as the most important thing, and then we had some military cooperation with some, and then we also had others working with others. What is important is that someone tells the great powers that the principles of the Ilulissat Declaration for the development of the Arctic must be a low-voltage area. Development must be sustainable and development must take place under conditions that benefit the people living in the Arctic. And who would be better in this strange world we live in these years to defend the principles of the Ilulissat Declaration than the North? I cannot see and see anyone other than the Nordic countries that have almost built it into history and built into the way we work. Therefore, the Nordic countries must work more closely together and reach out a hand and make it a project that is wider than the pursuit of profit and the search for new access routes to the markets, because when you say the Kingdom Community, you also say automatically the Arctic. You didn't do that five or ten years ago. The Arctic is armed, especially by the United States and Russia, but China, which is not an Arctic state, is following along quite well and seems to be on a path that is more intelligent than the other two countries. They are using their energies in the field of research and technology, with the idea, of course, that it should benefit China. The underground deadlines, the new seaways deadlines. The USA is of course very interested in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and when Karsten Hønge says that they are trying to push wedges into the countries of the Kingdom, that is absolutely right. If you can share and rule, you will of course do so, but I am not so nervous about it, because both the Faroe Islands and Greenland seem to have noticed that there are opportunities for them. And I think they have so far used the opportunities quite wisely and seem to have managed to avoid being fooled by the great power that comes with a lot of money and special interests. This means that there are both community negotiations with the outside world, but also bilateral negotiations between the Faroe Islands and Russia, for example, when we close the ports to their fish, or between Greenland and the United States, when Greenland gets new opportunities, for example. for their students in the United States, or whatever may come out of the agreements that are currently there. I would like to say there that it does not matter that we conduct our own foreign policy. The last aid package of 1.5 billion. kr. was dictated by the United States. We were told this by the Foreign Minister at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Yes, it was the United States that thought it was high time that we spent something more on the military in Greenland and on the Faroe Islands. So we're gonna be it's not just the others. We're gonna have to stand firm, too. And of course we are also pressed because it is not Denmark that is interesting in the Arctic. It is Greenland and partly the Faroe Islands. Therefore, Denmark will have a smaller role as Greenland gets a bigger role when making direct agreements with the United States and other countries. That is why we are in the process of shaping a new order in practice, a new content in the Commonwealth, a reinterpretation of the basic law in the field of foreign and security policy. Even Lars Løkke Rasmussen acknowledges this, who was initially fiercely opposed to it and said: No, no, we insist that we are in charge of foreign and security policy. But he soon realized, when only the Chinese wanted to build airports in Greenland, that it might have been so with it. That is why it is probably also generally recognized by previous, present and probably future prime ministers that it is Greenland and the Faroe Islands that are increasingly speaking on their own behalf in this area. And we must find ways to ensure that Denmark is not completely disconnected. I welcome the development because it provides a more equal cooperation between the countries. I would like to say that I welcome the fact that the economy is super good in the Faroe Islands, a little weaker in Greenland, and employment is good in the Faroe Islands, a little weaker in Greenland. However, it is a dilemma that Greenland has many idle hands and yet imports Chinese to work at their fish factories. I have sometimes wondered, because I find that strange. I have also met fishermen who said: I would rather put my hooks and then pull 3,000 to 4,000 to 5,000 kroner. up during the night than I will stand in a fish factory. And I can understand that. After all, this is an easier way to get to life and everyday life. The service contract at Thulebasen we have been talking about for decades, that it was a good thing, but also that it suddenly disappeared. I do not know whether I am now completely relying on the signals from changing governments that it is in place, but it is at least marked that one will and it is an advantage for Greenland to have apprenticeships, to have jobs and tax revenues. Camp Century, yes, it says in the written statement that we can just take it easy. Nothing will happen until 2100 at least. But with questions like this, we have made a mistake in Denmark in the past and let the dangerous chemicals sink through the ground and then got a huge bill. I am afraid that with the attitude which is now in place in both Greenland and Denmark's government, we will not get a good solution. We must try to find a way for the Americans, too, to help pay for the clean-up at Camp Century, because it has to go up. It's not going into the ocean. Then the helicopter response has been improved, even doubled. I think that is a positive thing, and I would say that, fortunately, they are doing more good as civilian helicopters than when they are in military service, for which they are indirectly prepared. Then there are the vulnerable young people in Greenland. That's where I think it's one of the best things that's ever happened. I would like to say to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen that this is an impressive piece of work she has done, by pointing out time and time again that this should not be a taboo subject, but that it should be a subject that we are doing something about. Now there is a 16-point plan, not a final plan, but a start on a hugely important effort towards young people who are both miserable, have been neglected and have been subjected to abuse. I hope this is the beginning, and I hope that both the Danish and the Greenlandic governments will take new steps so that we can really create an everyday life that is good for the children in Greenland. One thing that is not mentioned of course, because it is relatively new is the risk of a tsunami in Uummannaq. There we have to say to the Danish Government: are you ready? It can get a little rough to evacuate such a big city, and it can get a little rough to find out what we're doing. And then I'm really happy about the very last thing that I'm going to mention right now at zero point zero, namely the enhanced research. I still dream away both of an international research centre in Nuuk, where we gather large parts of Arctic research and that we will be sailing with the new research ship. It does say that Denmark has granted 320 kroner. I think it should be 320 million. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153249	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a wish for a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first is from Mrs Barbara Gaardykke Apol from Javnaðarflokkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153256	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a fine speech. I share the rapporteur's views with regard to Nordic co-operation, and I myself believe that there is much greater potential in Nordic co-operation than we see today. When working together, it is important to be allowed to maintain one's own identity, at least if it is to be successful cooperation. Now it is the case that the Faroe Islands have applied for independent membership of the Nordic Council on several occasions, and the last time, just a few years ago, it was a unanimous Lating, that is, all Faroese parties supported the decision to seek independent membership in the Nordic Council. Backer, sir. Christian Juhl and Enhedslisten up about Faroe Islands' wish for independent membership in the Nordic Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153340	Thank you. I'm sitting with, uh... Mr. Bertel Haarder in the Bureau, and we have discussed it several times. It is also a legal question: how the hell do we get it twisted around so that we can actually do it in a physical sense and within the framework. I am in favour of both Greenland and the Faroe Islands becoming a member of the Nordic Council, because it is the broad community and equality that will lift the Nordic work by including the two countries in the Nordic Council. Legally, we must try to see how we can deal with this, even if it is not going to be an easy matter, but we must have a positive atmosphere in the Bureau to discuss it, although some think it is a Danish problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153423	Mrs Barbara Gaard Happy Apol.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153425	Well, I understand that the legal aspect of this may seem like a problem, but as has also been said several times here today, the Kingdom community is precisely an example of how much we can cope with, even if law is sometimes an obstacle. See e.g. of the Kingdom in relation to the Constitution. We can do things, but it's just about political will.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153446-2	I totally agree. I also feel more and more that the interpretation of the Constitution is also partly a dynamic thing that develops over time, and I also hope that it will succeed in finding an interpretation so that the Faroe Islands and Greenland will become full members of the Nordic Council. I will work actively for this and I hope that the two countries will not lose their courage because it takes time and is complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153513	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153517	That's right for Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl's comment on the Arctic capacity package and the objective of low voltage. Well, it's understood that sir... Christian Juhl believes that it will contribute to low voltage if there is a huge area within the Kingdom community, where Denmark does not know what is going on, and this is an area where, for example, Denmark is not aware of what is going on. The United States is worried about what's going on? Well, sir. Christian Juhl saw, it contributes to low-voltage that we did not take on the task of knowing what is going on on our own territory?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153546	Now I have lived for 68 years, and it has gone fairly well, and when I was younger, the radars and planes were much, much less able to monitor things. There is no upper limit to how much hardware the military would like to have to feel completely safe. And I have to say that we also have to have ice in our stomachs once in a while when defence experts, generals and others come and tell us that there are gaps in one system and another. There is always, and oceans of money could be used, we even have a party in the Folketing that will spend 16 billion. kr. extra on the military and take them from the world's poorest. That debate is political, it is not an objective discussion, and we must remember this when we hear people shouting for arms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153633	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153635	Well, I just want to say that this is one of the areas where we are very, very disagreed, because we believe that if we make a vacuum where no one knows what is going on, the Americans will find out for themselves, and then we will perhaps have direct confrontations between Russia and the United States, and that will lead to much more escalation in our eyes and not to live up to the Ilulissat Declaration if we have that approach. But it is fine that we should clarify that there is one point here where we certainly do not agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153706	Well, if it's the Left's strategy, the Left is going to sail so much, that is, the United States already has a huge radar, newly updated, on Thulebasen, they have lots of ships in the area and currently have an agreement with Norway to have four places where they can just do what suits them. I mean, I think it is part of a real piece of armament that is happening from the side of the United States and Russia, and I think it is unhappy for the Arctic region, since we have now established these principles, and that is to say that they reveal that the principles are just to bend when it suits the big countries, and that is what we must oppose, and that is why I appeal to the Nordic countries to stand firm on the fact that we have these principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153749	The next brief remark is to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153752	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur. The IA shares the wish that the North-Arctic is something that we are getting a little higher on the agenda, and I also think that there is some evidence to support it, because it is the case that five Nordic countries are sitting in the Arctic Council out of the eight Arctic countries. So we are quite strong, and that is why I think it makes very good sense for us to work together and we have common values that we are fighting for, among other things. democracy and much more. Then I would also like to thank you for the nice words about sexual abuse against children. It is extremely important that we have it on the political agenda, and I think it is important to say that 80 million have been allocated. kr. I would like to make a few comments on this subject. However, the chief of police in Greenland has recently recommended to the Greenland Committee that children's houses and children's aides should also be included. It's not like it's just a long wish list from Greenland. I also believe that Greenland should go in there and take co-responsibility to follow this project all the way to the end. Then, of course, there are the good people, I would also say, who have helped to do this with the 80 million. kr. possible. But at least thank you for those nice words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518153906	You're welcome. I would like to make a parallel, because I am shocked to see that there are 1,500 vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. It is stated in the written statement and that there are 400 who are homeless. It is a scandal for Denmark and it is a scandal that we have not together found a solution to it. I believe that Greenlandic houses should play a much more active role, including in Denmark. In my opinion, they could work much more socially than they do, but they must, of course, have the means to do so, and they must have qualified staff in particular. And there should be a much closer collaboration with the Danish municipalities to solve this problem. It is a scandal for Denmark that we have not solved this problem, but I am glad that there are some who focus on it and thank you for it. Then there's a whole other or third thing I'm happy about if we can just make it, and that's that we're gonna have a look at the cops and the city guards and all those things. It has certainly taken many years, and it seems to be going a little bit forward now, but I would like to see it go faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518154014	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518154015	Thank you very much. It is a goal for IA to combat homelessness in Greenland, and I am very happy about that, because a lot of people move in pure desperation on a one-way ticket from Greenland to Denmark because they do not feel that they have had enough help at home in Greenland. I believe that Denmark and Greenland have a great deal to learn from each other. IA has ensured that homeless Greenlanders are also included in the social agreement, so that is guaranteed, but I think we just need a very special effort. Just before the elections in Greenland we made a citizens' meeting home in Greenland at Kofoeds Skole, where we made a lot of recommendations, so of course we will take up and both talk to Naalakkersuisoq at home in Greenland and the Minister for Social Affairs here in Denmark about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518154101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518154102	Yes, and in this context it is no good, if you are homeless in Greenland, to get a ticket to Denmark and then be homeless in Denmark. There is no great pleasure in this in one's life, and therefore it is important that there is closer cooperation and greater effort in both places. I would say that one of the things that shocked me was Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's own statement that inequality in Greenland is as great as in the United States. It was shocking to know. I thought there was less difference between the richest and the poorest. I also see that the government has set it as a very high priority objective to combat inequality in society in Greenland, which is closely linked to social conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518154144	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518154217	Thank you. Thank you for the debate for the time being, thank you to the Prime Minister for spending his afternoon with us here in Parliament for this very important debate on the Kingdom Community, which is, of course, one of the most important debates of this year in the Danish Parliament, because it is actually very much that we are discussing at once. The development between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands is a very, very big topic. The Kingdom community must be developed and strengthened. It benefits all three countries and it is difficult to see any realistic alternative to it. We have found a good balance where there is a great deal of freedom for the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and where only the areas best solved together are solved by the Kingdom Community, while the vast majority of tasks and decisions are solved and decided locally in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. It is also important and reasonable to expect all parties to respect the tasks of the Kingdom community. The Kingdom is voluntary. Greenland has a self-government law which clearly indicates a path to independence for Greenland, and one has not chosen to use it, one has chosen to stay in the kingdom community. Nevertheless, this week we saw the Greenland Home Rule Member for Foreign Affairs, who calls himself Minister for Foreign Affairs, refusing to attend a meeting with the right Foreign Minister, Mr President. Jeppe Kofod, and the U.S. Secretary of State. On the one hand, then, Greenland chooses to be in the Kingdom community of its own accord, where foreign policy is conducted by the Government of the Kingdom and the Foreign Minister, and on the other hand, the Home Rule Member for Foreign Affairs will not respect the Foreign Minister's duties and will not participate with him in a meeting with the American Foreign Minister, which must be said to be a very, very important foreign policy meeting. Greenland would like to be involved in foreign policy. It is perfectly natural, necessary and reasonable, and Greenland must also, and should like to do so, to a much greater extent than it is today. But that is precisely what we are trying to do when we meet with the American Foreign Minister, and then it is no use not wanting to attend the meeting. There I think we need a little more adult behaviour if the Danish Government is to have the opportunity to involve Greenland and take care of Greenland's interests. This requires Greenland's autonomy to be involved. Self-government will not decide whether the United States should have bases on Greenland or other security policy decisions. It is decided by the Danish Parliament and the Danish government, and then the autonomy must decide whether they want to join in or whether they want to behave like Pele Broberg. If you want independence, you have to preserve the Kingdom community. There is no conceivable construction where Greenland and the Faroe Islands have as much freedom as they have in the kingdom community. In Greenland in particular, it is inconceivable that the country should be left as a military vacuum. There will always be an army and a fleet in Greenland. Greenland can choose whether it should be the Danish army and fleet or the army and fleet of a major power. Greenland can choose to be in the Kingdom community with the almost limitless freedom and completely independent identity that Greenland has here, or Greenland can choose to be rolled and pressed by great powers. That is the reality, and you know it well in Greenland, and that is why you have wisely chosen to stay. When you have chosen it, both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, it is important that we get the best out of the kingdom community and constantly work to ensure that the kingdom community is as much as possible for the benefit of all three countries. That is where we expect the government of the Kingdom, that is the Danish Government, to do everything it can to constantly develop the Kingdom community and to ensure that there are as many advantages as possible in participating in it. It is, of course, a practical work which is extremely important. We urge that the exchange of students be improved and that Greenland and the Faroe Islands fill more in Danish media. As several have also mentioned, the cultural aspect is extremely important, and it is important that the Danish people become more aware of what is going on in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, because the level of knowledge is very, very low, and then it is difficult to feel a community. We would also call for more Greenlanders and Faroese to be encouraged to serve in defence, because it is important that the defence of the Kingdom community is not regarded as a Danish defence alone. This gives some reason to feel that there is a foreign power coming and moving around with its military forces in their country. I understand that's a boring feeling to sit with. That is not the reality either, because the reality is that it is not the Danish defence that moves around the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, it is the defence of the Kingdom Community. And that would be a good thing if more Faroese and Greenlanders were to serve as well. We have, of course, taken some steps in the latest defence settlement to gain access to the session, but it is important that we do even more in order for more people to be able to serve. In particular, I have always wondered why there are so few Greenlanders serving in the Sirius Patrol, since I have an idea of "maybe it's a prejudice, I hope no one is offended by the fact that Greenlanders may know a little more about dogs and snow and to ride with sledge than Danes as a starting point. So the recruitment opportunities to get something out of local knowledge should be quite great, although there was someone who, when we visited Sirius in the Defence Committee a few years ago, told me that the proportion of Greenlandic members of the Sirius patrol was exactly equal to the share of the population in the Kingdom Community, which is about 1%. But it is still very little that it is only 1%. by the members of the Sirius patrol, who have been Greenlanders over the years, and that the whole of North East Greenland is in fact only populated by Danish soldiers from Denmark itself and not from Greenland. So there are opportunities to do much more. We also think that business cooperation should be strengthened. It is very important that there are more Danish investments in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. I hope that we will take a positive view of the fact that under the bourgeois government we took some steps to ensure that Greenland airports, among other things, are able to do so. was financed from Denmark. I certainly hope that we have not reached where we would rather have Chinese investments in Greenland than Danish investments. Then I think there's a bad mood if that's where we are, and I hope not. I hope that it will be seen as something positive when Denmark wants to invest and that we can get business cooperation going. At least we do that in Denmark if foreigners want to invest in Denmark; then we are happy with it and see it as something positive and not as someone coming and doing something bad for us. So we think there are many important tasks, and we are therefore also sorry that the Kingdom Community is a small task in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It should have much more focus, but at least we have this debate, and we are pleased about that, and we very much support a very sensible text for adoption which we think we have got in place with an intense e-mail dialogue over the last 24 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155017	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155023	The rapporteur chooses to use a language which almost goes back to before home rule, that is to say that the Greenlanders should not believe that they will have any influence on the creation of radars or other military installations in Greenland. However, it was an old-fashioned and conservative view. Of course Greenland and the Faroe Islands will have an influence on whether radars or military equipment should enter their countries, that is something that goes without saying. The Kingdom Community is called the Commonwealth But could it be done to ask for a slightly more engaging tone where one respects the other two countries, or is it really the position of the Conservatives that we live in a time many years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155126	Do you know it when there is a member of the Folketing who spends his entire speech first misquoting what has been said and then thundering against it? That's what we were just through here. Of course, I did not say that the Greenlanders should have no influence on whether a radar should be set up on Greenland, for of course the Greenlanders do. I said that autonomy will not determine it, because the kind of decisions that are about security policy will be taken in the Kingdom community, and there we have many channels to ensure that Greenlanders have influence. We have a firm procedure for talking to the self-government and hearing their views, and then we also have two talented representatives here in the Folketing who are involved in making such decisions, just as we have representatives from all other parts of the Kingdom who sit here in the Folketing, where decisions are made on security policy. It is very democratic and very fine opportunities for influence, and we then have a division of labour in the Kingdom community that is that way, and I think that should be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155227	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155229	Well, that division of labour is changing rapidly, and I think everyone should be prepared to do that. Whether you like it or not, that is the way it goes, that countries will have more influence on foreign and security policy and more independent influence. That's the way forward, and I think it's irreversible. The second is the Sirius patrol. When I was young, I applied for entry into the patrol, but the courage failed when I first had to leave. But then there were no special seats for Greenlanders, so there we take Greenlanders and we take Danes. It was in Fredericia, and only Danish conscripts were called, and one could then apply to get up there. You could easily change that in the Danish defence if you wanted to, and if you want to use the large capacity that is in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155315	Well, it's a shame that Mr. Christian Juhl did not enter the Sirius patrol. I think that would have been good for his personality, and one can only wonder where he would have ended politically if he had a career in defence. However, I fully agree that it is important that there are opportunities for session in Greenland, and I said there before in my speech that it is very important that more people serve. The Sirius patrol is a very, very obvious example, but in general we would like to have more Greenlanders and Faroese in the Danish defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155347	The next brief remark is to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155350	Thank you to the rapporteur. As far as I can hear again, there are so many things we can meet about. I agree with the rapporteur's statement that the Sirius Patrol is actually something that is Greenlandic. It is the Greenlanders who have taught the Danes to be on a dog sled, so it is also only appropriate for Greenlanders to be involved, and there are many other things that are mentioned that I can vouch for. But when words like a real Foreign Minister are used, or if we no longer have this construction of the Danish Kingdom, or if we completely lose an independent identity, there will be a military vacuum, I do not think it is entirely connected in the debate. Because when I hear of the desire for a community of kingdoms, when I really listen to what the Danes want for a community of kingdoms, I actually see more similarities between it and a Greenlandic desire for state formation than there are differences, and I think many times we talk past each other, and I am quite sorry about that. So I would like to comment on this: do you not think that in the end we can meet for a state formation where we still have a real kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155500	• Thinks here to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155503	I didn't get the last part, sorry if I could meet you?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155513	Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam will just be able to put the last question to the rapporteur again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155516	Does not the formation of a state guarantee a stronger kingdom in the end?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155517	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155519	No, it does not, and I think it is bypassing the problem to pretend that you can have all the advantages you have in the Kingdom community, while at the same time breaking up the Kingdom community, and of course you cannot. And the story that some Greenlandic politicians travel around with that no, but we do not want to get away from Denmark at all, we just want to be self-employed, and then we need to have increased cooperation, is not going to happen. You can just look at Iceland and how it has gone, and then you can ask yourself if there is a closer cooperation with Iceland than there is with Greenland. And, of course, there is not, because it is the Kingdom Community that ensures that cooperation, and if Greenland chooses to be a completely independent country, then it will be a foreign country like all other countries with which Denmark does not want to have any special relationship. After all, it is a country that is close to Denmark, but then you no longer have a special status in relation to Denmark, and of course the cooperation will be much, much smaller than it is today. So you can't get closer cooperation if you want to break away from the Kingdom community. The Kingdom Community ensures cooperation while ensuring a huge freedom of action and independence for Greenland, which one could never have outside the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155638	The second brief comment on Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155640	So I get a little sad when you start talking a little bit in the way that you come to say that a state formation is not equal to close cooperation with Denmark, possibly. I guess I'm thinking that Denmark in that sense is not independent. Denmark, for example, has. also given some of its sovereignty to the European Union. Who says that, once we have all become constituent states, we cannot create federal cooperation between nations, if that is what we want? We're gonna have to make a deal after. What is the problem now is the construction of what that means. Now we are talking about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the Danish Foreign Minister must not first consult either the Faroe Islands or Greenland until you go out and talk to the United States. Why is it the other way around for us?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155720	Because the Danish Foreign Minister is also the Foreign Minister for Greenland and the Faroe Islands, because foreign policy is conducted in the Kingdom Community by the government of the Kingdom, which is what is referred to as the Danish government, but which is really the government of the whole Kingdom Community. So it is the Danish Foreign Minister who is responsible for foreign policy in the Commonwealth. That's our constitution. I think that the parallel with Denmark and the European Union is absolutely right, and this shows that we in Denmark have found that one can easily be one hundred percent Danish and retain one's identity, while one is part of a larger community, and that is why it should not be the case that in Greenland one thinks that one is less Greenlandic by being in the kingdom community. It's not like that at all. You have total freedom and you can do almost completely as it suits you, and you have completely your culture and identity and everything else in full. So it is not at the expense of one's identity in any way whatsoever that one engages in such cooperation, neither for Denmark in the EU nor for Greenland by being part of the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155823	The next brief remark is to Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155827	Thank you very much. I do not know whether it is getting a little late in the afternoon and a little long debate. But I certainly need to bring it down to the ground a little bit, and I would really like to deal with what the rapporteur was talking about, namely defence. How can we work together? How can we get more Greenlanders into the defense? We've had 50 million set aside. kr. in the defence settlement here not long ago, and it is, of course, a debate that must be held in Greenland that we are awaiting. An agreement must be reached, and then we must find out whether it should be a military training programme, whether it should be an emergency training programme, and I think that is quite an important and good debate to have precisely in order to ensure a long-term food chain for Arctic Command. So thank you for bringing it up. The second issue raised by the rapporteur was also the issue of the Growth Fund, and more than 100 million have been spent. kr. out of the approx. 200 million kr., located in the foundation. What are we gonna do when the money expires? I think that is quite an open question, which we also need to discuss. I would very much like the government to take an initiative to put just as much money into another round, you might say, to ensure entrepreneurship in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155936	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518155938	Actually, I'd love to, too. I think it is very good when Denmark invests in Greenland. I also think there are some really good business opportunities up there. I can see nothing but that among other things. tourism has a very bright future in Greenland, because there is so extremely beautiful and enormously impressive and a very unique nature, and I think that has a huge future for it. That is why I think that there is a good deal of business in it, but I also think that it helps to strengthen the cooperation that we have investments, and we in Denmark perhaps know relatively much about Greenland, at least in comparison with so many others, and we have a close cooperation and also a government that can support those investments. So there is a lot that speaks for it, so I very much agree with that. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen is, by the way, very good at bringing the debate down and making it deal with the specifics of the Kingdom community, and I very much agree with that. Well, we should use our energy to discuss that. But sometimes it's just hard when, for example... is a mark like Pele Brobergs here the other day, not also to get into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160046	Thank you. A follow-up note, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160047	Thank you very much. When we talk about business development in Greenland, it becomes such a little a zero-sum game assessment, so that if it goes well for Greenland's business development, it is bad for Denmark. At least sometimes I think that may be a bit like an undertone. In fact, I believe that if business development improves in Greenland, it will also benefit Danish companies and you will be able to work together on it. So this is something that will also benefit Denmark and Danish companies, and I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160116	Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Greenland must, of course, develop itself mostly; it is clear that you have the main responsibility for this yourself. But to the extent that Denmark can help a little and make a few things. investment, we have to do it because we have a commitment to it. For that is why we are in a community of kingdoms together, but of course there is also an economic interest in the success of the Kingdom community, and we must strive to become more prosperous, of course in a sustainable way, but as well as we can now, without destroying nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160151	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Barbara Gaardy's Happy Apol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160154	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. The rapporteur believes that there are too few Faroese and Greenlanders serving in defence. Now, of course, I cannot answer on behalf of Greenland or on behalf of all the Faroe Islands, but it is at least my view that this service is not something that very many Faroese people are considering, and one of the reasons for this is that it seems so remote. Well, these are some decisions that are being made in Denmark, and that has nothing to do with us. Has the rapporteur considered that if the Faroe Islands and Greenland were to be included a little more in defence policy, more Faroese and perhaps Greenlanders would perhaps have a better sense of belonging to the defence and might also be doing a service in that they would have a better sense of belonging to the defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160243	I very much agree with that. Something very positive that we could do for our joint cooperation was to make sure that the defense was even more open and told what they were doing and invited people on board the ships and perhaps a helicopter trip or something, I know, so that more people could have an interest in seeing what is going on. For it must not just be the case that you see such large, dark warships sailing into the port of Thorshavn. It seems so very closed and mysterious and a little threatening in reality when such warships enter, and there it is extremely important that you are as open as you can possibly be and do as much advertising as you can to get more foreheads on board. The more people can come on board and tell with great enthusiasm, I think, how exciting it is, for example. is to be in the Danish fleet, the better it is for our kingdom community. And it is very, very exciting to be on board such a ship, so I can only encourage more people to do so and that we give more Faroese people the opportunity to come on board, perhaps as part of voluntary military service. There it is an amazing experience for a young person.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160348	Here you go for a follow-up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160349	Well, advertising is one thing, but there is also political commitment, and that is another. I believe that the Faroese authorities should also be more involved in all the defence issues that are and the decisions that are being taken in Denmark, also in the very same way as a pioneer who is serving, also feel that his democratic right is being heard and also respected, from the Faroese point of view, on the democratic platforms that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160417	Yes, that is true, and the rapporteur also asked that in the first question, but I did not really get the answer to it. But I also agree with that part. It is equally important that there is also political involvement and constant dialogue. Well, the more dialogue, the better. It is important that there is always a dialogue between Danish ministers and local parliaments and self-governments in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and that we constantly talk to the lagman, etc. It is extremely important that we keep the dialogue flowing. I also think that Danish politicians could be better at perhaps sometimes talking to Faroese media and visiting up there, etc. So there must be as much openness as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160457	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Excuse me, sir. Peter Seier Christensen, whom I did not see in the Chamber before, I am very sorry. I got scared too, sir. Henrik Dahl, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160518	Thank you. I'd been hiding in the corner, too, so I was hard to find. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the statement on the Kingdom Community. Here the current situation in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, the country's economy, the government's cooperation and initiatives and joint action areas for the Faroe Islands and Greenland. The kingdom community is of great strategic importance, not only for Denmark. We currently see the great interest in Greenland from among others. American diplomacy, their government and their business community. The rewarding community for the Faroe Islands and Greenland must therefore, more than ever, be a top priority for any Danish government and parliament. Denmark has a natural affiliation with the Kingdom community in the Arctic region, and it must be taken into account. The Faroe Islands and Greenland are fundamental parts of the Danish realm. The year has also been marked by the corona crisis and has meant a slowing down in the Faroe Islands' and Greenland's economy. The economic downturn in the Faroe Islands looks to have been deep, but fortunately short and v-shaped. Likewise for Greenland, the economic downturn is a short-term and also a v-shaped one. Despite the specific national, historical and geographical circumstances of the areas, we have a unique and rewarding community. The growing rivalry between the great powers, the United States, China and Russia, should also motivate us in the Kingdom community. We're gonna stand together. We must respect the fact that we are different. The empire has a geopolitical key position in the North and in the Arctic. We must maintain and strengthen our strategic position. It also gives us the opportunity to play an important role on the world stage, a role that we would otherwise not be able to take. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160717	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance, and this time it is true. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518160742	Thank you for the floor, although it started with an ugly scare, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the statement on the Kingdom Community, and thank you to colleagues here in the Folketing for a good debate. The only country outside a narrow group of countries with a centre of gravity in South-East Asia, which has handled covid-19 with the same efficiency as the countries of South-East Asia and the surrounding region, is the Faroe Islands. This is something I have followed very closely, because I am also a health rapporteur, and I would like to congratulate you on that, because it has been very well done, therefore, that we have done so well under the leadership of the competent medical officer. You can just look at how difficult it has been for a number of countries, for example. Eastern and Central Europe to meet the challenges. I also note that the roll-out of vaccines is something that has worked very well within the Kingdom community, and I am delighted because it is in need that you have to know your friends. The Community of Kingdoms is a political construction that is not very often seen today. It is, of course, because it dates back to 1380, when the then Norwegian king married the then Danish queen. These are three countries which are not federal states, but which are held together by a head of state and some political institutions such as the United States. Parliament. It is, as I said, a state construction which goes much, much further back than the nation state, but it is also a state construction which nationalism has killed many times in the past. I think we should bear that in mind, because nationalism naturally has some advantages when it comes to mobilising people and creating solidarity in a society, but it can also have very devastating consequences that I think are worth considering. The big question with regard to the Kingdom community is, of course, how it will deal with the challenge that the Arctic has developed into an area in which the great powers rival very intensely. The United States can, for example, not and will not ignore the expansion of the air base Nagurskoye, which is located on an archipelago which is not so many who know, but is named Franz Josef Land, located in the Polar Sea less than 1,000 km from the North Pole. Then Greenland and Denmark cannot ignore the conflict either, because Greenland is on the shortest flight route between Nagurskoye and the United States and then we have the trouble, if I may say so. This is how a whole lot of countries are constantly being swirled into this growing conflict between the United States and Russia and China, because China has also been aware of the interest in developing economically and investing in Greenland, but China also has a huge icebreaker, which has a very beautiful name: it is called "Snowdrop" and it is used exclusively for sailing in the Arctic Ocean and in the waters north of Russia to ensure access to sailing between Europe and China along the North East Passage. I believe that neither Denmark nor the Faroe Islands nor Greenland can come out of this reality. This is also why my party is in the agreement to strengthen the defence of both the Faroe Islands and Greenland. But the fact that we cannot turn ourselves out of reality shows the American Foreign Minister Blinken's visit to Copenhagen quite recently, too, of course. This is a major power policy, whether we want it or not. That is why we welcome the debate here and the joint motion for a resolution, and we also hope that the reality that we cannot deal with will be tackled with realism and pragmatism, for that is what is needed first and foremost. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518161213	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, who is asked to be ready after a word of thanks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518161230	Thank you very much. In two days' time, Foreign Ministers will meet from all over the Arctic region to the Arctic Council meeting in Reykjavik. U.S. Secretary of State, sir. Antony Blinken I understand that he's also called Tony among friends... has just visited Denmark yesterday. He also attends the meeting and then visits our home country, Greenland. And the entire visit yesterday was followed with great media attention and emphasizes that the entire interest in the Arctic is historically high, especially among the great powers. This year I also participate virtually in the Arctic Council as President of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee. I look forward to it. Historically, we have also seen how interest in the Arctic has been fluctuating and actually bordering on indifference. Those times are over, and thank you for that. Interest has increased and things have changed for the better, not least with Greenlandic glasses. Greenland is more at the negotiating table and is constantly gaining greater influence with our good friends from the Faroe Islands. And there is no doubt that interest has by no means reached its peak, and the Arctic will be at a high level on the foreign policy agenda for many years to come. In the Great Power Rival, the United States is central and is a close ally of the Kingdom community. We all know the attitude towards Russia and China and their actions in the Arctic. Unfortunately, it is also a relationship that is not always good and that we also have to deal with actively, including here in the Kingdom Community and at home in Greenland. In Greenland we have a new Naala Suisut, and new tones sound from this Naala Suisut with a desire for closer involvement of Greenland. We are the Arctic, and it is natural that we sit at the table when the Arctic is discussed. But let us also remind our good colleagues here in the Danish Parliament that while the Americans give Denmark diplomatic rear wheel and visit every small corner and every small village in Greenland, one must also ask oneself whether Denmark does enough to contribute to a close relationship with Greenland. So what can we do together to translate this interest in the Arctic in concrete terms? Naalakkersuisut has chosen to focus on strengthening trade relations between Greenland and the United States and on establishing a proper trade agreement so that our main export product, namely fisheries, can continue to be sold and exported directly to the United States. And the natural question to ask yourself is: What does it mean for Greenland, and what does it mean for the relationship with Denmark? What does this mean for the future of the Kingdom? I would like to begin by commending the government and Secretary of State Mr. Jeppe Kofod to say in connection with the American Foreign Minister's visit that the Kingdom Community is equal and that the different positions of the Kingdom community are respected. And it is an important premise for cooperating that we respect that Greenland, Denmark and the Faroe Islands are three different countries with different cultures, different languages and sometimes different wishes for the future. And despite that, we can work together. In this annual Kingdom debate here in the Danish Parliament, Inuit Ataqatigiit has always had a desire that we not only look behind but that we see it as our prime task also to offer ideas to continue to develop Greenland's role in the Kingdom Community and look forward. In my view, there is only one way to a more well-functioning Kingdom community; it is precisely an increase in equality. And for this, there is a strong need for there to be more knowledge about Greenland in Denmark. More knowledge about Greenland must be given on television and on radio. Qualified education is needed in schools and colleges, so that Danish young people and children have a more modern and more nuanced picture of Greenland. We also need to do more to continue to ensure better self-help for vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. These are all things that you have heard me say before, but things that are also important to have repeated again. Together we should also be able to formulate a concrete joint project between Greenland and Denmark, and such a project could appropriately be based on business development in Greenland with a modern company law, for which we are responsible here in the Danish Parliament, access to Danish and European support opportunities and a boost to the joint business development via the Growth Fund and Greenland Venture. For there is a need for investment in industrial development in Greenland. And I would rather see Danish, European or American investments rather than Chinese investments, for example. talking about critical infrastructure. Some of the areas that could be invested in could be in relation to raw materials, to tourism and to housing in Greenland, which is also a huge challenge we face, but also in relation to entrepreneurship. I also believe that there should be support for this among Danish decision-makers. In addition, we believe, in concrete terms, that there are a number of joint tasks that we could undertake together. Firstly, there is the Greenlandic desire for greater foreign policy elbow space. This is absolutely central and we are well on the way, but it is also a common task for us to consolidate the good practice that exists. Secondly, I would also like to discuss the need to establish a security policy forum within the Kingdom Community. We must ask ourselves whether it could not help to strengthen the political decisions that we had an internal security policy forum consisting of the three kingdoms, not only represented by the governments, but also represented by the parliaments. At home in Greenland we should discuss whether the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security should play a more central role, i.e. a more consultative role, rather than just being informed of what is going on. Such a proposal could help to strengthen internal dialogue on the difficult issues and could help to strengthen political decisions. Last but not least, it is also obvious that the future Arctic ambassador actually comes from the Arctic. Today it is typically part of such an internal redeployment, and typically in relation to some career promotion, but it could just be very good to look at some of those who have a lot of good skills at home in Greenland, who both have network, have knowledge, have training and are well qualified to perform that post, of course in close cooperation with the current government and in close dialogue with the Faroe Islands and in respect of their wishes. All three countries, namely Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark, have the right to draw up an Arctic strategy which describes their long-term visions and plans. The Faroe Islands already have an Arctic strategy, and it is also natural that Greenland will have one. And while we are waiting for the kingdom's Arctic strategy, which points towards 2030, the world is developing and changing around us, and what was wild imagination a few years ago has become our reality. A clear example that we all remember was when President Donald Trump wanted to buy Greenland. In other words, times have changed and we must also keep up. In other words, the need for elbow space for Greenland when we talk about foreign policy, and the need for good cooperation in the Kingdom community is not one another's opposites, but is a fact and something that we need to promote together. Qujanaq. Thank you for the floor. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162130	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief remarks. First, it's sir. Henrik Vinther of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162135	Thank you. And thank you for the fine introduction to the Kingdom community seen by Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. I do not know whether it is the notes from the secret parliament that have followed to the Palace Square. At least it's going on outside. My question is about what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen mentions about the Growth Fund, which was allocated an amount of, I believe, 220 million. kr. ed in 2019. More than half has already been used. Does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen see the need for that pool to be extended when that period expires?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162202	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162203	Thank you for a very concrete and clear question. Yeah, I'm thinking that makes really good sense. As I said, Danish investment, European investment and American investment are, for that matter, a good way to go. And the Growth Fund has had good experience of investing as well. The Greenland pension fund SISA has been made to add 100 million. So when there is a bottom in a fund, you can say, you suddenly attract a lot of private investors, and there it would be obvious that the government took a new initiative to put some more money into that work. It could also be in relation to tourism, which we know is something we need to have boosted after the covid-19 will hopefully be over soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162248	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162250	Thank you. Yes, tourism is a field where you can see great growth opportunities. But does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen see other places where you can jointly strengthen business development in Greenland and where it can also benefit Danish companies in general? Is there any possibility, as Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen sees it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162307	Thank you. One of the things the new government is aware of is that our public sector is extremely large in relation to the private sector. There I think you will see that there will be more tasks that will be solved by self-employed entrepreneurs in Greenland, so this is certainly one of the areas where I think we will see a growth • so that some tasks are done in private rather than in public. It may sound a bit like a slightly different idea from a socialist party, but when you look at the figures objectively, you can see that there is a need for a better balance. But I also think that there are many areas to be pointed out which would also benefit Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162345	The next question is Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162348	First of all, of course, congratulations or when we stick to today's trend: Pilluaritsi • Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for having become president of the Arctic parliamentarians. It's really good for Denmark, it's good for Greenland. I would like to ask Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen a little more about what concrete initiatives they intend to take in Greenland to remedy this somewhat dramatic social situation, which is where too many people are left without a proper basis for living. So, what initiatives are we going to take?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162425	Thank you. Human development is at the heart of the development of Greenlandic society and, in concrete terms, a poverty limit is something that the new government, Naala Suisut, wants to establish. The fight against homelessness up to 2035 is also a very concrete objective, and also a large number of other initiatives. Another thing that is also mentioned is health, where you will just reach out to the parties in the Kingdom to see if you can work together. So I actually think it's a good tone if you go in and read the coalition agreement, also seen with the spectacles of the Folketing. There are a lot of good surfaces where we can support each other. Greenland must, of course, take a primary responsibility in ensuring that the social area is lifted, but we have given hands on the 80 million. kr. So that's something we have to talk about, too, because when that money's spent, what do we do? Does it end cooperation then? It's an open question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162526	Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162527	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen said in her speech that the Americans in Greenland are very keen to travel to every town and village and thus make themselves more visible. I also know that they have such a small corner at the University of Nuuk with some sofas and some flags and some books, and all you can think of is that it's good. I also think that there may be some things we might learn from. Or: What lessons might we learn from, I would ask Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, in relation to such a Danish presence. That is one question. The second is: So, do the Americans just do this because they've fallen in love with Greenland, or do they yankies have sinister ulterior motives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162605	Thank you. I think there are more questions in it. I would really like to relate primarily to what the Kingdom Community and the Danish Parliament can do, and I think that perhaps one should stop and evaluate to see if the relatively large amount of money that the previous government devoted to, among other things. study trips for good initiatives for Greenlandic students and such things, perhaps could be used better in other areas. Are there perhaps new initiatives that we need to take? This is not the big purse, I think, but perhaps more of a dialogue with the Greenlandic players.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162642	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162645	Thank you. The new government, the IA government with friends, has created a government programme, but now I am not as skilled as my younger brother from SF to Greenlandic, so I would like to ask how the new government views the militarisation of the Arctic, which is actually taking place regardless of the principles of the Ilulissat Declaration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162713	In fact, it is very good to know Greenlandic, because there are two versions, and it is typically the Greenlandic version that applies in Greenland when you look at the coalition agreement. It is clear that you do not want there to be more military bases in Greenland, and that is a new tone we hear from Greenland. This does not necessarily mean that Thule Air Base has to be shut down, which you might think if you read the Danish version. But that is certainly a clear signal that we want low-voltage and that we want peace in the Arctic. And we are certainly not naive or blue-eyed, in relation to what is going on with the great powers, but we believe we have to work diplomatically, but of course we also work well within the Kingdom community in keeping it at the level it is and precisely respecting the Ilulissat Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162807	Thank you. In fact, this reassures me a great deal, because I was nervous when I heard the Conservative rapporteur say that the Greenlanders should hardly interfere. Basically, I think it is a very, very central issue that both the Faroe Islands and Greenland are interfering in foreign and security policy for their own territory. There is one point here in the written statement, which says: " In cooperation with Naalakersuisut, a new defence training with a military equivalent content is also being set Now I feel that many young people are going into the defence, not because they want to fight for their country of origin, but because they want to have an education. Is the IA satisfied with the fact that it just says "host-like content"? In other words, should there not be real training if the Greenlanders are to be involved in defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162855	Thank you very much. We have already started an internal discussion on what this training in Kangerlussuaq is specifically about, which must be set up. And 50 million have been set aside. kr., and there I think it will be Naala Suisut and the government that will of course have a dialogue on what it should contain specifically. But the tones I belong from home are certainly that one wants to see more focus on preparedness than necessarily on pure military education. However, I also have enormous respect for military training, and I also believe that it gives our young people some good skills.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162931	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518162933	Thank you. Now I'm actually pretty happy that IA won the election. I was rooting for IA. I hope that information will not mean that it was the death kiss for the party, but I have said it now. That is why I also think that it is now binding that we go in cooperation with Naleraq. And what I want to ask the rapporteur is how she feels about the possibility that Mr. Pele Broberg can run around the world making all kinds of accidents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163003	Thank you very much, and thank you for your congratulations, which I heard a little between the lines. I think that this is an exciting time for Greenland, and it is also an exciting time for foreign policy. Those are some major tasks that need to be solved, including by Mr. Pele Broberg as a foreign nationalsuisoq. I think it is very good to focus on trade policy, on business policy, when we talk specifically about yesterday's visit and about the meetings that will be in the coming days, because Greenland needs business development. We really need to get out of this situation where we are so deeply dependent on the block grant and ensure that we get some business development going in Greenland. So that's where we're all on the line.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163051	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163052	That is right and fine, and we must focus on that too. That is also what this is all about, I think, but I would like to have some form of disapproval of the behaviour of Mr Beyer de Ryke. Pele Broberg showed in connection with the meeting with the American Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163115	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163116	Thank you very much. Now I'm thinking, sir. Pele Broberg refers to our party chairman, if it is at last, and my impression is that we will find out, and there is also a good dialogue about it. Then it can be said that, as politicians, we each have our own way. I have my way, and others have a different way. I believe very much in diplomacy, especially within the Kingdom community. I think it is a difficult construction, but also an important exercise for us in some way to find each other in the diversity of the Kingdom community. I sincerely believe that is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163152	The next question is Mr. Edmund Joensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163154	Thank you. Thanks for a good speech. Did I hear correctly when I heard the rapporteur talking about having to elect a body from each country to promote dialogue between the countries? Did I hear you right? If that's true, I think it's a good idea that shouldn't be kept quiet to death. There has to be more talk about it. What does the rapporteur say?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163237	Thank you very much, and thank you also for your support. I am thinking in any case that it is an attempt to play a ball up and be as concrete as possible. Because I think we all agree that we need to talk more, and we need to find some way of speaking with a common voice, but could actually also disagree internally on some issues. We need a confidential forum to be able to have that dialogue in rather than doing so, for example. to a fourth party. It is our founder from IA, Aqqaluk Lynge, who at one point was out proposing precisely such a security policy forum within the Kingdom community, and I think it is certainly worth a debate that we look at the advantages and disadvantages of it. And, as I said, it would be extremely interesting to bring the parliaments a little more into that discussion, because then I think we will also avoid some things where there is disagreement, also within the Faroe Islands or within Greenland, and that we will get things off between each other. I think that's gonna be pretty important. At least it's an attempt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163338	Sir. Edmund Joensen, another comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163340	Yeah, I think that's a good idea. Anything that promotes dialogue between countries is good. So I like the idea, and I think it should be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163402	Thank you for your support. I also hope that this is something that will be discussed in the Faroe Islands and Greenland on whether there should be a security policy forum within the Kingdom Community. At least it's a ball that's given up from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163412	The next brief remark is from Mrs Barbara Gaardy's Happy Apol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163414	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur for a very, very fine speech. Now we have a Danish government that has been very good at including the Faroe Islands and Greenland in matters relating to foreign policy that directly concern the Faroe Islands and Greenland. However, as the rapporteur has said, there is little missing from the way in which the parliaments are drawn into it. In Denmark there is the Foreign Policy Name with which the government consults. But as it is in the Faroe Islands at least, there is not quite the same constellation and, as far as I can understand from the rapporteur, even in Greenland and the parliaments are not involved in those negotiations in the same way. I therefore think that the idea of this foreign policy forum in the Kingdom Community is very exciting and will certainly be good, also to promote dialogue between the countries of the Kingdom community and, above all, to ensure that all parliamentarians receive the same information. It's not that much of a question. It is more a comment and an indication that I think this is a very exciting idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163519	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163520	Thank you very much. Of course, I also talk to my colleagues at home in Greenland. I think this is the case in the Faroe Islands, of course. There you sometimes experience that you might get the information in a slightly different way or at different stages at least. I just think it is important to ensure that an annual forum can be held where these issues could be discussed. I'm actually pretty open to what form it could take. It is just a wish that it be taken seriously as a proposal or that something else be pointed out. In the past there have also been discussions on whether there should be a security policy forum in relation to the Arctic Council, and there are many different views on this. However, I think that, in relation to the Kingdom Community, there is at least a need for us to increase the dialogue, and I think that everyone is in agreement on this. Today's debate also shows that we would like to have dialogue and would like to have one another, but we may also have different views. So it could certainly be a place where you could take some of those a little hard, but important talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163621	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163626	It is also more a comment than a question, and it is actually just to say thank you for the speech and the many exciting ideas on how we can work together in new ways and in different ways, perhaps also in closer ways and in areas for our common good. In that spirit, I just think it's nice to have all the constructive ideas. We look forward to further discussing closer parliamentary cooperation and how we can spread knowledge of the Kingdom community, increase business development cooperation in the field of health, etc. So thank you for that. I look forward to further dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163702	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163703	Thank you very much for your cooperation, too, and thank you for your words. I am thinking that we have a lot of tasks to do. I certainly hope that the Left, but also many other parties, will back up when there is a school settlement, when there is media reconciliation, that Greenland should be given a little more thought than we are doing right now, and then we want to sit with more. Because some of it takes longer to make sure we're sitting with. But the most important thing is, of course, that Greenland is heard and Naalaksuisut is heard in relation to the wishes you have about development.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163739	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518163758	Thank you for the floor. We call it a rich community debate, and I think it's exciting. It is also the first time since the elections that we have a Community debate in the Chamber. First of all, there have been elections in 2019, then the covid-19 came in 2020, which prevented us from having this dialogue. What I think is exciting about this discussion is whether it is the Kingdom community we are discussing or whether it is the Danish Kingdom we are discussing. Call me semantic, but I know that words mean something to our world perception, and I want us to get closer to each other about what we from Greenland mean when we talk about independence, and when we talk about kingdoms community, because I really believe that far along the way we want to do the same, but these are just different ways we want to do it. We need a little closer to each other in relation to the dialogue in order to arrive at what it is. These days you talk about the Arctic, you talk about foreign policy, and you talk about, yes, the journalists call it that Denmark is an Arctic great power. This way of looking at the world is also a little in the understanding of how Greenland views Denmark. Denmark sees itself as the great Arctic power, Denmark sees itself as a rulership that can ultimately be allowed to decide everything. If we are to get away from all this construction, we are trying to get closer from Siumut in dialogue about what a community of kingdoms is. Because if we look specifically at the word 'kingdom' without thinking about how we perceive the concept, I think that we are actually thinking of three different countries, three different languages, three different ways of being, but with a common objective of foreign policy, of defence policy, of security policy and of Arctic policy. But if we want to, we also have to make sure that it is a real kingdom community, because as it seems right now, I am leaning towards the Danish kingdom, because if we look at the legislation, we see that there is not a single place in the constitution that describes the kingdom community, no, there is the Danish kingdom. The country that has sovereignty right now is Denmark, and when we have messed around the whole construction of what it means to be part of a kingdom community and tried to grade the legislation here and there, we have actually come a little closer to a little more self-determination for Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but basically we do not have a real federal cooperation, a real kingdom community, and that is what we would like to see more from Siumut's side. Sometimes it is as if we are beginning to talk a little too much about the economy, about great powers and many other things, so I also want us to be able to talk a little bit about man. Right now, part of the discussion on the part of Greenland is also that we break with the taboos we have long been walking around with. This is the first time in many years that a great many young women and men are breaking taboos about sexual abuse, breaking taboos about different domestic violence, and this is a really, really big step in the right direction. Let us also recognise that it is the case that Greenland is a training boom. For a long time we have seen that education has grown and grown, and that is not talked about enough. About 1,000 people in Greenland have received higher education in about 10 years. If we look at upper secondary education or vocational training, we see that again it is extra 1,000 people who have also received an education. 2,000 people out of 55,000 people are very, very many, and we are also in the right direction in many areas. So when we come back to what this construction of the kingdom community looks like today, don't get me wrong, because I really believe that there are a lot of good things in our construction, but I just think it can get better. When a lot of people in Greenland talk about lack of understanding and lack of sympathy and empathy from their, as was said so well today, roommates, we also think that there are some things that need to be changed. Specifically, we are looking at the structures of Siumut, where we think that we basically lack a stronger law that ensures that there is real equality and that we should not only think about whether it is a Danish government that is willing to cooperate closely with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, who want to be involved in foreign, defence and security policy that ensures that we have something to say. One thing may be, just as some people in this Chamber have suggested, that we make a completely new construction. That construction must be based on genuine federal cooperation, where even parliamentarians across the Kingdom community meet. It may well be that we have to have a parliament of the Kingdom, where different people go around discussing what the real problems of the common areas are. But I also think that it may require that it is not only the Faroe Islands and Greenland that then surrender sovereignty to a country in order to achieve this. Perhaps three countries have given each other sovereignty if that is what they want to achieve. Because right now, as it looks now, I do not really see a trio of a kingdom community, because right now there are two countries going through Denmark and back again. I hope then that we can build a kingdom community where even the Faroe Islands and Greenland also come closer to each other, but in a way it just doesn't look like things are now. We need to redefine, modernise and somehow figure out how to do it best. But if we look at it in the way I have just proposed it, in other words how we are really building federal cooperation, a real community of kingdoms, and not the pseudo-rife community we have now, then the basis is that we first have a right of sovereignty over our own country. That is to say, the state is formed. I am therefore not trying to use the word autonomy or secession again because words mean something, and it sounds like the disapproval of a certain country, but instead I think that state formation covers what we are talking about from Greenland, also when we use the word naalagaaffinngornisaq, which means state formation. By gaining the right of sovereignty over our own country, we should no longer be outraged when Denmark does not maintain the legal system properly, when Denmark does not maintain the police system properly, when Denmark does not, etc. and so on, but instead it is our responsibility in addition to the things that we have each given out of sovereignty to each other. It will, in fact, shape a real federal community, where everyone is equally equal in the law too. I hope that this discussion will not be seen as an offensive rejection from Denmark, because we do not want that. On the contrary, we just want more understanding and a better dialogue with our Danish colleagues and with our Faroese colleagues when we talk about state formation. When we look at the construction we have now and we do not think that it can be changed just tomorrow, as we have just proposed, there are of course some other things we can do to go in that direction. Specifically, Siumut has also suggested that with more self-determination for foreign policy we may have a parliamentary council, in which everyone in the Greenlandic Parliament will be involved in the form of the Danish government, as is the case with the Foreign Policy Name, but only in Greenland, and that may also be something that the Faroe Islands might be interested in. But until then we have to work for the areas that Denmark actually takes care of, because Greenland does not yet have the right of sovereignty over its own country. This also means that the Danish side should not neglect the responsibilities that you have as long as you have them. Many things we have worked for, and many things we have happily been able to work with Danish colleagues on, and we are very pleased about that. However, I also think it is important for us to point out that when we look at the judiciary in relation to the children's area, we have a criminal law which, unfortunately, is far behind and with which we all have to fight much more. The Minister of Justice himself has come out to say that it is necessary to strengthen the prevention of those who have committed sexual crimes against children, and here I am also thinking of the possibility of including the Greenland Crime Prevention Council and the Greenland Judicial Council in that dialogue, since it is also a Danish responsibility for Greenland. We need to tighten up legislation that is obsolete. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518164754	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments, the first is to Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518164758	I therefore believe that Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam is right in saying that words mean something, that is, what words we put on it. That is why one might well ask, if we accept it and the rapporteur then chooses to say: Denmark sees itself as the one who decides whether it is really fair. Is Denmark a country that really sees itself as the one in charge of Greenland? What does today's debate represent? Is that really it? Or should we be practicing verbally to make confidence-building measures? 'Cause I think it's ditch digging. Or what about the phrase that many people in Greenland do not experience empathy I could understand that it is from Denmark towards Greenland? Now, with empathy and emotions, it is often something that people have with each other. States there it is so harder to talk about feelings, but if we are to translate it then you can translate it as other than care and empathy that Denmark pays 75%. of Greenland's budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518164856	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518164858	Firstly, I have to make it clear that Denmark pays the block subsidy because it has voted for Greenland as part of Denmark. You give the block subsidy precisely because you have had a vote on it in Denmark, whereas you did not even have a vote on it in Greenland. When you had a vote to grant block grants to all Danish regions, you also gave block grants to what you considered to be a Danish region, and that is Greenland. But you're absolutely right that we need words that are more in the positive direction. The words I used about Denmark seeing itself as those who decide, I used to point out what I am going through when I travel around different towns and villages and hear that Denmark is going around calling itself an Arctic great power and seeing itself as the important one, even though the country is not even in the Arctic. These are such concepts that you encounter, and I say this in the hope of understanding that we, too, from Denmark, might have to change our rhetoric about the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165004	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165005	Well, I don't think there's anything wrong with the block grant, not at all. It's worth all the money. After all, I am excited about the Kingdom community and also about the fact that we are paying, I just think it is a little strong diet to be told that empathy is not shown, however, if empathy between states can be made up financially, and Denmark pays 75%. of the Greenland budget. I actually think that's pretty empathetic and quite okay to reach out to the helping hand. I think it's worth all the money. Could we change that? It's what it is. So when we talk about how words work and when Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam travels around and hears such statements, I assume that the rapporteur beats it in the ground and says: 'Well, that is not the case, we were not in this Chamber discussing it as if Denmark were in charge. That is simply not a correct statement. It is unfair to say that the situation in Denmark is such that we see ourselves as those who decide Greenland. There's no hold on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165047	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165049	Siumut thinks it is unfair when it is that Danish journalists and in many other ways on the Danish side regard themselves as an Arctic great power, regard themselves as those who can go out and talk about foreign policy, defence policy and security policy without first including Greenland, which is in fact the only country in the empire that lies in the Arctic. We think that is far more unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165113	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Roug of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165118	Thank you to the rapporteur for an excellent speech. First of all, I would like to say that the Kingdom Community offers enormous opportunities for the well-being of the wealthy, but having said that, I have a more specific question, in relation to what the rapporteur said, that we should talk about human beings and people. I think that is actually true. How does the rapporteur think we can promote good cooperation between Denmark and Greenland? How do we do this in relation to e.g. social and children's area? So, how can we strengthen our cooperation so that there will be improved living conditions in Greenland, not least for the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165200	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165202	Thank you for the question. It is the case that there are still some 36 responsibilities on the Danish side in relation to Greenland, and in relation to the vast majority of those responsibilities, this is legislation that has not been updated in some cases since 1940. These are outgoing laws which, in cooperation with various organisations, trade unions and politicians from Greenland, need to be updated. Here I also talked about the criminal code for Greenland, which has been dated a long time ago and which we need to modernise, so that it is adapted to present-day conditions to ensure that children are protected from, among other things. sexual assault.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165251	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165253	Well, thank you for the answer. Now the rapporteur also mentioned that we need to strengthen cooperation. Among other things: We would like to work together on climate management, i.e.: combating climate change. How does the rapporteur think that we can actually fight together against climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165320	First of all, I did not mention climate change in my speech, but I really think it is a very important issue. In general, I think that it is with the new government in Greenland that the Danish Government must engage in a dialogue. But the dialogue must also always be strengthened between members of parliament in Denmark and members of Inatsisartut in Greenland about where you can possibly cooperate and have different discussions about the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165353	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165356	Thank you very much. One of the things that drives me very much in politics is fairness, honesty and credibility, and I think, in all fairness, that it is important to say that in this way we have a self-government law that allows us to take back a number of areas and become more self-employed if you want to remain in that concept, not a state formation, but to become more self-employed. Despite this, we have not taken a single area since 2009, despite the fact that we have had the opportunity to do so, and that is not to point the finger at anyone, because then you could point the finger at yourself. But what the new Naala Suisut is just saying is: we want to take the food area home. It costs somewhere between 30 and 35 million. kr. It is a lot of money that Greenland has to find in a relatively small economy, and that is why I think it is important to say that we could actually have taken a few more areas. This required that we had a better economy and that we had more business development in Greenland, and I think that is the right way to go. But I do not think it is appropriate to point the finger only at others. There you also have to look inwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165509	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165510	First of all, I should like to say that I do not think any fingers were pointed at anyone. However, I just wanted understanding. Secondly, I would like to say that in Siumut we do not think that the need to take back areas in order to achieve state formation is the right way forward. There is nothing to say about copying responsibilities. If that were the case, Denmark should also have a NASA area, i.e. one that can be reached the moon area of responsibility, just as you have in the United States, so no, you don't. The structure and behaviour of the country are adjusted, and we also want Siumut to do so rather than just say that we are now moving from one point to the next. There are still five responsibilities that we will never take over, no matter what we will never take over, and that is precisely what we need in order to achieve greater economic and economic development. But I fully agree with it with justice and honesty, and that is why I would just like to point out that Section 1 of the Inuit Ataqatigiits wishes that we should be working for more autonomy, and I hope we will agree on that as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165613	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165614	Thank you very much. There are a lot of people in Greenland who want to do that, but we also have to start from the reality that is right now. I think it is extremely inspiring to see the Faroe Islands, which have taken over one area after another, and I would just like to hear the rapporteur if state formation is within the framework that is now in place, that is. that Denmark is responsible for the same areas and still pays an amount or how it is intended to be economically linked. I guess I think that's fair to ask for a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165645	State formation means the right of sovereignty over our own country, and the right of sovereignty over our own country means, of course, that we build up our own responsibilities. This means that Denmark has no real responsibility for Greenland. But after state formation, we want genuine federal cooperation with Denmark, where we can build a real kingdom community and not the pseudo-rife community in which we are now. That is what we want to get closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165712	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Barbara Gaardy's Happy Apol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165715	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a good speech. The rapporteur asked that it should not be seen as a distance, and for my part I can say that it was absolutely not. I and my party are in principle in favour of the Commonwealth, but I also recognized myself very much in what the rapporteur said, among other things. the fact that this government has been really good at including the Faroe Islands and Greenland in foreign policy matters. But one cannot help thinking about what will happen when there is a new government, and whether that government will then be just as good at including the Faroe Islands and Greenland. That is why, in some way, we have to re-evaluate the rights and obligations of the Faroe Islands and Greenland when it comes to foreign policy. It was not so much a question, it was just an indication of what was my view of what the rapporteur was saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165809	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165811	Thank you very much for understanding. That was precisely the understanding I was hoping we could spread out, because this is not about the distance. It is about creating the framework that means that by law and other frameworks there will actually be the equal community that we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165831	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165833	Thank you. I have asked for the floor because the rapporteur specifically mentioned the Greenlandic criminal law. It was originally written by a professor of sociology, Verner Goldschmidt, and a professor of anthropology, Agnete Weis Bentzon, back in the 1950s. It was made because you did not want to drag the Danish penal code down over the head of Greenland, but you wanted to do something that was in addition to Greenlandic legal understanding and legal tradition. So what I just want to take up with the example is that Verner Goldschmidt and Agnete Weis Bentzon were cultural radicals. They were in their own understanding progressive, and the errand they were on was a progressive errand. It has turned out that it may not have gone as well as they had expected, but I think it serves to say that it is also difficult to judge the past with today's eyes. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165931	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518165933	The last sentence I would like to agree with before I go any further. But I'd like to talk about the criminal code that you mentioned. It is precisely the case that perhaps some understanding and some empiri were lacking as to what natural Greenlandic understanding of law was actually like, precisely because it was assumed that Greenlanders were these noble savages, who were very peaceful people. That was what it was ultimately based on, but later on it has been found out, which is also taught nowadays in law at Greenland University, that Greenland actually had the principle that it was an eye for an eye. So it was much harder than the Danish penal code in the end, and the fact that one went from one of the hardest sentences one can possibly have to some of the most gentle has also proved not to really work for Greenlandic society. So we have to start finding a balance in it, because now we have also been at a time when we have adapted to this law, but we will probably have to get a little closer to the Danish penal code, just as Denmark has also come a little closer to the Greenlandic criminal law, and then we will start to find out what is really best suited.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518170042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518170044	What I really just wanted to bring up with my question was that, you might say, is a sad story about some very well-meaning people who did something they thought was right back in the 1950s, that is, many, many years ago. It was two well-intentioned professors who thought: this is the best thing we can do. Isn't it important to have the story in the way that this is actually not a story about trying to bother, but that it's a story about trying to be well-intentioned? It wasn't successful, but that's what history is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518170116	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518170117	Of course we must recognise history, but I also think it is important that we remember who the story was written of. Unfortunately, it has also been the case that the vast majority of history has been written by Western and perhaps Danish people and not by the Greenlanders themselves. And when we look at the Greenlandic written texts, it is actually a very different view of the world one had and a completely different kind of well-meaning intention one also had with the other statements one could sometimes make. I think it is a balance and I agree that we should look at both sides of history and recognise them as equal regardless.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518170150	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Edmund Joensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518170212	Thank you, President. Tað æður um ikki at liggja sjóvarfallið av spær. This is an old Faroese saying about the vitality of good seamanship adapted to the current conditions in the Faroe Islands. In Danish it might sound like: We must exploit the direction and forces of the flow. In Denmark it would probably have the same meaning as saying that one should forge while the iron is hot. Tað æður um ikki at liggja sjóvarfallið av spær. I am bringing that saying into play today, because the political circumstances are right now to develop the Kingdom community. My own view is that both the government in the Faroe Islands and the government in Denmark are more solution-oriented than conflict-seekers. This applies both in their major political games and also to the small obstacles within the Kingdom community. Let us therefore find solutions together, while all parties are cooperating. It is now time to forge; we must exploit the direction and forces of the flow. I am a great advocate of the Kingdom Community, and I want to maintain cooperation and, above all, develop this community of Greenland, Denmark and the Faroe Islands. Development is a key word here, a development for the benefit of the country and the people. Indeed, it is important that we not look at the Kingdom community as a static unit of three countries, but as a dynamic unit that develops in line with time and reflects the world in which we live. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we get better at talking to each other, that Greenland and the Faroe Islands help to take the major foreign and security policy decisions that concern us, and that we find solutions to some of the minor challenges that can, after all, arise in a development. Developments are already well under way. This is reflected among other things. of the American Foreign Minister's visit to Denmark yesterday, where both Landstýrismaður for Foreign Affairs from the Faroe Islands and Naalakssuisoq for Foreign Affairs from Greenland took part together with the Danish Foreign Minister. Everything seems like we're going through an exciting time. The Kingdom community stands on three legs, which are in many ways different, and when you move from one part of the kingdom to another, you can face challenges, the so-called border barriers. Efforts are constantly being made to solve the challenges of border barriers between the parts of the empire, and I am very grateful for that. However, we still have more border barriers that make, Faroese and Greenlanders, Danish citizens, worse off than, for example, EU citizens. Let me give you some examples: if a Faroese goes on a long-term stay in Denmark, for example. Because of the need to study or to receive hospital treatment, the person concerned can only carry prescription medicines in limited quantities. However, a person from Bulgaria or Greece must bring all the prescription medicines he or she needs. I am surprised that an EU citizen is better off in this area than a Danish citizen, that the EU weighs more heavily than the Commonwealth. The same is true if a Dane • a Dane Using roaming on the islands, the Dane gets an unpleasant extra bill with home in the luggage, because the Faroe Islands and Greenland are not part of the EU roaming agreement. This would not be the case if he went to, for example, the United Kingdom. Portugal. I think that is unfortunate, and we must find a solution to that. It is, of course, a good thing that the list of border barriers in the national community is constantly becoming shorter, that they are being tracked down and resolved, and that we have a system and a willingness to remove these barriers before they become a real obstacle to citizens. Two barriers have been removed in the past year. It has been of particular importance that the Faroes can now get a Danish CPR number and NemID in the Faroe Islands and therefore no longer have to attend the Danish citizens' service to get a CPR number. This is precisely the clearest example of the saying I mentioned earlier. From the Danish side the solution has been clear since the VLAK government, but the previous government on the Faroe Islands with the Republicans was not solution-oriented in this area; they would rather seek the conflict. So I repeat: Tað æður um ikki at liggja sjóvarfallið av spær. We need to use the direction and power of the current. New laws will create new border barriers. This can hardly be avoided particularly when the three parts of the empire and the differences we each have are never taken into account, be they linguistic, cultural or social differences. The announced legislation on the translation of sermons delivered in Denmark is an example of how other political priorities sometimes trump the creation of new border barriers. Similarly, the 2019 law on payment for emergency and continued hospital care for certain non-resident persons in Denmark is an example of legislation in which the consequence was that people from Greenland and the Faroe Islands had to be charged for continued hospital care. This omission has now been resolved by a new legislative proposal which could have been avoided. But how do we avoid overlooking such boring things in the future? One solution could be that when a new law is drawn up in this Parliament, it is, as you know, mandatory to fill out a summary form in which the possible consequences of the bill need to be clarified. For example: It is necessary to clarify whether the proposed legislation in question will have climate and environmental consequences, economic consequences and implementation consequences for the state, municipalities and regions. I am thinking of adding a category called implementation sequences for citizens of the Kingdom community. By adding this category, legislative proposals that have implications for the citizens of the Kingdom community would be adopted on an enlightened basis. In this way every legislative proposal would have to weigh up political priorities versus consequences for the Kingdom community, and possible border barriers would not be overlooked. In this way, we would be able to avoid further border obstacles which would otherwise arise and which could possibly later be used as a shotgun in future conflict situations. Of course, this consistency balance must be made in legislative proposals in all three parts of the empire, all parliaments. I have said a few times, and now I say it for the last time: Tað æður um ikki at liggja sjóvarfallið av spær. We need to use the direction and power of the current. Now is the time to forge while the iron is hot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171215	The first brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171218	Thank you very much for your speech and for the focus on how we can make it easier to live together across the Kingdom community. Another issue, which may also be a little in the wake of the saying to go with the flow, is trade agreements. At a time when we have seen Brexit, I think there may also be a window for the EU to see an advantage in linking both the Faroe Islands and Greenland closer to it. So the question to the rapporteur is really how he sees the situation in relation to the Faroe Islands being able to negotiate better trade agreements, among other things. with the EU, what role the Danish state may play, and whether we can play a greater role in supporting Faroe Islands' aspirations for better market access in the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171310	Thank you. A new trade agreement with the EU has the highest priority for the national government and the government of the Faroe Islands, and I know that the Prime Minister and the government have raised the matter to the highest level in the EU, so the matter should be highly topical at the moment. So I think the matter is running well at the moment; it has come off well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171353	Thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that this is something that is being prioritised by the government. It is good that hopefully there will soon be some good news that we will be delighted with if it succeeds.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171410	Thank you. This is something that the Faroe Islands really need. Now it has been disputed that we are selling too many raw materials to Russia and to China and that care should be taken not to become too dependent on these markets. Of course we have to sell to the whole world, but in a way this is because we only have a simple trade agreement with the European Union. If finished goods or food had been opened in the same way, it would take the pressure in the other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171448	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171451	Thank you very much. And thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I think this whole thing about taking advantage of the river's direction was very beautiful and poetic already with the waves, as I understood it. So thank you for that speech. I would like to hear: does the rapporteur have such a priority in the first, second and third parliamentary work? Is there anything special that the Folketing can do in order to promote some matters that will be good at home in the Faroe Islands? Then I would say that in Greenland it is enormously inspiring to follow the development that is in the Faroe Islands, especially in relation to your economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171530	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171532	Now we talked about the questioner's proposal half an hour ago, and it was, of course, that we should have a greater dialogue between the kingdoms. As I understood it, a forum was to be elected in each parliament or in each government, which should be permanent and sit throughout the year and be used for the necessary dialogue in the Kingdom community. And, in fact, I like the idea, because the more dialogue we have, the better, and if that forum could solve things and matters, it really is something that is battling.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171632	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171634	Thank you very much. Some of what is being discussed in the Faroe Islands is this with a radar that is part of this Arctic capacity package, which is part of the settlement. It is, of course, a debate on the Faroe Islands, but we may not get the nuances when we see it from here. Will the rapporteur perhaps reveal a little bit about what discussions are being held at home in the Faroe Islands about a possible radar?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171703	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171704	So, there has been a discussion of the whole matter on the Faroe Islands for a long time both in the national government and also in the Latting Foreign Affairs Committee. And, to me, it has come so far that the Minister, who was here in Copenhagen yesterday, the Foreign Minister in the Faroe Islands, has been given the authority to negotiate the matter. So for us from the outside, the case is running now, and we're just waiting for a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171753	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Barbara Gaardy's Happy Apol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518171819	Thank you for the floor. It is especially for me to stand here today, not least because this is my first time up here on the platform, but above all because we have to deal with the Kingdom community. And I have to say that many things have happened since the Kingdom Community was last discussed here in the Danish Parliament in 2018, and let me mention just some of them. The countries of the Kingdom Community have jointly held the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers last year, and as recently as yesterday, all three foreign ministers of the Kingdom Community participated in meetings with the current US Foreign Minister. This advocates that the government recognizes the diversity of the countries and that this must, of course, be reflected in the negotiation of Faroese and Greenlandic interests. This is becoming more and more important at a time when the outside world has become more interested in the Arctic region. In the Faroe Islands, as a small island community, we have faced the strange situation that both the United States and China have sent their ambassadors to the Faroe Islands to influence who is to expand the 5G network to the more than 53,000 inhabitants. And it is strange that a small country should have such a great interest from the United States and from China. It is hardly these 53,000 inhabitants who will be enough to turn the figures on the bottom line into either red or black for these major economies. So there is something else at stake: a strategic race on technology and geopolitics. And here the Faroese territory suddenly becomes more interesting because of its location. There are several international eyes on what actions the Faroe Islands are doing and with which nations the Faroe Islands cooperate with. And that is precisely what I would like to talk about today, that is, the interest in which nations the Faroe Islands cooperate with. Sometimes it may seem a little strange to have to enter the Folketing with a Faroese mandate. In any case, I have to say that since the Faroe Islands were given seats in the Folketing, this role has changed a lot. Not a single law dealing with Faroe Islands or Faroese relations is made here. The few drafts, which apply to the Faroe Islands and are dealt with here, will only be dealt with in Lagtinget. In this way, the Faroe Islands have a slightly special position in the Kingdom Community, but we also have a special position in the world. We are part of NATO and yet not. We are on the Arctic Council and yet not. And the day a Faroese chooses to set foot on Danish soil, he or she has the same rights as an EU citizen, without the Faroe Islands being in the EU, because the Faroe Islands are outside the EU as they are outside the EU. We are not in EFTA, for example. Norway and Iceland are. We are not an overseas territory, as for example. Greenland is outside. Nor should there be any doubt that the confidence of the Faroe Islands in the European Union was damaged if I could put it that way in 2013 when the EU launched sanctions against the Faroe Islands against a dispute over fishing quotas. All European ports were closed to Faroese fishing vessels. However, the dispute ended with the EU finally complying with the Faroe Islands' claim to a larger share of fishing quotas. As a consequence of these sanctions from the EU, the Faroe Islands had to find new markets to export to, and with that trade to Russia is beginning to increase. Today, about a quarter of all Faroese exports of goods go to Russia. In the past, the Faroe Islands' trade with Russia has been criticised by Danish politicians, and in part it is a criticism that I understand. In my optics, the Faroe Islands are clearly united with the West and Europe in maintaining democratic societies with respect for basic human rights. In the past year, Russia has repeatedly challenged these same principles. Just to give one example, we have witnessed the imprisonment of opposition politician Aleksej Navalnyj in Russia. So no, I do not think it is true that the Faroe Islands are as closely associated with Russia as we are today. In fact, I believe that there is a real danger that we are developing a relationship of dependency with Russia, and I really wish it were different. A realistic alternative to trade with Russia would be more trade with the European Union, with which we actually share more values. Today we are discussing the Prime Minister's statement on the Kingdom Community. The Prime Minister mentions, among other things: the Faroese economy, and on this occasion it is very timely to mention that better access to the European market would be a great gain for the Faroese economy. Currently, the Faroe Islands are free to export unfinished fishery products to the EU. If this were changed to allow us now also to export finished products, this would include, among other things, that. create an incentive for the processing of fishery products, but it would also create a greater potential for economic growth as well as diversification of the Faroese economy. In addition, this would also help to strengthen relations with the European Union, which must be said to be quite weakened after the sanctions of 2013-14. And, by the way, it would also be a real alternative to Russia. However, it is not only in Faroese interest that trade with Russia is attractive. I would also like to point out that it is in Denmark's diplomatic interest to increase and strengthen its trade with the European Union. As I mentioned earlier, the Faroe Islands have a slightly special position. While Denmark has clearly established that the United States is Denmark's closest ally, this is a little more unclear for the Faroe Islands. On the one hand, we have economic cooperation with Russia; on the other hand, we can be said to have value cooperation with the West. Therefore, it may seem a little strange when one part of the Kingdom community has such a clear position in the world that if another part of the Kingdom community then chose to take the same position, it would mean that it would have fatal economic consequences. There should be no doubt that, in principle, I am not against trade with Russia, as a whole, but the problem for me lies in the dependency relationship that I fear the Faroe Islands are in the process of creating. Nor should there be any doubt that I of course believe that the Faroe Islands should decide for themselves who we are dealing with. However, in line with the limited trade opportunities available to the Faroe Islands, we have ended up in this dependency relationship with a country that does not respect basic human rights. Because this debate is also about human rights and to distance themselves from them when they are violated, because human rights must be universal. Now, I am sorry to say, the fisheries negotiations between the Faroe Islands and the European Union have once again stalled. It is therefore obvious to ask what is going to happen now. Will the Faroe Islands be pushed into the Russian market even more, and what doors will be open to the Faroe Islands in the future? Finally, I would like to acknowledge the Prime Minister's support for the Faroe Islands' desire to modernise trade with the European Union. It is my fervent wish that we can negotiate a free trade agreement together for the benefit of both the Faroe Islands and Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518172631	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a large number of brief comments. The first one's for sir. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518172637	Thank you for that and thank you for a very, very good speech from the rapporteur. It was really good to hear an exciting story with a perspective for the Faroe Islands. Some of what I think goes through the rapporteur's speech is, after all, the positive aspect of the Commonwealth, and we have addressed many aspects which are not so positive today. As I also said to our Greenlandic friends, there are many opportunities in the Kingdom Community. That is also why my question to the rapporteur is this: what does the rapporteur see as an advantage of the Kingdom community, which we can use forward-lookingly and which also benefits the Faroe Islands, that is to say that we three countries are actually united?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518172716	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518172717	Thank you very much for the question. I see a lot of benefits from the Kingdom community. Some of the things that some people have raised here today include: climate change, and I believe that if something really happens and goes across national borders, then it is climate change. Denmark has negotiated an ambitious agreement on climate in place, and in the Faroe Islands we are negotiating a climate agreement and, in my opinion, it is not as ambitious as the Danish one, but I believe that we have a lot to learn and many experiences we can share with each other when it comes to climate negotiations. For the climate negotiations and climate change in my optics are the biggest challenge in the world at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518172804	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518172807	Thank you. It is liberating to meet a rapporteur, strong and talented, from the Faroe Islands, who is a young woman. I did a statistic, and since 1953 there have been 28 men from the Faroe Islands and only three women, and as the rapporteur can see, there are almost only men from the rapporteurs today, and there is of course a female prime minister, and then we have North Atlantic women. Congratulations on your speech, and thank you for that, exciting. I have a question that may be right on the edge of the Commonwealth, but at least very close to what is happening in the Faroe Islands. I have discussed the issue a great deal with Jenis av Rana, who is so much opposed to abortion, and I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about this issue and whether the rapporteur believes that there are some changes in the Faroe Islands, because this is a question on which other countries have long taken a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518172911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518172912	Well, thank you very much for the question. I must first state that my clear position is that of course Faroese women should be allowed to decide for themselves whether or not they want to have an abortion. I myself have recently followed the Danish media, which have tried to create a political debate in Denmark about the Faroe Islands abortion law, and here I also have to state that of course it is the Faroe Islands themselves that have to make that decision. But to the rapporteur's question: No, there is not much going on in this area in the Faroe Islands. We have the same Danish law that we have had since 1956, and there it seems to be no change, and if you ask me, is one of the reasons why it is so difficult a debate. The other day the Prime Minister had among other things: a post on the social media where she wrote that by nature this is a very black and white debate, and I can only agree with that. So that is not possible. So we are on the verge of the gap and discussing it from two points of view, and it is not possible to reach an agreement, and I think that is why we have not reached an agreement on it. It is certainly not possible to reach a consensus on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173019	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173020	The reason I ask is, of course, that the Danish media have taken an interest in this, and some of my colleagues were a little surprised and said: Of course there is free abortion in the Faroe Islands. This is due in particular to the fact that we have seen a number of steps taken in another area, namely the Glbt area and the festival in Thorshavn and other steps towards a more free and open view of sexuality, and it could of course be that it followed there. I hope the best thing is for you to get a movement in the direction that this area can also succeed. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173100	I also really appreciate that you are asking this question, because it also gives reason to show that there are people in the Faroe Islands who are in favour of free abortion and that we are working very hard for it to succeed. I should also like to say that this is not my party's position. That is my personal position. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173119	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173123	Many thanks for an amazingly handsome and also hugely brave speech. You also pay a price for showing courage, so thank you very much for making such a clear speech, also with regard to Russia. I thought that was very refreshing. Just as I asked the rapporteur's colleague from the Faroe Islands, I would like to ask about the radar issue here too, because this is an outstanding issue which we have not, as it were, been closed yet. What is the process in the Faroe Islands, and how do you deal with it? I think it might be interesting to hear about that. But it was a really, really nice first speech... it's really impressive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173203	Thank you. And also thank you for the question. I do not think I quite share the view of my Faroese colleague when it comes to the process of radar. So now it is the case that the Faroese Latting has historically decided to oppose the setting up of a radar on the Faroe Islands, and I believe that if the Latting does not adopt anything else, that position is still valid. That is why I think it would be appropriate for the debate on setting up a Faroese radar to also be something that is being debated in the Latting, of course at a level of principle, so that confidential information does not come out. Now it can be said that this time we actually have a Danish government that has said that it is up to the Faroe Islands to decide whether we want this radar or not, so I think it is a great sin that you do not include the Layting in that process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173256	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173257	Thank you for your answer. I would just like briefly to ask quite openly and curiously about the position on Russia, i.e. whether it is a position that is generally shared in the Faroe Islands and whether it is something that is being discussed. This is really just a curious question, because I think it is quite fundamental for the Faroese economy as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173316	It may be a little complicated to answer that. Overall, as I mentioned earlier, I believe that the relationship between the Faroe Islands, or at least trust in the European Union, was damaged after the sanctions in 2013 and 2014, and it is believed that trade with Russia was launched because Russia was somehow a friend who helped the Faroe Islands, who were in need at that time. I therefore believe that strengthening relations with the European Union, as well as repairing relations with the European Union, will benefit all parties, so that it can be as it was before the sanctions were imposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173348	Well, thank you for that, and then it's Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173350	First of all, of course, I would like to welcome Mrs Barbara Gaardy's happiness Apol in the Folketing. I think it was an exceptionally good speech, in other words very reflective about something that is otherwise so sensitive, namely relations with Russia. We have discussed this several times, including with our Faroese colleagues, and most of the time we have looked back and looked at the last seven years of clashes and rage over why it went so wrong with the European Union, and then why we have to sell to Russia, and just the phrase which was said here that some people in the Faroe Islands have experienced Russia as a friend, can we say with certainty that they were not? They only do so for certain reasons, and it is, of course, to buy the fish and thus to make themselves a little more independent from the sanctions. I really think there were some good reflections about the fact that, on the one hand, there are values in common with the West and, on the other hand, there are now almost becoming dependent on Russia. While the rest of the West is trying to sanction Russia, yes, the Faroe Islands are putting fish there, and I would therefore like to ask a little more about how to use the Commonwealth to withdraw the Faroe Islands to the community of values where you belong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173457	Thank you for the question. After all, Denmark is now a member of the European Union, so it can be said that at least one part of the Commonwealth is within the framework of the European Union, and my wish is that Denmark can somehow help to withdraw this agreement, so that the Faroe Islands can also have better opportunities to trade with the European Union. Because, as I also mentioned, our opportunities to trade with the European Union are currently very limited. So it is certainly my wish that Denmark can pull some strings from the inside of the European Union, which the Faroese Home Rule Government alone cannot do, and that this agreement can be brought home together. I mean, it would be amazing if you asked me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173542	We just got a music scene back. But Mr. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173546	That is absolutely right, and it is rarely in retrospect that the solutions are found, and that is where the Faroese side can be used proactively to get back to the community where you belong, and then, moreover, allow the sanctions against Russia to work. I was wondering whether Mrs Barbara Gaardy's happiness Apol might just say a few words about what I think Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam pointed out very correctly earlier, namely that the kingdom community is such a slightly strange size in that there is mostly relations between Denmark and Greenland and Denmark and the Faroe Islands, but too few relations between the Faroe Islands and Greenland. I think that was quite correct from Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173625	Well, I would say that my knowledge of Greenland, just personally, is very limited, and I also think that if I asked a Greenlander about basic knowledge about the Faroe Islands, he would not know either. Somehow I think that there is a lack of interconnection between the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and I think that one could certainly look at whether there could be some joint projects that we could start with. Sir. Kasper Roug asked me where I replied that I believe that climate is clearly one of the areas on which we should cooperate more, and I think it is very interesting if we could somehow form part of a common forum, or if there were some joint initiatives we could take to stop climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173702	Thank you. And then it's sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173704	Yes, thank you. Thank you for a good speech and thank you for a good maiden speech. This is the first speech made by the rapporteur in the Danish Parliament. At the same time, it is also a record for the Nordic Members; I do not think there have been three ladies at the same time in the Folketing, so it is a record that we have beaten today. Congratulations! In relation to my question, I would like to say that, firstly, I will sign for a good cooperation with Javnaðarflokkurin in the Folketing. We've been working together on criminal justice. And I would like to ask the rapporteur what she thinks is the most important thing when we are going to discuss criminal justice. What are the most important things we need to stress?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173815-2	Thank you very much for your question. Edmund Joensen. First of all, as regards the comment that we are now three women from the North Atlantic, I would just like to point out that I do not hope it will be the case that it is a rare thing in the future, but that it will be as natural that there is a majority of women as there is a majority of men. In relation to the question of criminal justice, we have the challenge in the Faroe Islands that we must balance with this principle of subsidiarity. This means that the Faroese prisoners are not being transported to Denmark to serve, or that at least as much as possible can be reduced, but also that the use of isolation can be reduced by, for example: custody. And it's a hard balance to find. But this principle of subsidiarity is absolutely the most important thing, because as several Faroese families and prisoners have pointed out, it is in many ways a double penalty, that is to say, by being cut off from family and other friends in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173917	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173918	Yes, thank you. Thank you for your answer. Yes, it is very important, because criminal justice is a Danish area which we must ensure gets going well. And it is very important that they are told how the entire committee that we have set up and to which the government has allocated money comes along. So we hope that we will get something good in our hands before we go to negotiations. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518173956	Yeah, thanks for that. And now I also forgot to sign Mr. Edmund Joensen of Sambandsflockkurin for a very good cooperation in criminal justice. So I am also very excited to see for myself what conclusions are reached by this committee and what solutions are to be found. So I'm excited to hear more about it when it's ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174018	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174023	That is a short remark and not so much a question, because I would like to sign for the very good speech and for the rapporteur to have legs in his nose. I think your point came through strongly, and much of it I agree with, although my knowledge of the Faroe Islands is unfortunately very limited. I also hope that with this community that we want to build together, we can find common ground in relation to different things that both the Faroe Islands and Greenland can meet about. I am thinking straight away already that catching and fishing are something where we can agree, and perhaps there are also some points that we can discuss, especially when we talk about climate change, both in terms of how we can preserve our culture, but also in terms of how we adapt to the climate change that has started to happen. But I'd like to congratulate you on your first speech, and I'm also looking forward to working with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174117	Thank you very much to the author. The questioner is absolutely right. Of course, fishing is something that is very fundamental for both our societies, and it is actually strange that there is no more cooperation in this area, that is, in terms of sustainable fishing, but also in terms of technology and not least in relation to climate change. For a large part of the CO2 2 fishing vessels. This is absolutely something we should cooperate more on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174200	Thank you. I have just one reminder to both the questioner and the rapporteur that we have not spoken directly in the Assembly. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174208	I'm sorry, President. Thank you very much for your answers. I also think that the rapporteur, as a young politician, as I am also a young politician, is very concerned about climate, because it is also part of a youth movement. That is why I look forward to having a closer dialogue with the rapporteur on these issues. And thank you again for your speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174238	I would also like to thank the questioner, and I would also like to say yes to more dialogue about climate and how the Faroe Islands and Greenland can cooperate on those issues in the Faroe Islands and Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174257	Thank you so much. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and congratulations on your first speech. And it should not even be remembered that this is the rapporteur's first speech. That's very classy. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and the next to speak is the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174324	Thank you for that and I would also like to welcome Mrs Barbara Gaardy's success in Apol. It is also the new thing that has filled, it must be said, in today's debate: new government in Greenland, and once again congratulations on it; new conditions around the Arctic; new conditions in the context of climate change; and new conditions for a kingdom community, which one must say enjoys great support in the Folketing and, I can see at the advanced time, also occupy the Folketing quite a lot. I am delighted, of course, because if there is no commitment to our Kingdom community at all times, we cannot make it work. I am not going to say so much here at the end of a long debate, because I think we have also seen a certain repetition of well-known positions around the Commonwealth. It is not because it is surprising in itself, but I think that many of the speeches that have been made speak for themselves on long stretches. What is, of course, crucial for me to emphasise is that it is the United States and NATO that are the foundation of the Kingdom's security, and this must of course also be reflected in our view of the Arctic where necessary. And as I have said in other contexts, naivety and foreign policy are two sizes that I would not recommend combining. I think we have had a very good discussion on security policy, including all the balances and nuances that are also on that issue, and I really only feel confirmed in the importance of the Constitution as a framework for continued close dialogue and close cooperation between all parts of the Kingdom community. There has also been a little bit of focus on economics today • not much. The responsibility for the economy, both with regard to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, lies in Greenland and the Faroe Islands respectively, but we will always be prepared by the government to cooperate where it makes good sense. By the way, I am also pleased to say, in conclusion, that there is a focus on climate. We have, I think, some very obvious advantages in the Kingdom community with a combination of very high climate ambitions and it, it can be said, physical presence of climate change, unfortunately, in the Kingdom community to be able to also be a showcase of good and evil in terms of climate change and the great global interest in those issues. Then I would like to conclude by saying that there is of course nothing that is necessarily understood as usual in the sense that I think that what is the strength of our Kingdom community is that it has moved, changed and evolved over time. We have the framework within which we can continue to do so, but of course it requires reciprocity, respect and direct dialogue with each other, both about what brings us together and what divides us from time to time. I really think that the debate today has reflected that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174648	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174650	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister. One of the things that has filled up a bit here today is this talk about better trade agreements for the Faroe Islands and Greenland compared to the EU, especially the Faroe Islands right now, but indeed also about market access to the United States. After all, it is also security policy in the interests of all of us that they have better market access to our allies. Could the Prime Minister say a little about his view of the matter, that is, where we stand, and how the Prime Minister sees the chances that Denmark can succeed in helping the Faroe Islands and possibly Greenland to some better agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174728	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174728-2	There is a great deal of concern both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland in terms of strengthening the economy, including ensuring that the economy has several pillars, and I think this is clearly a right reflection and a right idea. It is clear that trade and export are crucial for both countries, and that is why we will of course both support and engage in dialogue to support further access to trade, for example in EU cooperation. We have close cooperation already today, and if we can do even more, we will gladly do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174803	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174806	Thank you for that answer. I am pleased that this is a focus area for the government. Another thing: the new Greenlandic government has written this in with the idea that they will explore the possibilities for increased cooperation on health care within the Kingdom community to see if, through each other's competences, we can make each other stronger and, above all, solve some of the challenges facing Greenlandic health care. If there is such a request, how does the Prime Minister view the possibility that we can help each other to strengthen Greenlandic health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174837	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174838	Positive. There is already close cooperation in the field of health, and it goes without saying that two countries with an extensive geography, at least for one country, but with a relatively small population, of course, will not be able to have a health service with all the specialties and with all the competences that a modern health service should have. That is why we will always be dependent on cooperation with others, and that cooperation is working quite well today, and it has also worked very well during the Corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174908	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518174909	I think I would agree with the Prime Minister that this has indeed been a long debate. Perhaps it is such a saved talent because we haven't had it since 2018, and then the valves should just be opened today. I would like to ask if the Prime Minister says that the Prime Minister will certainly not recommend combining naivety with foreign policy, and I can only agree with the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister could make a few hints as to why the United States is so keenly interested at all levels to have the dragons thrown inside Greenland? Everything from the consul Sung, who travels the midnight sun black in Greenland and around to all the settlements and cities, to one that we have mentioned, modest financial gift of 82 million. kr., shows it. The gift corresponds to what Denmark sends to Greenland every week; yet it received enormous attention. So when we are not allowed to combine naivety with foreign policy: why do the Yanks really have this going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175005	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175006	There is one, I think, incredibly commendable American interest in Greenland and in relation to the Arctic, which I find quite natural developments in the Arctic considering. I think that is what we need to respond to and we need to assess the situation in the light of the fact that we see a more aggressive approach, for example from the Russian side, in relation to the Arctic. We also see an increasing and persistent Chinese interest. And it is clear that we must respond to that, and I and the Americans do very, very wisely.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175044	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175044-2	But surely we must agree that it is rather naive to believe that this is all they will do, just because they have so gone and become sweet over there on the other side of the Atlantic. Well, I think the Americans are generally quite nice, but that's not what drives them, is it? Well, they have their interests in this. If we are not to combine naivety with foreign policy, then I think we should come up with some analysis of why they are so busy with things from little things to big things. So I would say that it would be naive, I believe, if you cannot see it through. What I really want to ask is just a brief one: the Prime Minister is known for his harsh rhetoric towards Russia and for NATO and the United States. What can we do to tear the Faroe Islands out of the claws of Russia commercially?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175121	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175122	I have to come back to the issue of the United States. Yes, of course the United States has great interests at stake, but they do coincide with Denmark. And in my view they also coincide with the interests of the Kingdom community: to ensure peace, stability, democracy and freedom. It is the most important alliance across the Atlantic; that is what it is based on; that is what it is aiming for; that is what it is striving for. So, yes, the United States has interests globally, but we share interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175151	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175153	Thank you very much. I would just like to sign and thank you for your cooperation and good initiatives. I also saw that the Prime Minister nodded like this during the debate, especially in relation to this issue of securing more knowledge in Denmark about Greenland. I think the government has heard that many times now. Naiveness and foreign policy, I think you too are very much in agreement. These are not two things that are very well connected, and especially now that there is so much focus on the Arctic. Nor do I see Greenland as naive in terms of the foreign policy focus. But I would like to ask you about that proposal for a security policy forum within the Kingdom community. Could it be a form, and if not one imagines a different form, in which dialogue between the three sides could be made even stronger within the Kingdom community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175248	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175249	But there has to be a security policy forum in the Kingdom community, and I believe that we have also worked together between the three governments. It is, of course, part of running a government; it is, of course, when we talk about the Kingdom community, to have an exchange, both of knowledge and of views and of analysis, in terms of security policy. It is both within the framework of defence, foreign policy and security policy and will also be the subject of discussion when, hopefully before the summer recess, a meeting is held.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175321	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175322	It can be said that what is new in what is being presented is, in fact, the need to think about the parliaments. We have examples in Greenland that the principle of co-existence is not necessarily respected, and there are some discussions in the Folketing, where it is not always ensured that Inatsisartut is also sufficiently involved, and I understand that the same applies in the Faroe Islands. So it is at least such an outstanding issue that we have to deal with, with all due respect for the fact that the three governments are, of course, speaking together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175356	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175357	After all, we must constantly relate to the world around us and to the changeability. But we have built up both the parliamentary work and the government work on some rather well-defined institutions when it comes to foreign and security policy, for example the Foreign Policy Name here in the Folketing. I have no idea either whether or not we need to change the basic institutions that I actually assess with regard to foreign and security policy, if we look at it with Danish glasses and, of course, also with the glasses of the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175432	Thank you. Then it's mr. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175434	Thank you. Thank you for a good account of the Kingdom community, and thank you for your cooperation otherwise. I talked a lot about border barriers in my speech and, in order to avoid as many border barriers as possible, I made a suggestion that a category of legislative proposals should be introduced in the future, which mentions whether implementation will have consequences for citizens of the Kingdom Community. This must, of course, apply in all the parliaments, because the barriers are, after all, between the countries. But what does the Prime Minister think? Is this an idea for us to continue working on?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175533	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175533-2	I very much agree that we must seek to resolve the problems that may exist around border barriers. We have a clear interest in our being able to travel within the Kingdom community, live, study, have access to health care, or whatever makes it necessary to travel as smoothly as possible. But my proposal, when we talk about border barriers, will be that we resolve the specific problems that may exist. I think that is a more targeted approach to the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175605	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175606	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. Frontier barriers of this kind are, in fact, petites, and this has hardly any impact on parliaments or on the financial laws. But it is extremely important for the individual who is stranded between countries, whether it be a pension or a disease or what it is. That's why it's so important that we hunt these border barriers. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175641	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175642	I agree with that. I also believe that it is vital and crucial for and in a community of kingdoms that we can travel, work, study etc. in a way in which we are not prevented where we should not be prevented. One is, of course, the situation around the covid-19, which has led to quite different conditions, also in the internal travel activity of the Kingdom community. But in a covid-19-free time, if you like, I and the government are also concerned that there should be no border barriers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175716	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Prime Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposal for adoption will take place on Thursday 20 May 2021, as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175745	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518175800	Thank you, President. Thank you for the motion for a resolution and thank you for focusing on vulnerable citizens and their rights in the field of distance selling. Some sympathetic and relevant views are behind the proposal. I'd like to sign for that. Firstly, it is the proposers' wish to invalidate agreements if they are concluded with persons registered on the so-called Robinson List, which is a registration in the CPR register. All Danes can register if they do not want unsolicited advertisements in the mailbox or phone calls from sellers. Secondly, it is a wish of the proposers to render agreements void if a person has a mark with a credit warning in the CPR register. Thirdly, the proposers want funds to be set aside for an information campaign aimed at citizens and businesses. There are unscrupulous salesmen out there who are addressing difficult transparent offers, and they need to be built up against them. The government therefore agrees that it is important to focus on whether the rules on consumer protection are sufficiently effective, just as it is important for all consumers to have the protection to which they are entitled, including those citizens who may find it difficult to say 'no', or vulnerable citizens who find it difficult to understand what they are saying 'yes' to. However, the amendments proposed by the proposers will have a far-reaching impact on the rules we have today, and so I can say straight away that the resolution, like this one, does not have the government's support in the short term. In our opinion, the matter calls for further investigation. Citizens already have the opportunity to protect themselves from unwanted distance selling. However, if you are registered on the Robinson List, traders must never contact someone without consent. This is clear from the rules of the Marketing Act. It is the trader's responsibility to check whether the citizen concerned is registered on the Robinson List. If a trader nevertheless calls a citizen even if he is on the Robinson list, it is a violation of the Marketing Act and it can be fined. I would also like to mention the organisation of the market in credit provided for in the CPR Act. The scheme was introduced in 2016 as part of the desire to strengthen efforts to combat identity theft, which we must, in parentheses, discuss in a different context before long. Under the CPR Act, anyone who has reached the age of 15 may have a registration with credit warning entered in the CPR register. The scheme is particularly intended as a tool for citizens who have, for example, been stolen from their passports or driving licences, but all citizens can use the scheme, including particularly vulnerable groups. With the selection, the citizen can warn companies against granting credit in their name. A credit warning may thus act as a signal to banks and companies that they must pay particular attention to identity checks before granting any loan or credit. The importance of an entity's credit warning mark in the CPR is not regulated by the CPR Act and it is up to each entity to decide whether the entity wishes to grant a loan or credit to a person with credit warning. So that is the state of law today. However, our rules must be in line with time and reflect a reasonable balance between, on the one hand, the concern for the consumer, on the other hand, the economic operators and, on the other hand, of course, in society more generally. That is a relevant point, I think, that some citizens find it difficult to say away from salesmen, telephone sellers, perhaps in particular. It can also be difficult to understand the consequences of distance selling. If, as a citizen, you have actually taken the precaution of registering on the Robinson list, it is of course not right if it is not respected. However, I believe that it is possible to question whether we should attach automatic invalidity to agreements on this basis and whether such an amendment should be made to the contract law. The proposed changes will have implications for the current rules on the Robinson List and the credit warning mark in the CPR. Such changes should only be made after more in-depth studies where the relevant ministries, for example: or perhaps primarily the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Housing and Home Affairs, and stakeholders in the trade organisations are involved. As far as the marking system in the CPR is concerned, the scheme was introduced with the aim of strengthening the fight against identity theft or abuse, as I mentioned earlier, not to help citizens with problems of their own debt. Therefore, the scheme is also voluntary. Businesses must assess their own importance in marking a credit warning. On the other hand, the proposed changes suggest that companies are obliged to check the CPR register for a mark, otherwise an agreement would be invalid. Such a change would lead to fundamental changes in the scheme and would require companies to examine the CPR register. It is the view of the Ministry of Justice that this has not been the purpose of the scheme, and it is doubtful whether it will be compatible with our EU legal obligations. As far as the Robinson List is concerned, I would like to acknowledge that it may be appropriate to consider whether civil sanctions should be imposed if a trader does not check the list. For consumers, of course, should be able to expect that if they have registered on the Robinson list, they will not be contacted by the seller with one or the other offer. So the question is, how do we best link the rules together? It is my view that this should not take the form of an amendment to the contract law, and that is why I would like to launch my official work in cooperation with the Ministry of Business and Industry to examine this part of the Robinson List issue. Finally, there is the question of an information campaign informing citizens and businesses of the rules governing distance selling. It is the proposer's wish that funds should be set aside for such a campaign under the auspices of the Consumer Ombudsman, who is part of the Ministry of Industry. Once again, and I would really like to acknowledge the intentions behind the proposal, and perhaps we should look at further work to see whether there is easily accessible information for citizens about distance selling and whether it can be done better. So I will certainly not rule out in advance that a campaign may be relevant. With the proposal, the proposers require the government to submit legislative proposals in the coming parliamentary year. In my view, as I have explained, a possible legislative proposal calls for further consideration and I find it difficult to see that this is something that we need to push forward. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Having said that, however, I am in favour of the intentions behind the proposal, because it is important to ensure that consumer law rules are in line with time and provide consumers with high levels of protection. Of course, protection for particularly vulnerable groups is even more important. That is why we will begin to examine the need and possibilities for ensuring compliance with the rules in the Robinson List. I hope that in this way we will be able to find out whether consumers today have sufficient protection against unwanted requests. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518180603	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518180606	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased that the Minister recognises that there is a problem and will also set something in motion. After all, I think that is very good. But I really find it hard to understand why the Minister thinks that if you now have some registers that you register with, because you cannot be contacted, the agreement that you have entered into must nevertheless be valid. This is about the most vulnerable citizens. It's people with dementia, it's people with cognitive disabilities, and it's people with autism who are tricked into signing subscriptions or handing over their NemID, and when they're registered in this register, it just has no legal effects; they're still stuck on the deal. I simply cannot understand that. We have just made an agreement to criminalise identity theft, and I think that is very good, but I find it hard to understand that it should not really have any legal effects, that you are in a register. There is a valid purchase agreement anyway. Can the Minister explain that to me?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518180711	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518180712	Yeah, at least I can try to do that. Basically, I think that we should look at the starting point we come from in Denmark, which is a very healthy starting point, namely that there is freedom of agreement, that the parties themselves choose the form of agreement, etc., and that it is therefore a considerable burden to say that if there is a register and you have not been checked, there will be invalidity. In other words, this is something that we have a very high tax on, so that we have this freedom of agreement in the legal regulation in Denmark. But that is not the same as the fact that the problem is not right. There may be some people at risk, as I said during the speech, and there may be uneven relations between the parties, etc., that make it necessary to ensure that special protection is provided there, and that is also why I say that work may be needed to look at how we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518180811	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518180812	Well, right here, the citizen doesn't want contact. When that happens anyway and the citizen has a disability, the citizen is just enormously poor. It is a strange form of freedom to defend, that is, that that agreement should be valid anyway. There are simply relatives who are struggling immensely with breaking up the agreements subsequently because the company says: we have a valid agreement. I see, but the company hasn't looked into these two registers, where for example. Your old mother's registered, and she's signed three subscriptions. I simply cannot understand the Minister's insistence on this being a valid agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518180852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518180852-2	But I also recognise the problem. I also think it has to be said that in Denmark there are millions of agreements that I had almost said every day, but there probably isn't. Yet it is true, a great many agreements, and it will be a considerable burden to load onto our business community if we say that all agreements should be checked in that and that register. It may be relevant, but it may also be that there are some other ways to do it, which will be better at achieving the goal without having exactly the same load.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518180924	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments. The Minister may just prepare for his party colleague, because we are now embarking on the series of rapporteurs, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518180949	Thank you. Unfortunately, there are people in this country who are being fooled by ferocious types of salesmen who carelessly, but in some kind of rush and with a desire to defraud someone calling people and trying to sell them all sorts of things. Some of them are so talented that they could sell sand in the Sahara as it is called. Unfortunately, there are people who are going to enter into agreements because they may not really have the defense that you might want them to see through what is going on. That is why this motion for a resolution is right, in the sense that there is a real problem that we need to look at, and I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Justice actually responds to it by saying that we have to look at what legal effects it can have if you, as a salesman, are not informed in the Robinson List. I guess that's where we are. There is therefore a real problem, because there are, in fact, some people who are exposed to something that is completely unsympathetic and who may even try to protect themselves against it, but are not quite successful with it anyway. There are companies that take advantage of it, and that is why we need to try to investigate how we can deal with it. That's a good thing. We cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands with all the explanations that the Minister of Justice has mentioned, but we would like to recognise the SF in order to address once again something that is important for many people and that we will then have to look at how we can proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181129	Thank you for that, there are no brief comments to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181142	Thank you. First of all, I am also speaking on behalf of the Party of New Citizens who could not be here today. It is the case for small parties that there are plenty of meetings at Christiansborg, and one has to give priority, so my speech also covers New Citizens. I want to start by thanking the SF. It is so rare that we here in the Folketing have the opportunity to take a position on civil matters. We are dealing solely with punishment and criminal law and disqualifications, and I do not know what, whereas what is going on in society is that people often and often take legal action against each other, where they cannot get their demands implemented at all, because there is no place in the courts at all. Or there could be situations where there are quite unreasonable aspects to the Danish contract law, and that is one of the issues here, and thank you very much to the SF for bringing it up. I can already say that we do not support it, but we are 100% sure that we are entering into a sensible report on this, so that we can speed up the process here, because there is no doubt that the SF is onto something to put it bluntly. Then there will be no more praise for the SF in this speech, I can say. Let's see. According to Article 31 of the contract law, an agreement may be disregarded if one has cheated or otherwise exploited a pressured person, to put it in Danish, and it is then the provision that SF wants extended to include distance selling to persons who have sat down on the Robinson list, it is the one with no thanks to sales calls etc., or persons who have put a credit warning into the CPR register. In this respect, I would point out that there is already a 14-day right of withdrawal from distance selling to consumers, as is clear from the Consumer Agreement Act, but that is not enough, of course, if it is a demented consumer, because then it will not help. The next thing we can say is that today it is forbidden to enter into these agreements or to correct these requests, but there I must say that it may well be that it is strictly criminally prohibited and could incur a fine, but without having looked into it, I have my doubts as to how much this system is enforced at a time when the prosecution authority has much more to worry about. That is why I do not think that there is anything at all to prevent this practice from taking place today, to put it bluntly. The fact that the Left is unable to vote in favour of the proposal here is precisely due to what the Minister of Justice said here. It is a huge issue that we have before us, and it requires further investigation. After all, it is an issue which means that if I sign something, I usually have to be bound by the agreement I have reached, but after this proposal I can then invalidate my signature, I was just about to say, by adding myself to the lists in question. So it is a big potato to take in your mouth if we do what is stated in this proposal by automatic means. We already have rules on non-enforcement, and there is a public announcement that agreements can no longer be reached. I certainly do not want to rule out the fact that we are going to be about the same way here, but it is basically far-reaching rules that we have, and I think that we should unite and I could also hear that the Social Democrats and the Minister were not stranger to the idea of getting a job started to ensure that these situations cannot arise. I have to say that when I read the newspaper articles attached to the proposal by the library, in which the seller exploits demented people, I have to say this very, very mildly. So no from the Left, but yes to a report that gets a boost on the extensive work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181605	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181608	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased that the Left also recognises that there is a problem. I would say that I have made this proposal together with a number of organisations, and they point out precisely that these people would rather not be placed under the age of authority, they would actually like to have the opportunity, perhaps together with a settlement grant, to be able to reach an agreement. But where the problem arises, for example. in Central Jutland region, where there are 400 residents at autism settlements who are contacted by people who derail them their NemID information and of course do so in order to conclude economic agreements. If such a citizen is in the credit warning system, is it not reasonable that when a company does not check whether that citizen is there, the agreement is invalid? In other words, we are not doing a little business here, would I say: we do not have to check it anyway, we do have a register, but it does not really matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181712	Well, I can easily follow the thinking, but now Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt says it precisely with the words that it is people who prefer not to be brought to justice. No, but after the proposal here, what is happening? But then they are almost exposed to what is worse than being deprived of authority, because then there is per. the fact that their signature is not binding. So I think we need to look at the rules that apply to the issue of non-engagement, and they also need to be looked through well, they are so complex that you think it is a lie, but we are also happy to take part in that work. Having said that, there are also situations in which the people concerned would like to conclude an agreement, and if it is perhaps a sensible agreement, it should also be able to be made binding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181758	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181759	That is precisely why we propose in the proposal that we have a period of reflection of 14 days, a little like that for real estate transactions, and then we can accede to the agreement, so I really think we have taken some account of it. But I would like to hear what the Left thinks it took to support changes in this system. What kind of thoughts does the Left have that could be dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181826	Thank you very much for the question. There are now 29 seconds to explain how we can revolutionize the provisions of the contract law in this area. I would like to spare the House the opportunity to listen to this, so I would just like to say to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt that we are quite clear. Mrs Karina Lorentzen should be pleased with the position of the Left. We're quite ready to take a look at this because SF has a real problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181857	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left, and I would like to thank him. Preben Bang Henriksen just getting ready? For the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is on the verge of jumping and we must prepare for him. Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518181922	When the Legal Rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Skaarup, who cannot be present today, has been instructed to read his speech, which reads: In the Danish People's Party we welcome the proposal from the SF. This is an interesting and sympathetic proposal. We therefore fully agree that defenceless people must be protected from cynical salesmen, so the objective is good enough. However, whether this proposal completely hits the nails will have to be examined in greater detail during the committee procedure, where the details can be looked at in the seams. For example, the comments make it clear, and I quote: " Similarly, it is proposed that agreements on subscriptions or goods on credit may be reversed if the buyer has a credit warning in the People's Register - and this fact has not been discussed in the context of the conclusion of the agreement'. Will this be enough? If we are talking about vulnerable citizens, it will probably be quite easy for a smart salesman to get through this very big needle's eye. You can also read the following, and I quote again: "Sellers may give people with the warning a copy of all documents and only accept the customer's acceptance after 14 days. This allows time and peace for the potential customer to review the documents with a family member or acquaintance and be sure of the content of the contract. But do you think vulnerable citizens, demented or disabled, will sit down with a family member and go through this? Or maybe it'll just be for the 14 days until the seller calls again? You can be in doubt. So, overall, there are good intentions, but it is not certain that in practice the proposal will make the crucial difference. However, all of us will now look at the committee procedure and, once again, thank you very much for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518182127	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518182157	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for putting forward this proposal, which is, of course, in its headline: •Improving legal certainty for vulnerable citizens who enter into financial commitments under false pre-conditions. And that headline is, of course, somewhat difficult to disagree with as such, and so far I have heard everyone in this debate agree with that. It is clear that when you have the title of legal certainty, then of course it always gives the Christmas light in the eyes of a radical legal rapporteur, and I, like the motion for a resolution, was quite appalled when last year I read this article about the Aller-seller exploited woman with dementia from the Danish Handicap Forum. Because it is obviously unfair when people who are very socially vulnerable are called down on quick loans or inappropriate long subscriptions or something that, it may be said, is at least unfairly included in the agreement. That's why we have, among other things. Paragraph 31 of the contract law, which regulates this issue of agreements concluded with people who have particular difficulties or where it can be said that someone has somehow exploited it by virtue of the other person, and we would like to help to see how it can be improved. It may be that it is exactly what has been proposed here, in relation to section 31 of the contract law, whether it is too narrow and that some enlargements need to be made in relation to it, but it may also be that there are some other things that need to be done. Whether or not this is the only thing that can be done, I find it difficult to say at this stage. So what we are saying today is yes to help seek ways of improving legal certainty for vulnerable citizens who enter into financial commitments under false conditions. However, we do not wish to commit ourselves in advance to precisely these two additions to the contract law, because we would like to be open to what else might be possible to address this very relevant and important issue, and that is why, at the end of my speech, I would like to thank the SF for presenting the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518182429	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur, as I can see in the Chamber, is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Mads Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518182446	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the SF for the proposal. A number of things have already been said. I can put it this way that, before I came in here, I have worked a lot with sales, and when I say this, people usually say that they didn't really doubt that. I don't know if it's something about the appearance or how, but some of what I've learned from several sales courses is always what you can say, the good sales, and I have so... work as a real estate agent, where among other things: You know, this legal thing is a pretty big and central thing. But in addition to that, of course, it should not be possible to sell subscriptions, make them here, what can you say, direct sales to, for example. This is something we as a community should be careful of, and certainly not if it appears from a Robinson list. A great deal has already been said about a possible model, and what I was thinking about when I was sitting and preparing myself was that it must be possible to find a model in which we can both take care of these citizens and ensure that they are not exposed to these things, and at the same time also ensure that they actually have the opportunity to buy products in the way that everyone else is doing, as I thought Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt pointed out in her question earlier and, incidentally, also in the proposal. At the same time, we must also look at the fact that it should not, of course, create some new model for running away from agreements that have been concluded as an ordinary citizen, and that is why there are some things that need to be investigated. After all, I am still a little new in the game in here, and the study of things is being used very much and large chromed studies, and I really think the proposal is a good one, and we are, in fact, also positive about the proposal. Perhaps it would make sense to invite representatives from industry to discuss how to avoid some of these imbalances that could arise and that they are not taken hostage by ordinary consumers. At least we could find that exciting. However, as I said, we are in favour of the proposal, and it smells a bit like a report that could be landed, and we are very happy to take it and, of course, look forward to the discussions in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518182702	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. Then there are no more rapporteurs in the Chamber, apart from the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518182719	Thank you and thank you for a fine debate. There is actually a lot of recognition that there is a problem here and we need to do something. So I hope that we will have some solutions to that, even though it may not be the solution that lies here. When we in the SF have made this proposal, it is because we are extremely concerned about people with cognitive disabilities and dementia who are at risk of becoming prey to extortionists or fraudsters. So the proposal here was intended to protect these very vulnerable groups economically, and we actually think it is urgently needed. I would like to give a few examples of why this proposal is needed. In February it was reported that virtually all settlement offers for autists across the Region of Central Jutland have been subjected to a coordinated attack by impostors who tried to lure NemID and banking information out of the residents. In four cases, the scammers have succeeded in fooling some of these vulnerable people who, after all, find it hard to understand what they are being exposed to. They are at risk of having the bill themselves because they have, technically speaking, provided the information themselves. If they are then in such a register, where they say that no loan should be made in their name, I think it is a little strange that there is no necessarily consequence in companies not looking into this register and finding that we should not enter into an agreement here. After all, they have the possibility of registering in a credit warning system, and that is one which then warns against issuing loans to them. After all, it will protect them from a situation where they exactly hand over their NemID. If only the companies were then obliged to look into the system and act on the information that was there. But that is not the case, and therefore people with cognitive disabilities are at risk of being cheated and deceived, and their naive gullibility is exploited. I think that is reprehensible, and that is why I really think that companies should be obliged to look at this register, and if they do not do so and issue a loan anyway, they will have to hang on to the bill themselves. I am thinking that it will provide an incentive not to issue loans or give credits. That is the one thing we are proposing. But there is also the similar problem with the Robinson List. Because unfortunately we see cases of eager telephone sellers who have come to either knowingly or unconsciously it is not possible to know how to sell subscriptions to people, such as: is cognitively influenced by dementia and therefore do not quite know what it is they are contributing to. But at least the fact is that in several cases relatives struggle very much to dissolve these subscriptions to things that the elderly can neither afford nor need. It happened, for example. for the 81-year-old Inger, who was even on the Robinson list, which means that you should not be contacted by telephone sellers. The list was supposed to protect vulnerable people, but it does not, because there are no consequences by selling to those on the list anyway. So Inger's daughter experienced that the mother had suddenly received a subscription to the Family Journal, Out &amp; Home &amp; Image-Bladet, and because the bills had not been paid, it ended up with a collection and a subpoena. The case of Inger Kristensen is far from the only one. In fact, over recent years, the Consumer Ombudsman has seen a marked increase in the number of complaints about illegal telephone sales. In 2019 there were 966 complaints, by 2020 there were 1,030 complaints, so this is increasing. In several of these cases, companies contact people even though they are on the Robinson List as in the case of Inger Kristensen. In fact, on 29 April of this year, the Consumer Ombudsman has reported to the police the company called Verisure that is such an alarm company for illegal calls to 57 consumers and 2 sole proprietor companies that are on the Robinson List. The point is that if you are cognitively affected, you will not find your way to the Consumer Ombudsman, and that is simply not working. I think that this is a legal situation which is an insult to vulnerable citizens and their relatives, who often have to run aground between companies, authorities and organisations in order to sort this situation out. At the end of the day, as I have said, the vulnerable citizen is at risk of being on the bill himself. I think the system is far too toothless. The only right thing, I think, would be for agreements with citizens on these lists to be automatically null and void. Then it will be much easier to protect yourself from the fraudsters. I have, of course, discussed this proposal with a number of organisations, and it was very important for them that citizens with disabilities should not be deprived of more than necessary authority, because many of them already live with major interventions in their lives. That is also why we have proposed that the citizen can continue to hold onto a loan or a purchase after a short period of reflection, when there is an opportunity to discuss it, for example. with the settlement support or next of kin. If you go that way, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen spoke of the possibility of having to give up voting rights, but that is one consequence. It can be said that if you are not under authority, you also have an opportunity to say that you can withdraw from a credit warning system if that is what you would like. So I think there are some clear advantages in not going down the path of non-enhancement, and that is why we really think that this proposal had the right balance. The question then is who is it that we have to take into account here. Is it the companies that should avoid running into bureaucratic rules, or are they actually the citizens who have said: No, you should not contact me, you should not make loans with me? I think it's the last of it. I am, of course, pleased that the Minister will look at it and do something, and now we will have a committee that looks into it. Fortunately, I often find the Minister approachable. I think it remains to wait for the Minister's committee to report and then I hope that we will be able to provide better protection in relation to these groups of people. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518183411	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518183429	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Industry. I will see where the rapporteur for the proposers is now, so I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518183529	Thank you very much, President. And thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the debate here today. What we are discussing is a motion for a resolution aimed at getting more Danes to take holidays at home, for example. to reduce the total CO2 of the Danes Therefore, the proposers propose that the government prepare a scheme that provides financial incentives to take climate-friendly holidays in Denmark, and two types of action have been identified in this context. First of all, it is proposed that an offer of cheap travel passes, orange tickets and free ferry services should be offered, much of the same as the summer package we adopted last year and, secondly, a deduction-based scheme should be proposed, whereby some transport and accommodation costs can then be deducted from its taxes, and this could be in connection with the rental of a summer house or the cost of trains, and this should then take place with progression in the deduction system, which then makes it cheaper, the greener the holiday form is. The government agrees with the proposers, at least in that it is important that good opportunities for climate-friendly holidays are created in Denmark, and several of the ideas mentioned in the motion for a resolution are in fact very much in line with what the government has already proposed. The government, for example, has... in our proposal for an infrastructure plan introduced a summer travel pass which allows travel free in Denmark for eight consecutive days for a lump sum. It is a proposal that must be seen in the light of it, one must say, great success that was with the travel pass when we made the summer package last year, which the government then wants to make permanent. This in itself will increase the incentive to choose public transport during the summer holidays. After all, there is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, which has agreed in what is called the "Rammean om plan for re-opening of Denmark" that a new summer package should be negotiated, which should be targeted at culture and the experience industry, and which can help make it attractive to take a holiday at home in lovely Denmark. On 6 May, the government presented its proposal for a summer and business package with a total economic volume of 1.6 billion. kr., and it will help to kickstart our tourism business and get started in the Danish summer. We suggest from the government as part of the summer and business package that it should be easier and cheaper to travel around the summerland, so that the Danes can go on holiday in our cities, on the coasts and on the many lovely islands we have in Denmark. The specific initiatives in the summer package are currently being discussed between the parties of the Folketing and the government right now, and I have actually just left the negotiations to go on the platform here, but it is clear that it will of course also be possible here to be inspired by last year's summer package, for example. Free ferries were a great success. The travel passes were sold out in a week, and I think we all fell in love again in many of the lovely places that are holidaying in our own country. So I think that the mood is not least in connection with the summer package, but also in general is both with the proposers and with the government and the other parties of the Danish Parliament who want to promote holidays in lovely Denmark. In addition, I would also like to mention that the government has set in motion a work on a new national strategy for sustainable growth in Danish tourism in the slightly longer term under the auspices of what is called the National Tourism Forum, and in that work there will be a focus on developing the tourism and experience product, so to speak, to make it more sustainable and thus create incentives for both Danish and foreign tourists to have a more climate-friendly holiday when choosing a holiday in Denmark. We believe that it is in itself something that will attract more visitors to Denmark if the long-term plan for tourism becomes greener and therefore also more sustainable. So it can be said that more initiatives have already been taken to get more people to take a climate-friendly holiday and with Denmark as a starting point. That is how far I believe we share many of the ambitions and visions with the proposers. On the other hand, I must say that we, as a government, do not believe that the proposed initiatives in the field of taxation are the right way to go. We do not believe that this is the right way to go in relation to getting more people to take holidays in Denmark, and at the same time we must also say that there are some practical challenges with the proposals. For example, the EU's regulatory framework does not mean that one of the proposals here can provide a tax rebate for the costs of renting holiday homes in Denmark without, at the same time, having to provide the same tax credit for the costs of renting holiday homes in the rest of the EU. So it is difficult to see how such a scheme should increase the incentive to specifically use Denmark as its holiday destination. At the same time, I would just like to point out that it would be very difficult to manage schemes where a deduction should follow how green a journey or a holiday is. So if I am going to try to bring it together a little, I would say that overall, from the government's point of view, we have already taken a number of initiatives to create good opportunities for a climate-friendly holiday. Now we will negotiate with the parties of the Folketing on this when we negotiate the summer and business package. Furthermore, as a government, we do not believe that the deductible scheme is particularly suitable for getting more Danes to take climate-friendly holidays in Denmark. We cannot therefore support the resolution itself, but we look forward to the good solutions that can emerge from the current negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184127	Thank you. And there is a brief comment. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184130	Yes, thank you. And I would like to thank the Minister for a positive presentation, in which I welcome the fact that this was the case last year and will probably be the case this year with the package that is now being negotiated. I am thinking that this proposal would in any case not be able to be implemented this summer, but next summer. And there I think this would be very good for the tourist industry and for the industry, for the islanders and for the transport industry, and for who else is happy to know in the future what it is you are going into. So does the Minister not think that there could be any value in taking a decision as early as now on what it actually looks like to the future? How do we use the good experiences we have had here during the coronatide to also carry them forward in 2022 and forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184226	Yes, I certainly agree that it is wise to make a summer package again this year. Firstly, there was a huge success over the last year, and secondly, it spread out tourism. We used Denmark as a holiday country incredibly well, both for the climate, but also for the more vulnerable part of our economy, which the small islands are and which our outermost regions are. What we did was really good. It is therefore wise that we should do something similar again this year. And then I also agree that, in addition to what we do in crisis management terms, and in relation to the same period last year and this year, we must also have a longer aim. And that is where I say that this work has been set in motion in the National Tourism Forum. It is actually sustainability that is at the heart of it, not only on the basis of a green agenda, but also because we can see that the trend in international tourism points towards this being something that you will also be looking for as a travel attraction for many foreign tourists, and which will thus make Denmark a still attractive tourist destination. So we agree that there must be something in the short and long term and both are in progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184334	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184335	Yeah, and that sounds great. Then I would like to hear about one thing quite specifically in relation to transport, i.e. cheaper transport. Well, now there has been free ferry crossing to the islands. Is that something that is considered in what is coming forward, so we see something like that in 2022, 2023 and 2024 etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184358	In other words, there is at least a very clear focus on the transport part, both in relation to the government's own proposal for an infrastructure proposal, where I mentioned it here with such a more permanentisation of travel passports. And we also have a focus in the summer package on seeing that we had huge success with both DSB Orange tickets and travel passes and ferries. Whether there is any of the things that could be included in a summer package this year, we are currently debating, and there are certainly interesting issues here. And then the National Tourism Forum must find the right way to go and how deep the infrastructure is there, I cannot say at this stage. But I think that in the work of the forum there is a broad view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184438	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the turn of the rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184456	Thank you. I must first of all thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for presenting it here, because it is a very good discussion to have in relation to holidays in Denmark and also climate-friendly holidays. It has to be said that in many ways the summer of 2020 was different from many other summers that I have at least experienced in my life, or that is to say: apart from the corona, it was very similar to the summers that I actually experienced in the 1960s here in Denmark. I can see that at least a few of my colleagues in this Chamber remember the same thing. At that time we spent many days on the Danish beaches. We visited family in Denmark, and we went exploring the Danish summer country. It wasn't so much about flying around the world. That in itself is sustainable and climate-friendly. Some of the experiences we saw in 2020 with free ferry tickets and cheap access to cultural offers and cheap tickets to the trains have actually been noted in the Social Democratic Party. And we are quite satisfied with the approach of the government, which in fact many of the parties also have, in relation to both the short and the long track to strengthen the incentive and the opportunity to take a holiday in Denmark. So in that part of the resolution deals precisely with what we are sympathetic to, that is fine, but we see the proposal as unnecessary, since the government is already working on the points mentioned in the resolution. However, in relation to the part of the proposal which deals with tax credits, I have to report passports because we would actually rather see a system similar to the one we saw last year, where prices are being adjusted and where it is the consumers who choose from it. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184708	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184710	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for his positive approach to this challenge. This can help reduce social inequality because it allows everyone to go on holiday, whether you have money or not, largely. In relation to the negotiations that are under way and that will also come forward, do you involve the tourism industry and use local experience to get this done so that it really becomes useful at many levels? Because it is precisely this that it can benefit people who are going on holiday, but it can also benefit local areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184754	Now I'm not directly involved in the negotiations.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And there I get regular calls and I think others in the committee are doing so from those organisations with good suggestions as to what you might think you should do, for example. in relation to what the questioner has also mentioned earlier about ferries, etc. So it's perfectly natural for us to take care of it too. I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184833	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184834	Thank you. Yeah, I know. It is primarily to the benefit of the island communities that this scheme has been there. However, there are some who have problems getting back and forth with the ferry because it is overbooked. Is it also part of the negotiations to relate to what can be done, so it is also nice to be resident on the islands and you can get to the rest of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184904	I now thought that this was for the benefit of many parts of Denmark as a whole. Where it didn't really benefit was in the big cities. And if you are going to be a little naughty, you can say that they have invested a great deal on cruise ships and Chinese, and there were not so many of them last year, and that is not going to happen this year, so you also have to sit down on it. But in terms of how to ensure that traffic is done properly, whether it is large or small islands or where it is, I would like to say, as I mentioned earlier, that there we have received good reports from the organisations out there, in terms of how we could do things a little differently, for example. It may well be that you have to have cheaper ferries, but that it may not be only for one month you have to distribute it on a larger part of the season etc. I think that is certainly on the table where negotiations are being held at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184949	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518184957	There was one thing I forgot to say. I'm sorry. I have promised to say from the Radicals that they also have to reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518185003	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we shall have the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Peter Juel-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518185019	Thank you for that, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the debate. I would like to start by saying that, unfortunately, the Left cannot support the proposal. However, we share the intention, because even when we are going on vacation, we have to think about the climate. But we are convinced that the individual and the individual family can consider being climate conscious even when they are on summer holidays. We do not need a directive from Christiansborg for that. As far as I know, negotiations on a future summer package will start soon. That is where my party participates, because we are always involved in constructive things, and this can therefore help to push rural areas in the right direction. I do not quite know how to understand the proposal here. Should deduction only be made if DSB is used? What about all the private and regional bus routes? What about the long-distance bus routes and all the other forms of public transport that transport people around the countryside and to and from our islands? It is the case that there are only rails for the big cities. So we do not have so many of them in rural areas. There it is the regional bus traffic. These are the good old diesel buses which, of course, we also have to make sure can get around. It is also public transport. It is therefore very important that future initiatives in this area should not distort competition. As a Bornholmer I would also like to advertise a little for DAT, Danish Air Transport flights to Bornholm, as far as I know, is this the best way to travel to Bornholm if it is exclusively CO 2 Are the proposers ready to also give this connection support on an equal footing with DSB and the ferries to the islands? 'Cause I guess it's the climate that's driving this proposal. The same machines use the same company for a number of other destinations around the Danish summer country, and I hope, of course, that the proposers are ready to look at the climate in connection with the transport here as well. DAT's machines come in as a very clear CO2 Our larger cities also experienced the worst summer in the summer of 2020. Many hotels and attractions are stuck with the edge of the nails, and we also need foreign tourists, just as the Danes need to travel out. Of course, we must be able to do this in a climate-friendly way. We are not in the finish line, but we are on our way, and the development is going furiously fast, and lure me, within a few years we can travel by plane in a quite climate-friendly way. The climate effect of this proposal cannot be measured, but as a country we can gather together on the initiatives that enable us to live on and live with a steadily increasing concern for our climate and, as I said, we are very well on the way in many ways. At first sight, I find it difficult to see the reason why this proposal has ended up in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands. If we had followed the committee's consultation on the effects of the summer package, it would also have been taken down that the islands are very much in demand for predictability and planning, which, of course, was also the reason for tabling the motion for a resolution on the full implementation of the principle of road transport, because they would then be able to adapt to it on the islands and create the jobs that are the basis for increased settlements, for growth and development, but the majority would rather live from hand to mouth on the islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518185404	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518185406	Thank you. In relation to public transport, we have written that it is trains, but it is clear that all public transport could easily be included from our point of view. And if it were the case that there was support for it, we could also see on the flight route from Copenhagen to Bornholm, because it is not climate neutral to sail at all if it is not an electric ferry. However, it is often very short distances that you sail. In relation to the aid packages, I imagine that the Left will join them again. Does the rapporteur not see any value in the fact that the island communities and the whole tourism industry have a long-term plan for how it is going to progress to continue supporting people on holiday in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518185503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518185504	Yes, I do, but I also know islanders well enough to know that they can not only earn their money in June, July and August. If you live on an island, you also need to eat the rest of the year. You also need to heat your home. Therefore, it is not enough that there are jobs three months a year. This is not the best way to help our islands in my world. It would have been to implement the full principle of road transport, which the Left proposed less than a month ago, so that on the islands there was an opportunity to hire staff, to buy café tables and to provide the logistics that makes it possible to accept that great reputation, instead of offering cheaper ferry tickets for a very short period of time a year, and then there are a lot of disgruntled customers, because the islands cannot cope with the rage that is coming. It would have been better to spread out the season, create a full-year job and make it attractive to live on our islands because you could support yourself. Now it is a very short period of time, and then the young university student will be travelling out and there will be a short period of time, and then they will leave again. That is not how we create settlement; that is not how we create full-year jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518185611	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518185631	Thank you very much. As our rapporteur on this subject, Mrs Hjermind Dencker, unfortunately cannot be present at the moment, I have been instructed to read her speech. We are delighted as a rural party that, due to corona, many more chose to visit the Danish rural areas and islands by 2020. Backed up by island passes and free ferries for cyclists, the Danish islands got a deserved tourist season going in local businesses. In the Danish People's Party, we focus primarily on growth and development in rural areas and islands. That is what we see as important for us to have a Denmark that is linked. So when we are in favour of the initiatives that are being created in order for the Danes to see more of Denmark, it is alone because we want life and economic growth in rural areas and islands. Free Greens' focus is on another place, primarily on the climate, and peace be with it. When we want free ferry tickets to the islands, it is with growth and development in mind, while the Free Greens want it with climate in mind, but it does not matter as long as we agree. And we agree with the part of the proposal that is about examining whether free ferry tickets can be permanently made. That's where our agreement stops. The rest of the proposal that you should have a tax credit for climate-friendly overnight stays and be rewarded more and more, the greater a climate-glorie you can show, we get off on. The most climate-friendly thing is to stay at home, so should we not support those who travel, no matter how climate-friendly they do, when those who stay at home and may live on their herbal garden this year are not rewarded? In the Danish People's Party we cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518185828	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518185851	Thank you for the floor and thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer for presenting this motion for a resolution. After all, it is a question of strengthening incentives to choose a climate-friendly holiday in Denmark, and we can actually follow this in the SF, because the climate crisis simply requires that we fly significantly less • at least until we have made the flight considerably less climate-laden, and this is unfortunately a few years in the future. SF therefore proposed last year that a passenger tax should be imposed on all flights, and we actually proposed that the revenue from that passenger tax be spent on cheaper train and ferry tickets where aircraft are today cheapest, as well as on social compensation via a green cheque. Because whether it is taking the ferry to Livø, jumping on the train to see Hans Christian Andersen's house in Odense or perhaps renting a summer house on Als, the very purpose of the resolution is to make the Danes want to choose a more climate-friendly holiday. We are therefore in favour of the proposalers' wish to introduce an increase in taxation on polluting modes of transport, not least in the case of air transport, and to spend part of their resources on better and cheaper transport. We would like to discuss how this can be done in a way that will have the greatest impact on the climate and at the same time support rural areas and, as a starting point, we think that it is particularly important to make train and ferry tickets the cheapest where aircraft are today the cheapest. However, we in the SF do not believe that the fees should be used for administratively heavy deductions for holiday trips. I find it difficult to imagine how, without the great administrative hassle, we will be able to make these climate-compensating deductions without a lot of time and money, and we fear that the measures will hit socially at a disadvantage. The richest will spend more money on their vacation. It could be in the form of a more expensive holiday home or hotel, and we think that will bring greater tax relief to the more prosperous citizens. In SF, we think it would be wiser to spend the money directly on social compensation and climate action. We believe that a better solution would be to raise the green check. In this way, we will ensure that the green transition does not suffer the hardest from those who have the hardest. Whether citizens want to spend money on holiday homes, organic food or cinema tours, we do not think we should interfere, and we therefore vote against the proposal in the SF, but we look forward to discussing it in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190130	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a wish for a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190135	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. See, the rapporteur briefly mentioned an aircraft tax, an air tax. As far as I remember, the industry itself has been out suggesting that you would like to put some kind of savings of DKK 30. per air fare, and that money the industry will then use independently to support research into how we can fly more climate-friendly. What is the rapporteur's view of such a proposal, in which the industry itself assumes responsibility and leaves the state out of it? Isn't that preferable?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190212	I am, of course, never opposed to the fact that in the industry itself you are innovating and doing some things. You can choose in the industry to say that the tickets must be more expensive and then try to do something yourself. But in SF we also have a desire to steer things in a certain direction, and it should be in a climate-friendly and green direction, and there are sometimes just taxes a good tool. So that's the choice we've made in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190243	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190244	If the industry itself wants to invest in this to develop how we could fly more climate-friendly, and how we might be able to use that power-to-x to pour on our airplanes, we'll achieve the same, plus that we can move without having to pay a tax. I guess you can't object to that. Today, in fact, we have airlines that buy up forests for the way of being climate neutral. Instead of imposing a tax on them, should we not give them a premium?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190316	After all, I am always a fan of wanting to do something and especially when it comes to climate action. I'm thinking that the industry can just get started if they have a desire to do something. My experience is that a tax for everyone may also be something that makes you steer towards innovation and doing some things. Then there is also the fact that we have actually used that tax to finance other things in the SF's proposal, which is why I cannot simply go along completely with the rapporteur's proposal, even though it may be very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190351	The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190354	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. For a while I was actually thinking that SF would just immediately support the proposal. But I think that if we now take the deduction out of the equation and work on the ideas used in the summer packages, will that mean, in relation to what the rapporteur says, that we could then come up with something on which we could agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190420	I think that after this debate we should discuss it in committee, i.e. whether there are things on which we can agree. I certainly think there are a lot of good initiatives in the summer packages. I would also like to say that I would like it to be dealt with a little more wisely than it was last summer, but Mrs Susanne Zimmer will know from the committee where we have heard the wishes of the islands in relation to a summer package that it is important that they have more codecision and so on. And after all, it is they who must, what can be said, carry a very large number of guests, so it is very good to have them on board, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190502	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190504	Yes, I fully agree with that, too, that it would be good to take the time out, even in relation to what our labour market will be like, so that we can take vacation at many different times. Then I would also just like to contribute to what the rapporteur says about the green cheque, so that we would of course also like to support that, because it is very important that we reduce social inequality. And I think that is also one of the things we can talk about in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190533	Well, I believe that on many stretches the Alternative and SF have the same objectives: to reduce inequality, to address the climate crisis, to support rural areas. So I definitely think we have a lot of interfaces where we could benefit from talking more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190551	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190607	Thank you. With this resolution, the proposers want a study on how to ensure more and more climate-friendly holidays in Denmark. We in the Enhedslist are, of course, very positive about this and I would also like to thank the proposers for putting forward this proposal. In the Enhedslisten we are also very positive about looking at how we can make domestic journeys with public transport cheaper, including the ferries to our many islands, which are also planned to look at ferries, which hopefully all will soon be converted to power, so that we do not end up in any further CO2 but we are already doing a good job on that conversion. In addition, we also think that the proposed study should look at what it takes to ensure that more people take the train over the plane when they choose to go abroad anyway. The part of the proposal that will then look at the possibilities of deduction for holiday transport and accommodation, we in the Enhedslisten are not sure on is the right way to go. After all, a study of the possibilities is now being proposed. Perhaps we could look more closely at what could be done to promote more charging stations for electric cars in rural areas and summer cottage areas. However, with those comments, and because this is just a study which this motion for a resolution calls for, the Enhedslisten can well support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190735	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190739	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Now, I know that the rapporteur's party is very concerned to secure jobs and secure jobs throughout the Kingdom, and it is important that we have these jobs, but also that we have something to live on out there in rural areas. How would the rapporteur's party view a proposal that might have been made to increase VAT on restaurant visits in order to boost tourism in rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190808	I think it is more crucial to see that we have to get people out into rural areas. This is what this study is also suggesting, namely that we should get people out to experience, for example, some of the national parks we are about to designate right now, and I think that will certainly have a positive effect, also for the catering industry outside the big cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190830	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190831	Yes, but we should also have created some jobs out there and ensured that people come back, and so it should be such that it will not cost half a farm. So a deduction of VAT on catering expenses could be exactly what moved people to a greater extent, but it might also be good in the big cities. Copenhagen has suffered so much during this pandemic. If we were to lighten VAT a little and say that it will not be scratched in by the state, would it not help to maintain and perhaps develop some jobs in Copenhagen as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190910	No, I do not think that is the right way to go in relation to making such a kind of differentiation. If it is specifically about rural areas, I would actually much rather look at how we could support local food production, which could also be connected to the catering industry, combined with learning more about how we can actually ensure that more Danes take a climate-friendly holiday in Denmark and will also, of course, eat in the rural dining areas that hopefully have local food.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190942	The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518190944	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for their support; I am very pleased about that. In terms of cheapening public transport, we can only agree that this is really important. It also helps the climate, and it actually also gives some really good experiences that you drive trains rather than driving your own car, and then it gives all people the opportunity to join in, because it is by no means all people who have a car. In relation to the deduction system, the Free Greens are also willing to see whether we can do something smarter; it was one of the ideas in the proposal. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518191026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518191027	Thank you. I can't wait for us to take a closer look at this. It could also be that the rapporteur and I should sit down and see if there is any further evidence that might be relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518191042	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments to the rapporteur, and thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party. It's sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518191053	Thank you very much, President. Today we are discussing B-192. Denmark is a great country to take a holiday in, and it has very, very many beautiful places and beautiful islands that more and more of us have seen over last summer and which we will probably also see again in the coming summer. When the Danes have now found out how nice it is to take a holiday in Denmark, there is probably a part of them who also use the kingdom for holiday joys in the future. But to start giving a deduction or financial incentive to take a holiday in Denmark we simply cannot see ourselves in. It should of course be the case that it is a voluntary choice where you want to take a holiday, and at the same time it should be the free market forces that react when you take a holiday. With these words, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518191145	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518191151	Then I would like to make one brief comment. It is true that today there is an honourable man in the Chamber who is an honorary man from the Left, who comes from one of the islands, Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left. And Peter's birthday is today, so hearty congratulations from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518191206	Thank you for your brief comment to the Conservative rapporteur, and also congratulations from the Chair. Then the rapporteur has been in the Chair, at least the rapporteurs who are present in the Chamber, and I do not see the new Civil and Liberal Alliance present. On the other hand, I see the rapporteur for the proposers on the way to the platform. This is Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518191232	Thank you. This proposal is about financial incentives to take a climate-friendly holiday. Denmark is a nice place. We have plenty of opportunities for good experiences. We have lovely sandy beaches, we can bathe, we can sunk, we can walk in our forests, and we can go on cycling holidays. We can go canoeing on the creeks, on picnics with overnight stays in the shelters. There are bright nights and there are museums and cultural experiences, old cities and local gems and amusement parks around. There is plenty of opportunity to take a good holiday. The only thing that is uncertain is the weather, and it usually goes very well once you're out in it. In the summer of 2020, many more holidays took place at home in Denmark, more than usual. There are many more people who are going to be on holiday back home again this year than usual, and this is of course due to the corona. However, many people have also seen what Denmark can offer from nature and culture and the previously mentioned. Summer 2020 gave a lot of people good experiences in Denmark • people who would otherwise not take a holiday in Denmark and who sometimes know abroad better than their own country. At the same time, studies show that several Danes no longer want to fly as much as they used to... it's actually 9%. This gives us a great opportunity to support a development that offers more opportunities and a desire to take a holiday more locally and thus also lower their CO2 instead of the long flights abroad that make a huge climate impact, we need to stay in the lower air layers, and the Free Greens want to make it cheaper to stay in the lower air layers. It's all just better for our climate if we take the train to Skagen or Fanoe than if we fly to Italy or Australia. It is not the same experiences, but experiences that can be good. According to CONCITO, a flight from Denmark to Asia emits 5 tonnes of CO2 corresponding to more than a quarter of an average Danish's annual emissions and impacts on the climate. The medium and long flights from Danish airports are increasing sharply. Of course, this is a problem for the climate. Statistics Denmark show that there has been an increase of 30%. on medium and long flights from Danish airports from 2014 to 2018. And of course it's been different this past year because of corona. With this proposal, we would like to oblige the government, in cooperation with the Danish Parliament, the tourist industry, the transport sector and other relevant stakeholders, to ensure that it is cheaper to take a holiday in Denmark forward-looking. Among other things, you can... choose to continue some of the concrete actions from summer 2020, or work with deduction-based schemes. It is important that substantial financial incentives are given to travel and stay in Denmark in the most climate-friendly way and that the scheme does not hit socially wrong. The summer package 2020 gave a boost to e.g. public transport, culture and the promotion of tourism in the small islands. The interim evaluations show that 1.1 million passengers chose to accept the offer of the summer pact to sail free of charge with the country's ferries in July. Compared to 2018, the number of ferry passengers increased by 60%. and the number of cyclists at 120 per cent. It provides socio-economic gains for rural areas, and most of the small islands' businesses report that they came out stronger by 2020. There are really many positive elements on which to build. The government has played out a new set of corona relief packages, which will continue many of the initiatives from last summer, but we also need to go beyond that. Why not build on the many good experiences and effects that have been and then make a permanent arrangement so that people know what they have to look forward to and you can plan for it in the tourist industry among others.? It is important that a climate-friendly holiday scheme in Denmark, where Danes can get around the country and experience our country's versatility and beauty, is developed in close cooperation with local stakeholders. It is they who know their local areas best and they know best what opportunities there are so that both locals and tourists can benefit from the scheme. It is a great opportunity to support changed holiday habits in Denmark to the benefit of the country's cohesion, of our local industry and, not least, of the climate. I would also refer to the comments accompanying the proposal and recommend it to the kind treatment of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518191729	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor, so I note that the debate has ended. I therefore propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210518191748	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 19 May 2020, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00 I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
