ParlaMint-DK_20210113130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 136 (Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure and the Aliens Act. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 137 (Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Control Act, the VAT Act, the Collection Act and various other laws. In the context of the implementation of the agreement on enhanced tax control,1the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) etc.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 116 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the firing of fireworks by private individuals at different times from New Year's Eve and limiting the time allowed for the purchase and sale of fireworks). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 119 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up a committee to draw up a canon for the Danish song tax). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I have to inform you that there has been a questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, on question No. 1, spm. No. S 681, to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130102	The first question is to the Prime Minister by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and as I said, there is a fellow questioner, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130106	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130108	Thank you for that, President. Happy New Year. What will the Prime Minister in 2021 do differently than in the past year to live up to his New Year's speech's reference to Hal Koch: Democracy is much more than a form of government. It's a way of life. It is not the votes that are the real strength of democracy. It's the conversation. And the will to find common solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130130	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130131	Thank you for the question. In my New Year's speech I thanked the Danish Parliament for its cooperation in dealing with the Corona, and I would like to repeat that today, because we have been able to find many good common solutions in a very difficult time. Since March we have reached 65 political agreements on corona, and 62 of them have been broad agreements across the political centre. We have held more than a week and now hold 900 meetings with Parliament's parties about the corona, and in the vast majority of meetings it has exactly been the conversation that has been the focal point. In addition, we have concluded and now maintain 14 tripartite agreements with the social partners. All these agreements, all these meetings and this collaboration have produced results for the Danes and for Denmark, and that's why we're here. I therefore do not, of course, agree with the premise of the question that a lot needs to be done differently. On the contrary, I am proud of the Danish people's government and of our cooperation. I am also proud of how strong and vibrant a democracy we jointly carry in our hands. There have, of course, been discussions and also expected criticism along the way. It's perfectly natural. But we have also been able to make decisions on behalf of our people. We are right now in a very, very difficult place in the pandemic. The next few months will be given the hardest of allerelles. That is why we still need to work together, and I hope that we can stand together on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130303	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130304	Yes, that was not quite the answer I had hoped for, and it is not because I do not think it is good that a lot of meetings have been held. I think there are both in the Russian Duma and also in the Chinese assembly. I think you can count up a lot of meetings and say that there are many meetings. That's not really my business here. This is how to ensure that Hal Koch's words about conversation also make sense in relation to moving each other. I had hoped that the Prime Minister would say that there were things last year that she could see had been done in a way that did not reflect Hal Koch's idea of that kind of democracy, and that therefore there were some things we had to do differently in 2021, but that reflection was not at all relevant here, quite the contrary. Let us take a concrete example. Today is Wednesday, January 13th. The current restrictions will run out on Sunday at the end of Sunday 17 January, i.e. in about four days' time the restrictions will run out. Has there been any discussion with the parties as to whether these restrictions are being extended and has there been any public announcement? Has it been for the thousands of people who are really preparing to start again on Monday that the liberal professions are going to open; the shops to open; the hairdresser, who is going to make sure that the staff meet in; the schools to bring the children back in on Monday morning? We are here on Wednesday, January 13th. Is any of us currently involved in a discussion about what happens when Sunday becomes Monday, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130427	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130428	Yes, it is there, and I hope that the words that were said here also mean that the Danish People's Party supports further restrictions if it becomes necessary to extend the restrictions, which I clearly consider necessary, not least to ensure that the British mutation does not spread in a way that undermines the Danish epidemic control. I hope the words are an expression of that. And yes, there will be meetings today with all the parties of the Folketing, including all party leaders in the Folketing, about the restrictions that are unfortunately necessary to get through the pandemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130511	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130512	Well, then we'll get something out of it anyway, because then I'll be told here four days before the restrictions expire at 8:00. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I believe that the thousands of Danes who are currently in a state of uncertainty, because they believe that the restrictions will be extended; we all believe that. But it hasn't been reported out because we're waiting for the Prime Minister to go on TV and tell us if they're being extended. Now I understand that we will have a meeting with the party leaders later today, where we will then know what the Prime Minister is planning. I appreciate that; I am happy to take part in it. I think it is also necessary to extend the restrictions. We must then go to that meeting, but it is fantastic that we should have a Question Time here on Wednesday in order to clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130552	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130552-2	But I guess there's no reason for the controversy. I guess there's really no reason for the awkward mood either. We stand in the midst of a thundering pandemic and handle it as well as we can at all noticed in brackets better than many other countries with which we traditionally compare ourselves. And any announcement of restrictions, whether it has been an extension or the implementation of new ones, has been made on the basis of a very, very close dialogue with the parties of the Folketing. It won't be any different this time. I understand the desire for very long-term planning, but as it is a virus and as it is biology, it will have to be based on the recommendations of the health authorities. After all, we have just received them in the government and dealt with them, and then we have a dialogue with all the parties of the Folketing afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130640	Then it's the enquirer, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130643	Let me continue where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl escaped, and so to say: If you read Hal Koch, it is precisely with a premise that the truth is something that arises in the conversation, that is that there is not such an almost God-given or in any other way externally really fait accompli, but that it is something that arises when you test each other's arguments, when you debate with each other etc. It is not just us in the Danish People's Party, but, I believe, all of us in the bourgeois opposition who, for a year now, have experienced a huge self-willed government which has not listened, but which may have taken parties into some kind of orientation. I remember myself having a debate with the Minister for Health, where we asked directly about whether it was at 9 a.m. The 22.00 rule, for example. Perhaps it could have been done in a more flexible way. Could it have been done in such a way that it could have been a period from 1 p.m. 22.00-23.00, you had to get out, etc., so you didn't risk people crowding together on metro and buses and things like that? And the answer was that it was the right solution, that is, that it was the true solution. And it's not really Hal Kochsk. Or is it only the Prime Minister who reads Hal Koch, and not the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130751	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130752	I do not think that anyone has a true solution to a global pandemic. We are still standing on untouched land, and that is why we have never claimed from the government at any time that we have known what has been the right thing to do. But I can confirm that there have been some disagreements between the Danish People's Party and the government along the way; usually with the substantial content that the Danish People's Party has wanted to relax some restrictions where the government has been more reluctant. And that's what I'm aiming for. Because we know that if we do not keep the pandemic under control, it has very, very major consequences for disease, potentially also for the loss of human life, but also for the economy. So it is true that we have sometimes rejected proposals to relax restrictions, and I am in favour of this, and I continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130838	Mort Messerschmid.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130839	Well, it is not just the proposals that have been rejected, I would say to the Prime Minister that it is also just the dialogue. Well, it's the whole Hulne Kochske that's been rejected. When a health minister says that it is the most gifted thing that all people leave a restaurant at the same time, moving down the metro at the same time, into the buses at the same time, instead of listening to what we are saying, namely that it would make sense that it could happen over half an hour, so there was a more soft flow so that in this way people were not sitting shoulder to shoulder in the metro home, it is not particularly Hal Kochsk when they say no to it. That is why it is relevant to ask as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Does the government intend to listen more to Hal Koch in the year we enter than has been done in the past year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130921	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130922	It is obvious that today we are discussing whether the restaurants should close at 1 p.m. 10:00 a.m. or 10:00 a.m. 10:30 or 10:00. 23:00 in that they're closed. And there is nothing to indicate that restaurants are allowed to open up again in Denmark. We are in the midst of a thundering global pandemic. We have had a relatively good pandemic control in Denmark, which we risk being undermined by the British mutation. I must be honest: I think it is striking that this is the discussion that the Danish People's Party wants to have today, i.e. whether the restaurants can close half an hour later they are closed. The restaurants are closed because of the global pandemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130958	Thank you. The last question to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113130959	That's a derailment. Because this is about the Prime Minister in his New Year speech advertising Hal Koch, in other words advocating that Hal Koch's kind of democracy is what she takes on and thinks is right. Then we can point out a lot of examples in the way in which the Corona crisis, which is not Hal Kochsk, has been dealt with, is precisely the opposite. We are called to meetings and are told what the government has decided, and that is not a real discussion. When we, as party leaders, were told one afternoon that the government had decided that all mink should be defeated, that was not a discussion. As we ask whether there is any possibility of making a second opinion, we are told that there is no time for that. It's not Hal Kochsk, it's the opposite of Hal Koch. That's just why we're trying to figure out what makes Hal Koch stand out in New Year's speech. What is it that the Prime Minister has arrived at that is so amazing about what he just said after World War II about democracy, which means that now the Prime Minister has had a revelation and what will it bring about change? And what we have been told today is: no one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131057	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131058	In other words, I have already explained, and I have done so on several occasions, how many political agreements have been concluded, and how many meetings have been held. I am not normally quoting from confidential conversations between party leaders, but I hope, if anyone asks Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will confirm that we have also had quite a lot of conversations along the way of confidential nature about many and very small things, big things, in the short term, in the long term. I spend a lot of time with the country's party leaders. So the conversation has to be there, and it has been, and it must have continued.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131140	The question is over. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. We shall continue with questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, by Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131147	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131150	Thank you, President. Does the Foreign Minister agree that the agreement between the EU and the UK ensures good cooperation with free and fair competition, which is as close as possible in the light of the strong British wishes for brexit, and thus also provides a good perspective for Denmark to get a corresponding dexit agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131209	Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131211	Thank you to the questioner. Let me make one thing clear straight away: Denmark already has the best possible agreement, namely EU membership with all the benefits and opportunities it offers us. Everyone loses on brexit, regardless of the agreement, cooperation with our British friends will in future be less close and much more difficult. I do not see any positive thing in that, and my answer to the questioner is: I cannot see any argument politically or economically that we, in other words Denmark, should leave the European Union. Although the agreement with the British guarantees customs and quota freedom in relation to trade in goods, it does not change the fact that it will be more expensive and bureaucratic to act together: border checks will be made; companies will have to have export permits and certificates; rules of origin will limit duty-free; services will also be subject to reduced conditions. The only positive thing about brexit is that it exposes the many advantages of the internal market that we in Denmark are part of, and which we have perhaps taken for granted for many years, benefits that have been invisible and to which we have become accustomed: that we have been able to trade across the border without bureaucracy, certificates and control, because in the internal market we have one set of rules, one set of standards for 27 different countries instead of 27 different countries' standards. We have been able to travel, work and study freely in the 27 countries, and we have been able to provide services and take work across borders without bureaucracy because we have freedom of movement. Well, then, sir. Morten Messerschmide and other EU opponents have always been quick to complain about EU bureaucracy, but the reality is that the internal market represents the absence of bureaucracy and that what British companies are experiencing now is how much unnecessary hassle it gives when you do not have common rules and common standards. It will not be in Denmark's interest to reduce our companies' access to the internal market. We will not gamble with up to 600,000 Danish jobs linked to exports to the EU's internal market. That is why I agree with the vast majority of the Danish population who want to continue Danish EU membership.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131429	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131430	I think there is reason to arrest the premise that the European Union should not be bureaucratic. In other words, now the Foreign Minister and I share a destiny, in the sense that both of us have been a considerable part of our lives in the European Parliament, and that, on that basis, it is said that the European Union should not be bureaucratic, I would say, an enchantment. Then there is the agreement with Britain itself. Is it that bad again? I would remind you, then, that the Foreign Minister, together with an almost unified press force and everyone who calls themselves experts in the European Union, has said that there would be virtually no agreement and that no matter what would be a bad agreement. That is why I am asking you today: is this really a bad deal? We know that there will now be free trade without quantitative and qualitative restrictions. That is to say, Business as usual with the permission of the President in relation to the trade in goods. Then, on the other hand, we can see that the British have taken the prize home in a number of areas. They are now given the opportunity to decide for themselves in relation to services. In other words, when there are Eastern workers, they are no longer subject to the Temporary Employment Directive and the Posting of Workers Directive, but can actually say no. They no longer have to pay grants to Eastern European students. They should no longer send child support to Polish children who have never been in Britain. There are a lot of things, both things that not only I and the Danish People's Party stand and have hot dreams of being Danish too, but also things that the Foreign Minister at least on such festive days, when he is out talking to the voters, also thinks himself. So that's a weird way to read this deal. So, the British will not be included in the crazy proposal by the European Commission to ban hunting in Natura 2000 areas; the British will not be included in the crazy proposal to regulate the minimum wages of the countries; the British will not be included in one crazy ruling by the European Court of Justice after another, which undermines our immigration policy. So there are tons of cases here, Minister for Foreign Affairs, which not only we in the Danish People's Party can rejoice over, but which the Danish Government should then make its case; things that the government says it is also fighting for. I just mentioned some of them. However, in those areas where the Danish People's Party and the government agree, can the Minister of Foreign Affairs not at least say that it agrees to see just some options in the agreement that the British have made here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131634-2	The agreement we have in being a member of the European Union and the internal market is a far better agreement than the one that the British have made with the European Union today. I mentioned this earlier: instead of 27 different sets of rules, we have a common set of rules. And I'm gonna arrest Mr. Knox, too. Morten Messerschmidt's premise that this deal, which is made, does not give bureaucracy. This brings an insane amount of bureaucracy and costs, including for companies. I can give you some examples, which I hope you will be able to give us. Morten Messerschmidt will relate to: e.g. Arla expects to handle approx. 15,000 additional documents each year, and the Danish company DFDS expects that approx. 100 employees now have to deal with brexit and the new customs clearance, which can mean approx. 1-3 per cent. extra costs, and the list could be continued in relation to bureaucracy. Is that what the Danish People's Party wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131724	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131726	No, but one can think of a company like Arla, which is used to exporting both to the United States and to the Middle East, to Russia, China and India, and I could mention a number of others. Is it not possible to deal with exporting to Britain? That's not what keeps me awake at night. What should, on the other hand, keep the Foreign Minister awake in the evening is, of course, whether he is right in his prediction that it is better to be a member of the European Union. The fact is that the Foreign Minister is not only talking to me, he is not just talking to those who are sitting in the Chamber, but he is speaking first and foremost to the history books, and in a few years' time, we will know whether the British have gone as badly as the Foreign Minister thinks, and we are almost tempted to say hope. What will the Secretary of State do if it goes well for the British?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131806	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131806-2	I am simply surprised that the Danish People's Party is willing to gamble with up to 600,000 Danish jobs, which depend on our exports to the internal market and the fact that we have a common set of rules. Following the example of the British, this would put Danish companies at a disadvantage compared with competitors in the internal market. This is what we see in concrete terms now, in other words that British companies are worse off than those in the EU's internal market, and thus we will be gambled with Danish jobs, Danish business, Danish prosperity and Danish welfare. Social democracy will never support this, and I do not understand why the Danish People's Party is defending something that is more bureaucratic and that damages Danish jobs and Danish business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131847	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131847-2	Well, are we sure about that, Secretary of State? I mean, I haven't seen such British companies flocking to move the headquarters over to the other side of the canal. I remember that the Foreign Minister and other EU disciples were out to say this at some point, but that did not happen. After all, few British companies have done so, and especially after this agreement, which has, after all, been saluted as a success for the British. I would just like to ask something that I did not get an answer to: what will the Foreign Minister do and say to the Danish electorate when it turns out that the British economy is actually doing well, that the British are not losing jobs? How, then, is he going to defend to the Danes that we are still chained away to the project down in Brussels that the Foreign Minister is so in love with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131928	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113131929	After all, the question was whether Denmark should follow the UK's example and resign from the EU and the internal market and with all the bureaucracy that then comes with such resignation and a new agreement, and the government's answer is clear: No, we hold fast and we will not gamble with 600,000 Danish jobs. We want to ensure an internal market in which we can trade with one another in an unbureaucratic way. We also want to fight for it where we want rules to be changed in the European Union, but by being a member. The second alternative is neither an alternative, we can offer the Danes, the Danish jobs nor the Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132005	The question is over. But we shall continue with questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, indeed, to Mr Van den Broek. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132011	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132012	Thank you. Does the Foreign Minister agree that it would be nice if Denmark had the same freedom as the British to trade goods freely with the EU in future, but no longer be subject to EU rules for seconded staff and EU requirements to pay student and child support to citizens of other EU countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132030	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, and the question is based on a misconception that you can get all the benefits of EU membership without taking on responsibility and obligations, and of course you cannot. It doesn't hold in the real world... you can't both blow and have flour in your mouth at the same time. It reminds us of the allegations we know too well from the British Brexit debate, and it is perhaps not so random that has brought Britain to where it is unfortunately now. As I said, after Brexit, there will be no free and frictionless trade in either goods or services, as we know from the European Union's internal market. The agreement between the EU and Britain limits the damage from brexit and is clearly better than no agreement, but it does not remove the consequences and more bureaucracy. We do not yet know the full consequences of brexit, but we are already hearing how different companies can be affected. This is true, for example. In the financial sector, UK supermarkets and exporters of fishery products, and according to the UK Government's own assessment • and now hold fast • the additional paperwork we are now seeing can cost UK companies up to 60 billion. kr. a year. Brexit therefore creates bureaucracy and inconvenience for companies and not the opposite. I therefore do not agree with the questioner that it would be good for Denmark to have the trade access to the European Union granted to Great Britain. On the contrary, it will be deeply damaging to Danish jobs and the Danish economy. The questioner then mentions some areas where he would like to see Denmark exempted. I will not go into the individual areas mentioned by the questioner, but just say that there are, of course, EU rules that the government would like to see changed. That is clear, and we are fighting for it too, but I am convinced that this is best done in terms of cooperation and not outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132221	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132223	That is the last thing that is so sad, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that is the question: how long can we continue to deceive the Danes? For all the time I have known the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in whatever capacity it may be as a member of parliament, minister, European Parliamentarian, etc. But what happened? The fact is that the things we mention here, as I have at least heard in various election campaigns, have always been something that the Foreign Minister has wanted, such as: an indexing of social benefits, etc. But nothing has happened. Because in Brussels nobody listens to the Danish Foreign Minister. You may sometimes call Berlin and may also call Paris, but the idea that you call Copenhagen to hear what the Foreign Minister might think about Eastern workers' access to Su? So it has not even been possible to stay within the ceiling for which I believe a unanimous Parliament has decided, and that is why it is so exciting if the Foreign Minister is right. Now it's just three things I mention on this issue which is about things where Britain has freed itself. We could have talked about the vaccine authorization, too. So, almost a month before we in the European Union were allowed to vaccinate, the British were in full swing. That is what makes Britain the third country in the world today in relation to the number of citizens vaccinated with the Pfizer vaccine, the one that we have then started with something later. There are plenty of areas where we must sit with envy and see that the British now have a newly-won freedom, and the only thing the Foreign Minister can bring is that it will cost them money. Well, that's just what we're gonna have to see. I do not think the Secretary of State is right. I know that the British have been using the last 14 days to conclude more than 60 agreements with countries around the world to now be able to create new free trade, in other words large and small countries, where you will be able to export and act in a completely new way because you are not bound by Brussels. I would therefore like to ask, as before, what will the Foreign Minister say to the Danes when it turns out that the British are not doing as badly economically as the Foreign Minister is aiming for them to do and base all their arguments on the European Union for them to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132428	No, that's a little sad, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, is not that the government defends that Denmark should be part of the internal market and an EU cooperation that helps to hold hands under 600,000 jobs at home, create good conditions for our companies, create a competitive power that has brought prosperity and prosperity to us in Denmark. I think that is absolutely essential for us to hold on to that. So, what is sad is that the Danish People's Party tells someone that it is better to stand outside and make a bureaucratic agreement with the EU, where you then put our Danish companies at a disadvantage and thus compete on unequal terms compared to jobs. We do not want to do that. We do not gamble with 600,000 jobs. I do not understand that the Danish People's Party will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132507	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132508	This is not the philosophical approach to what I am really going to put to the Minister a position on that is quite specific. So we can stand by and say that there are 600,000 Danish jobs that export directly to the internal market, and therefore, if the internal market were not there, the 600,000 people would be unemployed. It's a fine line of reasoning. It's probably not a line of reasoning that holds true, but it's fine. That is certainly an argument in the Aristotelian context, which I accept is an argument. But what does the Foreign Minister do when the argument falls because the agreement reached by the British does not turn out to create the effect that the Foreign Minister hopes to have, namely that things are going badly for Britain? So what does the Secretary of State do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132547	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132548	If the Danish People's Party really wants to follow the British way out of the EU and weaken the competitive power of companies, which would be the consequence, just as it has been for British companies • we see companies in Britain moving to the internal market to ensure that their competitive power is preserved • the Danish People's Party should come up with some answers. What the Danish People's Party should answer to all the Danes is: Why do you want to gamble with the people's jobs? Why do you want to put Danish companies worse than other companies in Europe? Why do you want to go that way? The Danish People's Party owes that answer to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132625	Then the final question to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132626	I would very much like to answer that and we can take it at a Skype meeting where there are probably more listeners, but now I am asking the Foreign Minister that it is not the other way around here. What I am asking is: if the agreement made by the British does not turn out to be a disaster for British industry and the number of jobs that the Foreign Minister says Denmark would lose if we were so placed, what is the response of the government and the Foreign Minister to the Danes who are tired of being shredded around by Brussels? Then you can no longer threaten. Then we can no longer say that there are 600,000 people who will lose their jobs, can we? Then you have to come up with a positive story, and can the Foreign Minister come up with a positive story that can sell the EU project to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132706	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132707	As I said at the outset, there are also rules in EU cooperation that we want to change from the Danish Government, and that is what we are fighting for. In other words, EU cooperation is a cooperation with both advantages and obligations that apply to all 27 countries. That's the way it is. However, the benefits it brings to be part of the world's largest single market, the prosperity boost it has helped to give Denmark, the guarantee of fair and equal conditions of competition for companies, we are not throwing overboard. The Danish People's Party does not want to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132737	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and thank you to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. We will continue with a question to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132750	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132755	Thank you. What is the Minister's position that last year was a record year for gang killing, and will the Minister indicate below what the government is planning to do to stop the massive gang crime we are seeing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113132810	Thank you for the question. The increasing number of homicides testify to me to an increased degree of cynicism and disgust in the gang environment. It creates insecurity and does not belong in Denmark. I take this development very seriously. I know that a large number of Parliamentary parties also take it very seriously. A great deal has been done by the government in recent years to combat the gangs. It could sound as if it were this government alone, but it certainly also applies to the previous governments. But the gangs are still there, and the government has therefore for the last year and a half engaged in a number of areas. We have presented a security and security package with 16 initiatives, among others. strengthens police investigative capabilities significantly through increased television surveillance, both a strong extension of the scope and means of inter alia: 300 new security cameras. The government has launched a massive tightening-up of the rules in relation to driving madness, which in some cases is also very useful to the gang environment. We have launched initiatives that strongly address insecurity-building behaviour. In concrete terms, for example, the police must: have the possibility to issue a ban on residence in certain places if a group of persons, e.g.: Gang members create insecurity in the area. And then we have almost all concluded a new and ambitious multi-year agreement for the police and the prosecution, which may in fact be the most important single tool, because there we strengthen the Danish police quite considerably financially, but of course also by providing 450 new police officers, just as we free 150 officers by moving tasks from the police. We are setting up 20 new local police stations to strengthen the presence of the police, among others. the vulnerable residential areas, which may be characterised by the gangs, as well as a number of other initiatives, which will also be relevant to our ability to deal with gang crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133012	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133013	Thank you and thank the Minister for her reply. I think it is a good thing that something is happening; that there are various proposals; that there are various legislative proposals coming from the government as well. This has been the case under previous governments, and that is also the case under this government. What we're looking for is something that works. Because you can make quite a lot of suggestions and probably so many announcements, but if the gangs are still shooting and making the streets insecure for the residents who are in the area, it hasn't helped much. You could say it's like a balance of power. Unfortunately, that balance of power is constantly in favour of the gangs, as it now stands, because we have the opportunity to fire our weapons. You get an opportunity to blackmail. You get the opportunity to threaten other people. And among other things... Some of the ghetto areas are being held in an iron grip by those who just sell hashish and drugs and make a lot of money from it. And these are the gang members. So my question to the Minister for Justice is actually this: what does the Minister for Justice think it takes to stop the gangster thing we see? The gangs are in constant conflict. We see it at street level, we see it in shootings, we see it in the conflicts in the obvious, but it is clear that they are always in conflict. That is why it is a lasting solution that needs to be found, that is to say, something that works now and here. That's what I'm looking for at the Attorney General's office. Then I would like to address the part about the non-Danish gang members, because it is clear that if you are a Danish citizen and enrolled in this, then there are some limitations on what we can do. But we can say that if you come from outside and are not a Danish citizen and are still active in the gang environment, then it is Danish People's Party's view that it is home then it is away from Denmark. Surely we do not want criminal elements in Denmark. There I demand that the government ensure that those members of the gangs who are not Danish citizens are expelled. Will the government do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133213	I do not think it is difficult to establish a common recognition that this is not easy. If it had been, it would have been done a long time ago. After all, there has been a continuous broad majority in the Parliament, well from the SF/Social Democratic Party and even looked like the author's own party who has been concerned about handling this very difficult gang situation as there is. This is a development that we must constantly follow, and new initiatives must be taken at all times. The fact that we have taken initiatives has led to something, but more needs to be done, as we have also agreed in our agreement on the police and prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133251	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133252	Yeah, it takes more than that. Now, for example, we saw. Yesterday, there was a ruling by the Court of Human Rights, and it is quite fine, as it were, that we are apparently allowed to expel key gang members who come from Loyal To Familia, the LTF. But I think it remains after the Danish expulsion of the person concerned, that we have actually only shown the person concerned up to and including 2024. What will the Minister of Justice do to ensure that we show gang members permanently? 'Cause he's not going back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133330	First of all, I think we can be very pleased that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights came out as it did. I am one of them, and this is what the questioner and the questioner are asking who has been critical of the dynamic interpretation style of the European Court of Human Rights. I think this is an example of what it shows to push the other way, and I am glad that we have been able to make the decision that we have been able to make. Yeah, time's up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133400	Then there's a co-questioner on here, and that's Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt. Speaking time is 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133407	But is this even a matter in which the Court of Human Rights should interfere? So, should it not really be the case that we in the Folketing are able to decide that if you are convicted of gang crime, you have settled completely outside the Danish community? After all, section 38 of the penal code has already been amended so that the ordinary one and the other, I would like to say that a rather dubious provision that only two thirds of your sentence is spent does not apply if the penalty is for something that has been committed in connection with gang crimes. Would that not actually be fair enough, as Mr. Peter Skaarup said that, in relation to other areas of criminal law, other areas of Danish law, we choose to say that these people have set themselves so emphatically outside the Danish community, well to feel one of the most democratic, transparent and well-functioning societies in the world, that we do not need the Human Rights Court to allow us to expel them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133505	It really starts somewhere else, and it's definitely not to talk around. It really starts with our own attention. And it has to be said that this has happened over recent years, and there is also the honour of the former Minister of Justice for this, that the prosecution has become much, much more aware of ensuring, when there is an opportunity to stand with someone we can show, that we will then also be called upon to do so, and that the case is brought to light, in relation to what the attachment is to the other country, etc., so that we have actually been able to go further in relation to having people expelled than was the case in the past. And I think there is reason to rejoice, even if the honour is due, at least to a certain extent, the former government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133548	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133549	There are certainly reasons for commending the previous government and especially its support party, but that does not change the fact that we also have to look at where we want to go forward. Are I to understand the Minister for Justice's words here that he is open to further tightening the rules and that we may ensure that the expulsion rules are formulated in such a way that it is only in cases where it is beyond doubt that it can violate an international convention that there should be no claim for expulsion? Otherwise, it has been quite a central discussion in relation to the law on foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133625	Well, we haven't put away any tools. Exactly the part that is perhaps not the most my resort, but what we have agreed between the parties is that, in relation to the gangs, we will do the following, and I am just quoting from our agreement: "The negotiators agree that during the period of the agreement, it is necessary to consider whether the actions carried out in the gang packages are sufficient to meet the challenges facing society today in the fight against gang crime. ▪ So we have given ourselves the joint task over the coming years to ensure that the tools are as effective as they should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133658	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133659	It is a good thing that we have committed each other to this. The question is, of course, just when something happens. We are impatient people in the Danish People's Party, so I would like to ask the Minister when we can expect the Minister to convene a meeting and speed up that process, because we cannot continue to tolerate the gangs shooting on open street. The citizens, in particular, are being marred by these shootings and are being scared of them. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether he is going to present a real gang package, in other words where we see a follow-up to gang packages I, II and III. That's what we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133743	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133744	Well, that's exactly the advantage of being in a settlement that other bourgeois parties have chosen to remain outside, namely that now we have to implement all these elements of the agreement, and that means that we have to go further in common than this, but also all the other things that lie there, and that is why we are going to go much further into this dialogue. I imagine, without prejudging the conclusion, that we need to find tools to go harder to the gangs than we have so far, because I share the premise that the work that has been done has been good, but that more is needed if we are to manage the gang situation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133819	The question is over. We will continue, I had almost said, with the same crew with questions to the Minister for Justice of Mr. Peter Skaarup and enquirer Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133824	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133825	The next question is about something else. I read out: What does the Minister think about Denmark not yet being able to send Romanian criminals out of the country, and will the Minister indicate below whether the consideration of international conventions is above the consideration of the lack of space in Danish prisons?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113133848	Thank you for the floor. I am concerned that, as is also the case in the question, our prisons are not being filled by exiled foreigners. It is actually quite unreasonable for Danish taxpayers to have to pay for their stay in our prisons, because they have turned their backs on our society in every possible way and must therefore be sent out of the country as soon as possible. It is therefore the government's clear ambition that as many expelled foreigners as possible be transferred to serve in the country of origin. This also applies to Romanian citizens. The last 21⁄2 years have succeeded in sending 18 Romanians to serve in their home country. Having said that, the situation is not satisfactory. Although we have managed to transfer a number of Romanian expulsions, they are still too few. There should be no doubt that I would very much have liked to have seen more of us transferred to Romania. It is a major priority for the government to send a request for transfer to the home country in all potential transfer cases, that cases are followed up with the countries concerned, but unfortunately there are many cases in which a transfer case is not settled in sufficient time for the transfer to be carried out before parole. This is partly due to the fact that in many countries, including Romania, cases have to be dealt with in the courts and that in several cases there is only a relatively short time to process the transfer entrance before the person concerned is on parole. The Ministry of Justice is continuously working to optimise the process, that is to say our internal process, so that the transfers can be implemented more effectively. In addition, the government expects to be ready in the spring with a bill to strengthen the motivation for foreign criminals to contribute to the transfer to serving in the home country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134044	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134044-2	Well, this is in and out of an area where you rip yourself in the hair that nothing happens anymore. In fact, the Social Democrats also did so in the party from which the Minister comes when they were in opposition here a few years ago, calling for relief and recovery and for something to be done and so on. to the previous government, as did the Danish People's Party. Then we thought it was lucky. I do not think we wanted the Socialists to go into government; we were not that far out, but we thought about it and talked about something happening now in this area; now Romanian criminals are going home to serve; now they are no longer filling up in Danish prisons, and now we can have room for other prisoners in prisons instead of having overcrowding. I think that both the Danes, the citizens of Denmark, the prison officials and many others think that it would be very good, so that there can be more space and more follow-up to the inmates in our prisons, instead of being huddled to bulter, nearest to the hallways, there are more in one cell, etc. etc. That is why we must have a common interest. Now that the Socialists are fortunate enough to have the power of government, there is also a responsibility. Then you have to use it for something too, and that is why I think it is somewhat uncertain and unclear what the government really intends to do, because if the goal is, of Romanian and other countries' criminals who fill up in Danish prisons, then clearly there is something more to be done. And what is that? I get the impression that you didn't care about the promise you made in the election campaign and before the last election. I get the impression that nothing is happening because the figures show what they did under the previous government. A great many foreign criminals have yet to be repatriated, and that is why one gets the impression that the government has some kind of blindness to this matter, in other words to the conventions. I would like to ask the Minister if the Minister does not put them over the Danish prisons and Danish inmates when you continue to fill the prisons with foreign inmates without doing what you have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134301	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134302	It is probably difficult to find anyone at all, I think, in the Folketing, who does not think it would be sensible that every time we have an exiled foreigner, perhaps also when they are not sentenced to expulsion, they could be sent to serve in their home countries, because the objective is surely broad agreement. Does anyone think it's going too fast? I don't think there is either. We do what we can to optimize the processes to make sure this happens. There are just some circumstances that make it a little more complicated than just snapping your fingers. I shall return to that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134340	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134341	I think I will give the Minister an opportunity to come back to that in a moment, when there is a little more speaking time, because it is urgent. It cannot go on saying to the Danes that we are now making sure that the Romanians come home. There have been visits down there, all sorts of things have been set in motion for this to happen. After all, we have tried to use the framework agreement that is in the European Union in this area, and what is happening? Actually, it's almost nothing. Could the Minister not therefore do a little better on this point, take the plane to Bucharest and talk to his colleague down there and say that something has to be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134411	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134413	In fact, we are in a situation of fact, and it is not only my merit that, on top of the Supreme Court ruling, a practice has been developed in which, in every case, in relation to Romania, we have to ask: are the conditions in the prisons in order? In fact, a process has been set up that goes fairly quickly, so that the obstacle that was seen with the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter to make these immediate transfers has actually been removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134446	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134448	This isn't a new affair. It's not something that's dumped on this Justice Department's desk either. This is something that goes back as far as eastward enlargement, I would say, with which the problem has grown particularly. This is something that should actually be easy to resolve on the table, because, as Mr. Peter Skaarup mentions, we have a framework agreement we have seen a deal like that but the problem is that we have a number of countries that do not comply with it. Now the Prime Minister has left, but she was here a moment ago, and so I would like to ask: why not convene an Intergovernmental Conference with this theme on the agenda? In other words, there are regular intergovernmental conferences in the European Union where the Ministers of State and Foreign Affairs meet. You can discuss anything. Why has the Danish Government never made this a theme? In other words, if we really have to believe in the good intentions of the Minister for Justice, and I have no reason not to do so, why not run it up to the level where it really belongs, and then say that the Prime Minister should make this a theme at the next summit in Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134554-2	This is really an interesting question, also because it promises, or at least gives rise to, raising the reflections a little beyond just a bickering on a Wednesday issue. What would actually happen if we said that the framework decision, which is highly criticised, needs to be revised? Yes, it would actually happen that there would be a new regulation. It may be that I am not quite right here, but now I am trying, as well as I can, with the skills I am equipped with: in fact, it would happen that we would have to make a new regulation linked to the new Treaty because the framework decision is old. It is before the Treaty of Lisbon, as I remember it. In other words, a directive or a regulation would have to be drawn up, whatever it might be that we would be left out of. In other words, we would be in a regulatory vacuum, as I can see from the outset, in terms of moving forward with these repatriations. A great deal can be said about the framework decision, but the real question is whether we are better off with it or not, and whether we would not fall into a regulatory vacuum which would give us further difficulties. I'm not sure about this, it was just a reflection on an otherwise relevant question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134709	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134709-2	There is no doubt that rules which are subject to the reservation of law do not apply to Denmark. That is why it is not my proposal to create a new set of rules. In other words, a summit cannot adopt new legislation. On the other hand, a summit can discuss all political issues: foreign policy, economic debate, climate, etc. I'm sure the Minister of Justice can see the agendas. We will have them over in the Committee on European Affairs. There will be nothing to prevent a Danish Prime Minister from saying: for us in Denmark, it is such a priority that everyone, especially Eastern Europeans, will put it a little more diplomatically, but that means other citizens of the Union should not serve in Danish prisons when we actually agreed in principle that they should go home. And we want that to happen. Let's get it up to a summit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134754	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134755	Well, let's just say it happened. Then, with our legal reservations, we would in fact be in a situation where the rules that would then have to be adopted would be beyond our control. It may well be that I do not remember correctly here. After all, it is five years ago, but we were both involved in the debate on the vote on the reservation of rights, but I do believe that some of what we are part of what we shut ourselves out of there was getting an opt-in in on precisely this area. In other words, the questioner's own party recommended that we should not take the opportunity to open that door to a new regulation so that we could do better. It may be that my reasoning doesn't quite hold up, but I actually believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134835	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134837	I think this is a really exciting discussion. But we can then say that what we are after here is not really so much to participate in discussions. It is more that something is happening, that there will be action for us to have the citizens of Romania and other countries repatriated in Danish prisons. And that is why I would like to finally give the Minister the opportunity to say: what exactly will the government do about this phenomenon? Will it be raised in the European Union? Will it be passed on to Romania? Will you demand something in return if you do not take part in this work by Romania? What are you gonna do? You have to put that pressure on them so that they understand that we are serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134922	Thank you. The minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113134923	Well, I actually think that the exchange of words before was very illustrative, because I agree that action must be taken. But when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who, in my opinion, is at least one of the most qualified to discuss these issues, points to an action trail that may not in fact be functional, so it illustrates how difficult this is and that we do not snap at it. This should not prevent me from saying that we have a common task in ensuring that foreigners convicted in Denmark are serving their sentences in their country of origin as far as possible. And we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135000	Thank you. The question is over. We thank the Minister for Justice. Then we move on, and now the question is to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior by Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135034	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135035	Thank you very much. It could be that we had to remove the whole table; it would be much easier than wiping it off all the time. First of all, Happy New Year to all of you and Happy New Year to the Minister. I would like to ask: does the Minister agree that, in the light of the killing of a 29-year-old social educator who was killed in his place of residence, there is a need to prepare an emergency package in the social psychiatry so that we can ensure that it can again be safe to go to work in social psychiatry?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135104	Thank you both for the New Year's greeting and for the question that I would very much like to answer. After all, this is a very, very tragic matter. It deeply affects me, as I am sure it also does for the questioner, that once again we have experienced an employee on a social psychiatric housing offer losing his life during his work, and it pains me that there are parents who have to lose their son on such a tragic background. That's the sixth homicide since 2012, and that's six murders for many. No one should lose their lives by going to work, and there should be no doubt whatsoever that this is an area on which I have a great deal of focus. First of all, I have asked the Social Protection Agency for a statement on this particular matter. I also note that the Labour Inspectorate has given the Bo Offer two immediate instructions to ensure that no employee works alone where it is not safe and that the Bo Offer's knives are stored safely. Despite the fact that a number of new measures have been taken in recent years to prevent acts of violence on housing offers, such as: The 150 special places, unfortunately, are the fact that the entire psychiatry area lacks resources. As Minister of Health, back in 2012, I launched a mapping of the efforts and challenges of psychiatry, which became the stepping stone to the first ambitious psychiatry plan implemented by the Thorning government, which gave a billion boost to psychiatry and was an important step towards putting the psychiatry on the same footing as the somatic health care. I would also very much like to sign for the psychiatry plan of the previous government, which was agreed with the Danish People's Party, but I would also like to say here today that, despite the good plans and extra money, we are far from achieving it. It also tells me that there are no snapshot solutions. In fact, there have been quite a lot of negotiations on the basis of the tragic incidents of violence that have been seen, but we need some more fundamental, long-term solutions here. It must also be a conclusion that remains. That is why the government, together with the Finance Parties, set aside 600 million. kr. to a significant increase in treatment psychiatry, we have lifted the municipal and regional economy by 3 billion. kr., and we will continue to prioritise the economy behind welfare. And I would like to expand on that when I have the floor again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135323	Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135324	Well, the minister doesn't answer that. The minister answers as if you've been looking backwards at psychiatry for the last 10 years and something like that. That's not what this is about. It's about an emergency package here and now. We've all been together, all the parties, trying to do some things in this psychiatry. We all agree that we need to make a long-term plan, but that is not what we are talking about. What we are talking about now is whether the Minister will ensure an emergency package, which the social educators have actually gone out and have made some firm proposals: to provide a guarantee of proper professionalism, to guarantee skills development and supervision, and to provide a guarantee of sufficient staff, as well as a guarantee of right offers and matches. This is something that can be done now, rather than waiting for a 10-year plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135408	But the questioner does not hear me standing here saying that everything has to wait for a ten-year plan. The 10-year plan for basically lifting psychiatry and getting equal psychiatry with somatic health care is crucial, and I think the questioner actually thinks so. Just as the evaluation of the specialized social area to ensure that we have the right offers, the right competences and the right match for the citizens who are out there is crucial. After all, we should not have citizens who are severely ill and who are too badly ill to be on a specific housing offer, in relation to what we have of competences there, and that is therefore a more fundamental structural problem, and that is why it is also important to evaluate the specialized social area that the government has set in motion if we are to resolve this. And I have taken note of the good suggestions of the social educators. I also think that the FOA has been on the table with some good proposals, and I will say something more about that next time I have the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135453	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135454	Uh, that would be so nice to secure an emergency package here and now? For then we can start discussing the special seats that we all more or less agreed on and that should take care of some of these things, but that just doesn't work. Is this something that you also want to look at, or should you wait for the evaluation that is under way? Well, we're waiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135526	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135527	But that is an answer to what it takes to ensure that we do not stand here again in eight years' time. Now there have been six killings since 2012, when there have been changing governments since then and a large number of initiatives and actions that have been widely agreed in the Danish Parliament and that we have believed and hoped for, I assume, when you have been in the agreement about that would make a difference here. And that shows, of course, that if there was one snappy solution that you could implement over a day or a week or month, I would catch it. But there are several things that need to be done, and that is what the social educators themselves point to. And a significant part of the solutions lies in the work we are doing, and it is therefore within the clear horizon that it will be completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135603	Mrs Liselott Blixt's last question in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135604	Will the Minister ensure that an emergency package will come in the near future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135611	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135612	Well, I won't deny anything. I think that these are some good proposals that have come from the FOA and from the social educators. I have asked for a report from the Social Protection Agency to find out what is in the specific case which may give rise to changes and similar with the knowledge of the Labour Inspectorate. And then we have to deal with it. I don't want to stand here pretending that anyone does. I don't think the questioner can point to one quickfix solution that makes us get rid of the far too dangerous working environment that is on some of our accommodation offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135640	The question is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135644	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135645	We'll keep going in a different direction. Does the Minister believe that more people should be trained for work in social psychiatry, for example? as psychiatric assistants, so that employees do not risk having to deal with a dangerous resident alone and thereby put themselves at risk, in order to avoid more employees losing their lives during their work in social psychiatry?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135710	I very much agree with the questioner that we need to look at whether there are the right competences and the right resources on social psychiatric housing offers, and it is also about education, which is what the questioner is asking about here now. Working with people with severe mental problems on a home offer is not routine work. This requires an in-depth understanding and insight into the situation and reaction patterns of the individual resident when they, for example, are involved. suffering from their psychic illness or feeling pressured in everyday life. These are employees who work every day yesterday to provide care and make a difference to people with mental disorders. This requires our recognition, and it requires our support and support. For the government, it is crucial that we do not make patch solutions, for example. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. That is why we have also launched a more fundamental evaluation of the whole of the specialized social area, which is, of course, the first step towards a genuinely specialised social plan. A tragic case like this clearly shows why we need to ensure that there are the right competences out there, that there are the right resources for the right citizens with the complexity they now have. If you are mentally ill, you should not be on a home offer where there is not the right professional knowledge or resources, that is, the number of employees present; it provides a dangerous working environment, nor does it provide the right care for employees. That's why we need to look at professionalism. But we need to turn it around that way, to ensure that there are the right offers overall and that, as a society, we have the offers to match the citizens' groups we have who need help. That is why this is something we need to look at when we make both the 10-year plan for psychiatry, but also when we have to deal with the evaluation of the specialized social area and the fundamental structural change that has to be in this area. No one is going to work with fear of being alone with an outgoing resident without being able to get help. There must be the necessary staff resources, both when it comes to numbers and when it comes to professionalism. It has to be a matter of course in our social psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135909	Mrs. Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113135910	In the Danish People's Party we want a new education as a psychiatric assistant. There is no point in us continuing to wait. We took it up with the previous government, we got it into our health reform. I had talks with the FOA and the National Association of Social Education to see how we could try to do an education so that we would not have to go through social and health education first and thus in nursing homes and all sorts of other places, and to ensure that we, for example, were able to do so. could attract some more men, especially in relation to those who have a more outgoing behavior. But, unfortunately, as we know, there was another majority. That is why I had hoped that some of the things we have worked on would have been grasped. It is now a few years ago and must we work on a 10-year plan before we start talking about it again? Now is the moment. We have plenty of people who have become unemployed because of companies that have gone down, planes that are no longer flying and what else might be. It could be that it was here that we could help to start working on how to secure this education so that we could attract more. It is not just about retraining some of those who are already there, because they are too few hands, and if we do not get any more hands, they will also stop, and then it is a vicious circle, and that is what we have seen. So that is the education I hope you will take up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140038	Well, well, there's no doubt that professional competence matters. In the specific case, two skilled workers were at work, a social educator and a social and health assistant, if I have understood correctly from the reference to the case, but that is something we can get some answers to. In any case, it is quite true that it matters that there is no such thing as that. in a housing offer with severely ill citizens are many without any professional background, without any training that is at work or that you have a high sickness absence, and that the temporary employment cover that then comes in is employees who are not professionally qualified. It is something of the quality that must be in place and that the Social Protection Agency is also watching.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140115	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140116	That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about the lack of hands in psychiatry, both in social psychiatry and in treatment psychiatry. That's where we need more people and where we have to make the good spiral for you to want to work in psychiatry. Therefore, it is important that we have an entrance for some of those who may find it difficult to see themselves in the educations that are now but want to work with these people. And it had nothing to do with who was at work when the terrible thing happened that someone was killed, because they were educated. We need more people so they can be more than one at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140152	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140152-2	I think that the framework of work alone has something to say, not just here, but at all, when we talk about this being one of the sectors where there is the most dangerous working environment when it comes to the risk of violence. And then I think we should also be honest with each other and say that this is very, very complex. This means that it is not something where it can be a qualification in itself that one is great and strong; there is a need for professionalism. That is why I am not going to stand here and reject the fact that there may be a need for special training or modules that can be built on top, or otherwise, but only make it clear that this is an area of high complexity, and therefore there must also be a strong professionalism and some good education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140232	The last question to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140233	I am a little sorry that that is what you come to every time you ask a minister, which means that several different governments have been asked. Then it is the case that you have to look into what you just need to set up a committee, and then you have to set up something else and then you go one year, the other year and the third year, and then people forget until the next murder happens. That's what's happening. You will not promise that anything will happen soon, so we will ensure that employees are not left alone with very outgoing citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140300	But that is not exactly the right picture the rapporteur is drawing up. With the 2019-2022 Rate Pool Agreement, 100 million was allocated. kr. I have before me a long, long list of initiatives that we have taken together in the Folketing, which we have thought would make a difference. And we must note that today has not been enough. Some of it has been good, but not enough; with some of it we have just chosen to continue with the reserve agreement we have now made on effort teams. But that's not enough. Something has happened, but it is not enough, and that is why we should not wait for years. We have to act on this. I have stood here today and said that I reject nothing in advance. Now we are looking at the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140335	That's the end of the question. Thank you. Although Mrs Liselott Blixt has not touched the speaker table, we need to get the alcohol off. Liselott Blixt but you could do without it, I think). Thank you. We go further, and it remains the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, but now it is Mrs Bjerre, the Left, who is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140358	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140400	Thank you. When does the government plan to make its move to the child's law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140406	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140406-2	During the past year, the main focus of the government has been on dealing with the Corona crisis. This has been a major and very important task, and for me, as Minister for Social Affairs, it has been primarily about protecting vulnerable citizens during decommissioning, not least the vulnerable children and families, who have been particularly hard hit by many of the changes that we have had to accept to live with in our everyday lives. It is clear that when the focus is on dealing with an extraordinary crisis, a global pandemic and the consequences it brings, there are other things that are not quite as planned. Among other things, it has. This meant that the government's proposals • The children First, of which the child's law is a part, have been delayed. However, this has not changed the government's ambition to strengthen the area of vulnerable and placed children for young people. We believe that there are far too many children in Denmark who do not get the right help in time. We need to put in the past and help the children better. Therefore, in the last year, in parallel with the management of the coronapandemic, the government has involved key stakeholders in the development of a policy that can give all children a safe childhood. Therefore, the government and the parties behind the 2021 Finance Act have allocated a total of 1.4 billion. kr. in 2021-2024, which must put the children first. We expect to launch the government's initiative soon, and I look forward very much to discussing the concrete initiatives with the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140524	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140524-2	It is understandable that the government has focused on corona, but in the Left we are also glad that the government has made so much progress that it would stand on the side of the children. It has always been a core value for the Left to stand on the side of the individual and especially in relation to those who most need it. That is why we also felt it was positive when last year the Prime Minister spent almost all of his New Year's speech on ensuring better conditions for children placed in care. But frankly, it seems a bit like warm air on the part of the government, because the government didn't come up with any proposals. This summer, in the middle of the corona, we were told that it would come in the autumn, and nothing came either. The government's legislative programme, which was presented when the Folketing opened here in October and where we were still away in the middle of a corona situation, stated that we should treat the child's law in February. It has now been postponed. In December I had a similar question in this Chamber to the Minister for Social Affairs, and there the Minister said that the debate was on the right track. Now it's been a month, and we still don't have a playout. And that is why we are now following up because, frankly, it is amazing that it has been one year since the Prime Minister launched his New Year's speech that something was going to be done for vulnerable children and that she does not even mention it in one word in the New Year's speech that has just been given. Unfortunately, one is tempted to believe that it was just Unfortunately, I do not think the Minister is specifically answering my question here, but is just saying once again that there will be an issue before long. That is why I have two specific questions which I hope the Minister will answer more specifically: 1) Why has the proposal been postponed? If the Minister says because of corona, why could it be said both in the summer and in the autumn that it would come before Christmas? Because then we were also in the middle of a corona situation. And 2) Can the Minister say more precisely when the play will be in this month, will it be before the summer, or will it even be this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140721	Thank you. I think we should have followed the political debate this year, but also in the past, very badly, if we think that we have a very strong case when we stand and claim that the preoccupation of the most vulnerable children with the Prime Minister or the Social Democratic Party is hot air. One can look at the history of Denmark, including the recent history of Denmark, one can look at the political proposals that came when we were in opposition, and one will see that the children's own rights, justice for the children born with less opportunities than others, because their parents cannot take proper care of them, and because they have grown up with failure, abuse and violence, run like a thread through the political history of social democracy. And I can clearly deny that it should have suddenly become hot air.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140802	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140803	Those are very fine words, but when I say that you are led to believe that it is hot air, it is because it remains fine words. We don't see any playout. Would the Minister not reply to this question: why has it been postponed to the child's law when it could be said this summer that it would come in the autumn? And the same goes for the government's legislative programme, where it was said in October that it would come. Why has it been postponed? What is it that makes you put it off? Has the focus changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140831	I don't know what the questioner knew about the coronapandemic this summer. I myself did not know what autumn would be like, and I do not think that any of our health authorities would say that they knew with a time perspective that was six months ahead. Now we are in a new situation with a very serious and very contagious mutation. If the questioner from the Left has a very detailed knowledge of how the coming time is going to be, the questioner is very happy to give it, not just for my sake and in relation to the planning of the children first and the child's law, but for the whole of Denmark. Well, I don't think there are many who think it's weird that dealing with a global pandemic like the one we've seen now requires a government focus and, as such, the focus of the questioner we've negotiated many agreements in place here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140910	I forgot to say at the outset that there are co-questioners, and that is Mrs Karen Ellemann. I know it is difficult, but we simply have to wipe off every time there is a new one. Good. Here you go, Mrs. Karen Ellemann: 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113140925	Thank you for that, President. But, of course, I am picking up in relation to the reaction that the Minister allowed himself to take to my party colleague: to claim that it is inappropriate to criticise exactly the Minister for Social Affairs for not doing anything in this area. It is a criticism which is very much justified because the truth is that the Minister for Social Affairs is not doing anything, and I am not aware of the Minister for Social Affairs alone who is dealing with the Corona situation. The Prime Minister does, the Minister of Business does, the Minister of Health does. After all, it is not the Ministry of Social Affairs alone that is handling the whole Coronapandemic. And so it is not fair that nothing has simply been done in this area at all, when you have launched yourself both as a government and as Prime Minister as the Prime Minister of the children. The child's law has been launched and the children first launched. It's like these fine headlines, but what's the substance of them? It might be that the Minister would reveal too little of this now when there is 1⁄2 minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141033	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141034	Thank you. I would hurry to say that I simply take it very, very positive that the Left is so preoccupied with the upcoming initiative, because it suggests very well in relation to the negotiations we are going to have and on a common concern that we should do better for the most vulnerable children in Denmark. So if I were to express anything other than that, then I'd just sign for this very strong one I wouldn't say newfound, but very strong interest in the most vulnerable children. Then I would say that we have spent a lot of gunpowder dealing with corona, and I have a very long list of political agreements and initiatives made to hold hands under the most vulnerable families and vulnerable children here under corona. In fact, I believe that each of the agreements made has been made together with the Left and the Left's talented social rapporteur, and I would also like to sign for that. I also believe that the Danes expect us to hold our hands under the most vulnerable and do what we can, here under Corona. But that does not mean that we only said that in my initial answer, which I am sure the rapporteur listened to very carefully. Throughout the year, we have been working out proposals, we have involved key stakeholders, we have held a summit, and we will soon have an initiative ready for launch and to discuss further with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141141	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141142	Soon to be ready! So the answer is, it's almost ready. It's just sometimes hard to find this patience when, in a long election campaign, you've had many good debates and discussions about what it really takes and what it really is that is lacking, and then witness how, on big, glittered, multicolored ads everywhere on billboards out in public space, you launch yourself as those who really care about children who have difficult conditions. But when it comes down to it and when we want to have the substance on the table and actually want to sit and discuss the specific paragraphs that need to be changed, the government is silent. So what is going to be in the legislative proposals that we are going to negotiate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141225	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141226	In other words, in addition to the very long series of political agreements we have made to hold hands under the most vulnerable children and vulnerable families under corona, we also have, in addition to working to qualify for the child's law that will soon come, of course made various agreements and again actually also with the Left; first, a compensation agreement that changed the refund rules so that it is not the case that the most expensive children's cases hit the municipalities which, for example, have to be dealt with. have large flocks of siblings that should be placed hard. So we are holding our hands stronger under the municipalities facing the greatest challenges, and in the financial law agreement part of the reserve was also a large number of initiatives for vulnerable children, so something has happened in the past year too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141304	Then it is Mrs Marie Bjerre for her last question. And thanks to Mrs Karen Ellemann for wiping off there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141307	Thank you. We don't really get an answer about when this is gonna happen. The Minister will not answer what it means, that it is just on the way, that is whether it means it comes in this month or that it comes before the summer holiday or that it comes at the end of the year. I hear that the Minister, on the other hand, has done something about the project and has at least involved stakeholders, and then I would like to hear: why have the rapporteurs not been involved in it? I think that, when we stand down here and have the public debate, the public should be told that we have not been involved in that process at all. What has been the involvement of stakeholders and why, above all, have the rapporteurs not been involved in this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141353	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141354	Well, as I said, I choose to take the impatience of the Left as a quite positive sign in relation to the negotiations we are facing. Now, along with the Finance Law parties, funding has been secured in the Finance Act, and so I also know that there is a great commitment to this agenda for them. And I choose to go with me from here today, that the Left also feels a responsibility for us to make the basic better as a society for the most vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141416	The question is over. We shall continue with questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and Mrs Bjerre will continue to do so and will ask Mrs Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141422	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141424	Thank you. Does the government believe that it has done enough in the last year to ensure better conditions for vulnerable children, as the Prime Minister announced in his New Year speech on January 1, 2020 that the government would?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141440	Thank you. The Coronapandemic has meant that for most of a year we have been in a very special situation where the most important task for the government has been to bring us as well as possible through the crisis. In this work, we, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, have had a special focus on the fact that the most vulnerable in our society, not least vulnerable children and young people, are being taken care of, because we know that children and young people who already have a lot to fight with have had a particularly hard time. That is why we have maintained the social area as a critical function throughout. We have continuously developed guidelines, etc., so that social work has been able to be carried out in a sound manner in terms of health. The Corona has been very hard on vulnerable children and their families, and that is why we have taken a whole series of initiatives together to help vulnerable children and young people well through the Corona crisis. I do not need to mention them to the questioner, because I believe that the questioner has been involved in negotiating them all: children's packages for civil society, partnership in the field of children, holiday camps, summer holiday aid, activities, support for Christmas and efforts to combat loneliness. In addition to this, as I explained in previous questions, we have taken other important initiatives in this area, including: amended the reimbursement rules in the compensatory reform; launching an ambitious evaluation of the specialized social area so that we can provide the right help for vulnerable children and young people who are in our places and in 24-hour institutions; launching a 10-year plan for psychiatry with a special focus on children and young people. Then, together with the reserve, we have also launched a whole series of very good initiatives in relation to vulnerable children and young people, in other words the reserve for social, health and labour market measures. Among other things: nearly 40 million have been set aside. kr. to a knowledge centre on child involvement and the lives of vulnerable children. We have given a boost to the continuing training of foster families, in other words by means of funds. In addition to that, we have worked on the ambitious initiative which is just ahead of us and which I look forward to presenting to Parliament's parties, and which I am pleased to hear that the Left is looking forward to so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141639	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141641	The minister didn't really answer our last question about when to launch the playout to the child's law... only that you have set aside money for it. And the Minister wouldn't even answer when this is gonna come, or lift the veil on the content. We now get an answer about what has been done in general for children and young people and too lonely. But this is all about what you've done for the most vulnerable children for the children you've planted. Now that I am asking about this, it is because there are major challenges with the conditions for vulnerable children and their families, and even greater are the challenges of making a difference, a real difference, for these children. For despite the good intentions, and despite what we have also done under the bourgeois government, we are not lifting it well enough. There have been too many cases in the past year, when children and their families are not being treated well enough; where children are experiencing too many shifts; where parents do not think they are getting enough help and support. And we saw more cases in the press. It is probably clear from the question here that we do not believe that the government has done enough, and certainly not when one considers that the government has marketed itself that more would be done for children placed in care. And that is why I would also like to see what the Minister is now listing, which is not really very much about children placed in care, children exposed, there are a few initiatives, among others. That we have strengthened the foster families, which was a clear priority for the Left in the reserve negotiations, say that not much has been done in the last year's time. We are almost led to ask: has anything ever been done that will change the conditions for children placed in care? Does the government think that's good enough? Can we expect anything more? Have we had too high expectations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141824	I do not agree that what has been done is not good enough. In fact, I believe that the Danes would look both puzzled and disappointed at the government if we had set aside the important task of shielding the most vulnerable children and families from this corona crisis. After all, we have spent our time negotiating all the various political agreements, and when we have maintained the social area as a critical function and followed the area very closely with guidance and announcements, etc. in relation to those actors out there who help these kids every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141855	Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141857	It is very good that the measures have been taken, in general, for children and young people that we in the Left have been involved in; the Left has been involved in those negotiations. I am asking specifically about the conditions for children placed in care. There are a lot of children who are not well enough in Denmark and where we do not lift social mobility well enough. That is why I have to ask whether, frankly, the Minister thinks that the government has done well enough for children placed in care and whether more will be done during this year, especially in view of the fact that the Social Democracy has been promoted, that something would be done for vulnerable children and children placed in care. And there hasn't been anything for that target group.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113141933	It is simply wrong what the rapporteur of the Left is saying. We've been working on shielding the most vulnerable during the corona crisis, harshly, and thank you to the Left for having been part of the agreements that have been made. I would have liked to see how the Left would have pulled the government in the Chamber if one had closed one's eyes and not spent the time on those who were at risk of having finished a three to four months earlier, if that is what the Left is asking for. I don't hear that, and I hope not. This proposal is coming, and it will bring about some of the fundamental changes that were needed, because the Left had the power of government and this was not something that took up the Left quite as much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142006	Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142009	Thank you, President. One gets a little impression that the measures taken here in connection with the Corona in the social field have been in connection with some very, very difficult, time-consuming negotiations. Allow me to say that it has not been, as the parties have supported it. So it has not been difficult negotiations, and that is why I do not buy the premise that it is not possible at the same time to get ready to exactly launch the long-awaited child's law. That is why I shall use my speaking time now to ask about it. Because I understand that the Minister has spoken to all the stakeholders, apart from the political parties, which are the ones the government has to find 90 seats with in order to make this a reality. Having spoken to all the stakeholders, is it concrete legislative proposals and amendments and a new main law that we can expect to see in the game? I hope the Minister would like to reveal that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142106	This is not the first time I have been in the Chamber with questioners from Parliament's parties about this, i.e. where it has been hoped that on a Wednesday issue I would launch the government's children's first play or the child's law. Nor do I believe that the rapporteur will be very disappointed when I announce that I am not going to launch the government's first children's first act or the child's law as a new legislation on a Wednesday issue; I think the questioner knows that too. I would say that there is no reason to buy the premise that you have not been able to work on this proposal because you have had to deal with corona at the same time, because we have done both things exactly as the questioner asks. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142140	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142142	Then once again, as the largest opposition party, one must arm oneself with patience and shake one's head over the fact that it must take so long to invite to those negotiations. Yes, it should not be a secret that we are looking forward to sitting at the negotiating table with huge expectations that this is a well-thought-out exercise, where it has already been discussed with all possible stakeholders other than the parties of the Folketing. Could we perhaps say something about whether other ministers are also involved? Does this also have anything to do with education? Is it perhaps also social educators, etc., who have to see that their education is changing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142222	Well, there's gonna be a big concert. And this picture, which has also been a little tried by the Left, that it should so hover completely in the uncertainty, what it is going to be about, and what the purpose of the child's law is, isn't right either. Well, that was an important part of the message, partly in the Prime Minister's New Year speech, partly at the press conference that was held at the government seminar afterwards. We need to get these kids the right help. We must provide them with help in the past so that childhood does not become a judgment on the child's life. We need to secure them from fewer shifts. And I am just glad that the Left is looking forward so much to the negotiations where we have to secure it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142254	Then it is after thorough despriting Mrs Marie Bjerre for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142301	Thank you. Well, it's too bad we can't get any more insight into what this game is gonna be about. However, I understand that the Minister has spoken to a number of stakeholders. We would have liked to have had that insight too. And frankly, I fear that the course of negotiations we are going through will be somewhat sloppy when you get so late and get involved so late. I would therefore like to end by asking why the Minister has not invited us social rapporteurs to those meetings with stakeholders. Why have we not been able to gain the same insight? Would that not have provided a good basis for the forthcoming negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142337	After all, only yesterday we had a joint meeting in which we had a large number of the key players in this area discussing a very concrete study, carried out by the unit of legal certainty, of the alleged coercion, and fortunately we can see that there is a basis for placement in all the cases in which the municipalities place children. There were the rapporteurs and there were the stakeholders. I am just glad that the questioner would like to have this kind of activity, and then I will go with me from the Chamber here today, that there is a Left that is looking forward to being very much involved in ensuring that we help these children earlier and better and shield them against as many shifts as they are experiencing today, among other things very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142414	Thank you to the Minister, thank you to Mrs Bjerre, and thank you to Mrs Ellemann. The question is over. We shall continue with a question to the Minister for Health and the Elderly. That's by Mr. Keating. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti, and co-questioner is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142430	After thorough desiccation: Here for reading the question, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142435	Does the Minister believe that the conditions offered by the Capital Region of Denmark to birthing and newly baked mothers meet the standards that the Social Democracy before the 2019 elections promised to ensure the pregnant and newly baked mothers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142450	Thank you very much for the question. My answer is very clear: no, I do not think so. And that is not just the Capital Region; it is all five regions. There are 60,000 children born in Denmark each year, and there are a lot of good, safe births, but there are far too many who experience an environment that is too stressful and too many who are discharged prematurely and who have problems with breast-feeding and with the first critical days that a new family has, and therefore we have to do better. If someone is not interested in it, it is also quite fine, and then they need help in other ways, but if you have interest and need it, it is our aim to offer it, and quite specifically it will be included in the forthcoming negotiations on a health reform. Then I would say that, for my part, I have spent a great deal of energy reading books and reading articles and meeting directly with new mothers, and I think that we sometimes think about ourselves, who are the fathers of a little older children: that's probably how it's still gone, and that's probably fine. But that's not how it's still gone. There has been a clear increase in pressure and there has been a clear increase in stress in the departments. Something is about structure, something is about economy, and something is about whether there are enough trained midwives, and no matter what the government's ambition is that this should be corrected. It is absolutely crucial that we give the new-baked families, the newborns and the new-baked mothers and fathers the best opportunities to get a good start.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142644	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142645	Thank you to the Minister, of course in the first place. After all, the Minister has now moved from the opposition bench to the government bench. One could almost get the impression from what the Minister for Health is saying here that he still sees himself as one sitting on the opposition bench and telling a government that this must now be improved and that it is clearly unsatisfactory. So now we have been in government for over a year and a half, about a year and a half, and a few agreements have been made with the regions on the operation of hospitals, and I know that there are a lot about corona that of course absorbs and something like that; I do not neglect that in any way. But you've had a few attempts anyway. You go to the polls on a very, very specific promise, and we do have it in the hours of caring. The current prime minister was, and this is depicted in the material, internship as a nurse at Hvidovre Hospital, Denmark's largest birthplace, and there is actually such a fine picture of the current prime minister as a nurse student there, i.e. internship. In the same paper, it says exactly this: that new mothers should have the right to stay in the hospital or a maternity hotel for two days, as the Minister for Health also mentioned in her answer, and then you have to ask after a year and a half: how are things going? Is it progressing, and are you in the process of fulfilling that promise, or are you in reverse and on your way away from that promise? Will the Minister of Health tell whether, in relation to the knowledge that the Minister of Health has of course also informed him, he is of course well briefed on such a Question Time as we have today about what is actually going on in the Capital Region specifically, then will think that we are moving towards the government's fulfilling this promise in the Capital Region, or whether we are actually in reverse on our way away from fulfilling the promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142828	In relation to the specific issue of the capital, I have just been briefed for this Question Time, and what I have been told is that they have started work on training more midwives and that it has been decided to create a new birthplace at Bispebjerg Hospital, which will relieve the region's other maternity departments, and on four of the region's birthplaces, food clinics have also been set up separate from the feeding path, which will allow food in a more secure and homely environment. That's some of what they think they're working on. But that is not enough. So that's where we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142906	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142908	Thank you for that, President. But the point is that if we look specifically at the Capital Region, is it a requirement that, as a rule, if there are no special complications in connection with the birth, we should leave the hospital or the maternity hotel? It is a hospital when it is within such a short time within 8 hours, i.e. 8 hours after birth, for political treatment? It is something new that is on the way which restricts the possibilities of those who are born. Is the Minister for Health and the Elderly not just so quiet that it moves away from the election promise of the Social Democratic Party and not closer to the election promise of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113142948	I totally agree. It does. I note that there has been a lot of political debate. I thought that was also expected and wise. And as I understand it, the Capital Region also has some political discussions in the future about this element. I have not seen the concrete proposal, I have only seen it in the press, but for me it is moving away from an opportunity for and that is what we are working to offer all new mothers a stay of up to 2 days in a patient hotel or in the maternity hall if they need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143025	Then we go to the co-questioner, Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143029	Thank you very much. Now, as the health rapporteur, I have been discussing this issue for 13 years, and I have discussed it very much with the Socialist rapporteurs who have been in this area. So we have again wanted more, and more was promised before the elections, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also says, but we still see that they are going out with this message in the capital, which makes a lot of women uncomfortable. We saw the other day a television show where the midwives went home stressed, and they stopped working there. It's an evil spiral. Why do you let it get there when you have actually said that it is something that you care about? And why are we only going to do something when the debate is being taken up in the media? It was decided last month at Hvidovre Hospital. What did the Minister do about it? Have you had a conversation with Hvidovre Hospital that this isn't the way they should go? Have you looked at cutting by 3.3 million? kr. in the Capital Region? So, what is the Minister doing to enable us to live up to the electoral promises we made?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143128-2	In concrete terms, we have made it clear that we have adopted some financial laws and concluded a couple of municipal and regional agreements, in which money is set aside precisely for strengthening health care. It is more on a general level, and I fully accept that. This is among other things. to increase the number of nurses by 1,000, and we are very close to achieving that objective, because we have also given priority to concrete means of achieving it. After all, it is not just in the maternity wards, and it is not what ultimately saves the whole health care system, but it is a way forward for us to have more nurses rather than, as has been the case for some years, fewer. So in general we have kept our hands under welfare and gradually built on, but what stands out and what I fully recognise is the work that needs to be done in connection with our future health reform, where we will address precisely the issue of ensuring better conditions for food. What has happened since we promised it during the opposition period is that we have gone into government and have written an understanding paper with the other parties that support us, and it is also very clear that the conditions for the birthers need to be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143237-2	Then I wonder if you give some money and tell the region that they will have to decide for themselves what they want to spend the money on if they go out and save at the same time. I mean, there's got to be more than an understanding document that you actually live up to the electoral promises you made. When we in the Danish People's Party got set, I think it was 330 million. kr. We were mocked at the maternity ward. They mocked us and said it wasn't enough money. Then you come to two years later, and nothing has happened. Can the Minister not see that something is missing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143307	Well, I guess it's about three things. Firstly, it is about the political direction one wants to take, and there I think we in the Folketing can reach a fairly broad consensus. Then it is also a question of a willingness to give priority to the resources that are needed, and then it is also a question of the political craftsmanship that is needed in order to make the concrete agreement and implementation, so that it also makes sense for health professionals and can be seen in the lives of the individual's newly baked parent. That's what this is all about. The will is there. We have shown in the agreements we have made that the money is also ready to be set aside, and what we lack is the health reform in which this element would have to be addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143349	Then the main questioner will have one final final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143354	The Minister of Health must excuse us for taking this so seriously. But one writes in a paper before the election that new mothers are supposed to be standing now with these headlines: "The first-time feeding must now leave the department after eight hours," which is a step backwards in relation to it, and "Jordemothers cry and give birth to trauma." Then it seems as if it has not been a very high priority. I know there have been other things to do. So it is not at all to neglect it, but the Minister for Health must understand that for the women who are actually going to give birth and the families that it concerns, it is of no use to say that it will be better in two years' time or in four years' time. After all, it is now a question of stopping the deterioration that is happening and then building on and making improvements. So, in the first place, I hope that the Minister of Health will have to make a commitment here today to make sure that the deterioration that appears to be occurring in the Capital Region is somehow stopped, so that instead we can start building improvements rather than making deteriorations in relation to what we want to achieve together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143501	I am very, very pleased that our election papers are being read out in this Chamber. That's my worklist. In addition to the things that are unexpected, that is what I simply have to work towards, and I must be able to deliver and sign every single point of the things that we have specifically said to the Danes. There are two reasons for this: one is because we have promised it and the other is because we think it is important. I am pleased that the Danish People's Party also thinks this is important, and that is why I look forward to a discussion when we negotiate the health reform. It may be one of the major elements that can make it work and make it become a broad agreement with many parties, so that it is also a health reform that will actually work out in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143540	Thank you to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, thank you to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for her work today. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 11, and this is for the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and the questioner is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143600	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143603	Thank you, sir. President. Does the Minister think that it is a reasonable situation in which the government has put minkkeepers in that they are now about two months later still waiting for both the final compensations, but also covering the costs of slaughtering, cooling and transport, and not least their tempo bonus?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143624	Thank you very much, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby for these good questions. There should be no doubt that I would also have liked to have seen that, immediately after the decision to kill was taken, we could have pressed the button and started the payments to mink farmers. Nor should there be any doubt that I want the payments to be made as quickly as possible so that mink farmers can recover their losses and costs. Therefore, the negotiations have also been very high on the government's agenda ■ it has been high priority. As you know, payments of compensation and compensation to mink farmers can only start once the elements of the compensation and compensation scheme have been agreed and the European Commission has given the green light. I didn't imagine in my wildest imagination that we would be standing here today without an agreement. As far as tempo bonus is concerned, it can only be paid once the Commission has given the green light. The assessment is that it is most appropriate, in the interests of a swift and flexible procedure in the European Union, for the total compensation to be approved in one. As far as fees are concerned, the FDA has informed me that they are starting to pay out in zone 2 precisely in these hours. We were out here this weekend saying it came this week, and it does. So, the fee for having knocked the animals down etc. will be paid out right now and over the next few weeks. But I am very sorry that it takes so long, and I am also a little puzzled that it is so heavy a process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113143754	I wish I could say that the Minister gave a full and well-founded answer to this tragic situation. I fully agree that the new Minister for Food should not stand down here as a kind of Comic Ali defending the deeds of past times and also deeds that have been done by other people, both the Prime Minister here in Denmark, but also other ministers, but the matter is more complicated than that. For example, in connection with this committee question No. 11 involved a Minister of Business, a outgoing Minister of Food, a Minister of Food, a Minister of Economic Affairs, a Minister of Finance and a Minister of Finance. It's just like sketching how many different giraffes from the government are chewing on this bone. We in the Danish People's Party think that it seems rather strange that you have no more control over how things should be done in practical terms. I took note, for example. On 15 November, the correct Minister of Industry stated that a clarification would be provided for all companies concerned. • All 1,100 mink growing companies would be clarified within 14 days. It was a guarantee given by the Minister, and now we are standing here in January 2021, and have we become wiser? No, we're not. Is it getting better? No, it isn't. It is also a pity, of course, that the Minister should stand here in the Chamber and be the one to accept my bile and frustration, but it is just the honest truth that the government has not done this task in any reasonable way. After all, the minister justifies himself in the end by saying that in these hours there will be a lot of historic payments. Yes, it is because the Food Authority has been caught in violating the EU's payment directive. That is the honest truth of the matter. I would like to ask the Minister: now that the Minister is using it as a justification, is it not correct to assume that this is due to the fact that the EU's payment directive has been discovered to have been violated?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144011	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144013	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is positive that Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby is using his role as a parliamentarian to put pressure on us in the government to take care of the interests of the mink. It's democracy at its best. I think that when you look at the delays that have been experienced here, it is due to different circumstances and not to the fact that ministers have been replaced in relation to the actual negotiations. It is true that it was the Minister of Industry who started the negotiations, but then it has happened that he has unfortunately become ill. There have then been, if not the big negotiations, some sort of bilateral negotiations with, among others. the Left party, just like getting that main block in place. As Minister for Food, from the time I was appointed, I attended all the meetings I could possibly do. There were a few days when I was down in Brussels negotiating quotas in the fisheries sector, so I could not be involved, but one has been hand in hand with this, and it is not the fact that there has been a change in the ministerial seats that has caused us to be late, but the fact that there are parties that have used their entirely legitimate parliamentary right to ask a number of questions that they would have liked to have clarified before they could reach an agreement. So this is the case with parliamentarianism. That is the way it is in a democracy, namely that if you are to have a majority, you must also use the time it takes to get things negotiated. And if people have a lot of questions, you have to take it from there. It is also true that there has been some procedure in the Ministry of Food, where they have had difficulty in reaching it on time, also because there are creditors who have to have transport in the money to be paid out, and then there is something that has to be approved in the EU etc. The statement in question that something should have been violated within the European Union is not something I am told about, but I do want to do so in Mr Seligman's report. His Kristian Skibby's request will investigate further. That sounds interesting, and we have to ask that question. I am just glad that the fees in question are being paid now, and then it also seems that, not least with the participation of the Danish People's Party, there are beginning to be a little positive steps forward, and I hope that we can have a full and complete compensation scheme for those poor mink growers who have had to keep incredibly busy in this boring situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144231	After all, I think that the Minister gives an historic outline of many of the things that have happened, and that is perfectly understandable. I just think that as a government one should perhaps also try to see things from the other side. After all, the Minister says that it is fair and so on and that it is fair of the opposition to its role. But is it reasonable, in relation to the work of the people's regime, that we should hold night-time debates on Tuesday 17, Wednesday 18 and Thursday 19 November? It is the last negotiations that have been where the Danish People's Party has been involved. These are the last negotiations that have taken place on the terms of compensation for the 1,150 mink growers affected in Denmark. Then there will be an orientation meeting on 30 November. We have been nice to call that the last negotiating meeting, but there was no debate, there was no evidence, there were no calculations and no notes could be handed over from the government to the opposition. Does the Minister himself think that it is reasonable to call it a negotiation when he refuses to give out calculations and letters?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144333	I am very sorry that the Danish People's Party feels that it has not been sufficiently involved in these negotiations. Perhaps it could have been done in a different way. What I have seen in the time I have been Minister for Food is that there have been some preliminary negotiations, and then there has been a special need to make bilateral progress, especially with the Left, because it has been seen as an important party to be included, because it is a great and leading force in the blue block. I can see that it could have been smart to have been better at informing the Danish People's Party on a regular basis. We also regretted this during yesterday's debate. It would have been appropriate to spend that time providing better feedback to you along the way or an ongoing orientation and also involve you more. But one has had the focus that it was first and foremost important to get the Left on board, because then you could see a whole and a width in it, and it might have been smarter. I take note of that and thank you for the critical feedback.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144434	We shall now turn to the questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144436	I note, of course, that the Minister used the phrase again: to inform the parties. But we really do not need information. We need a debate, and when you have a debate, information and dialogue come on their own. That's why we're saying it's a little scared. After all, it is a huge illusion that the Prime Minister is out in when she says on TV 2 this weekend that there have been negotiations and that she expects an agreement by the end of the week. It's an illusion. It's something that goes on inside people's heads. This is not really happening, and that is what is simply provoking me so fervently, that is, when I can sit and look in my inbox and see that I have not been invited to any of these meetings, and then the Prime Minister is saying that negotiations are going on broadly to find 90 mandates. I hope that the Minister will take these considerations with him to his colleagues for many different colleagues who have unfortunately been involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144540	But negotiations have been going on widely to find 90 mandates, as I mentioned in my previous reply. In view of the relatively constructive negotiations we had last night, I think there is more reason to focus on making it run and getting the country good deal than standing here talking us apart. These minkers have waited long enough. Now let's concentrate on getting a whole and a full replacement for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144609	Thank you both. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It is also for the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and the questioner is also Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144620	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144624	Thank you, sir. President. Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable that the Minister could only find time in his calendar on 14 January 2021 for a consultation on the status and terms of payment of compensation, advance payment and compensation to the approximately 1,100 mink growers when I already called the Minister for the consultation on 2 December 2020 on behalf of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144648	Again, thank you very much, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby for the question. And I fully agree with Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby in that consultation questions should be answered no later than 4 weeks after the question has been asked, exactly as is the starting point of the Danish Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We're looking at the calendar a little bit, from Mr. Simpson. Hans Kristian Skibby asked this question, so apart from Christmas holidays and week 1, where Parliament wasn't open... we only spent the four weeks in the rules. By the way, I share Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby's attitude that it is very urgent to get these payments to the mink farmers started as soon as possible so that the mink farmers can recover their losses and costs. As I mentioned in my previous reply to the fees for knocking down these minks, they are in the process of being paid out precisely in these hours. However, there are wider negotiations going on. We also mentioned this in the answer to the previous question, and that has the highest priority for the government to have a negotiation and an agreement on the full and total compensation. Because once it is in place, we can also start paying out the remaining money. And there is an outstanding one, also in relation to the tempo bonus and to the replacement of minkskin, which we can only get approved in the European Union once we have the main drawing in place. And that is where I hope that the good, constructive style, such as: Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby's own party, the Danish People's Party, showed yesterday, continues in the coming days so that we can very quickly make a good deal with a full and complete replacement for the poor mink growers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144841	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113144842	I am, of course, grateful for the Minister's speech, but I would still like to arrest some of the premises. For what characterises my motivation to put consultation questions to both the Minister for Industry and the Minister for Food back in December of 2 December was that, firstly, there was no real clarification, even if it had been put in the perspective of the ministers. And secondly, at the same time, they were bills that had been charged to the minkkeepers: hello, sir. Minkkeeper, you have to knock down your entire crew, you get paid by the state to do it, just get started! They did. Some were visited by the military, others by the police. Others just did it. And then you let the mink farmers lay out a cost of enlisting extra staff and ordering machines and equipment to carry out the killing of these 17 million minks. It is hoped that they will be taken into account in health care systems; people are chartered to do so. You do cleaning, you rent refrigerators, etc. to reduce the genes. After all, all the expenses are quite common expenses, just as if the Minister of Business has ordered a window cleaner to clean all the windows in the Ministry of Business. It must be paid for well done work. It is an order that you get; it is a task that you get. And when you do the job, you have to have money for the work you've done. We do not see why the European Union should be asked about this. I don't think you're asking if a business owner can polish the windows of the Department of Business. Then why should we ask whether a mink can clean up on government account, if I may say so? It is therefore a strange situation in our best judgment, and that is why it is so important for us to move forward and clarify these thousands of questions which these companies and their owners and their employees and their suppliers and all sorts of others of course have. Then it's a provocation when I'm on December 2 to know: Well, it's just six weeks before you can get a consultation. That is why I am surprised that the government is not more accommodating when it comes to carrying out the consultations more quickly. I think that is a very justified criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145109	I have only wanted to take part in that consultation as soon as possible. There's a hectic calendar. There's been the mink case, there's been the brexite, there's been something else. And we're spending all the time on my calendar to reach these things. So, of course, I'm sorry if it's been a few days late. Now we have a date, and we have a meeting tomorrow and I look forward to it, and I look forward to it. Again, I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby spends time here defending the interests of the mink growers. That is what we need, that is to say, to address the needs that exist. And it's also important that we keep each other in our ears when this has to go faster. I have also been frustrated and despaired by the wait there is. So it turns out that there are some complications in the payment of this. Among other things: There is the fact that you must not simply pay out anything from the public to the private sector without ensuring that those who have something for the benefit of those concerned are paid first. What we have done by the government is to write into law no. 77 that the public authorities have to wait to recover their debts, so that this is not what slows it down. But there are among other things. other creditors who are very keen to get their money, and we cannot just do that, that we pay them out without it being taken into account. Then there is also the technical part of it. As regards professional fees, it does not need to be approved in the EU. That's where we're paying out right now. But it is the case that when you are to be compensated for a product you have, there is something about you having to be examined for, among other things. illegal state aid and other things, and that is what we are doing. But we will do it as soon as possible. I understand the frustration here; I share it too. I had hoped that this would be done more quickly, but we will be able to discuss this further in the conciliation which Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby has been waiting too long for. Here it comes tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145255	I would like to appeal to us, even though blood is running a little faster when we discuss this kind of sensitive thing, to try to keep to the speaking time a little better than until now. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145305	Once again, the Minister mentioned that I should like to thank him for taking care of the interests of mink growers. I think it is a little strange that a minister like insinuating that, because you ask some legitimate questions down here, you should, like, be a little in the pocket of some industries. I don't care for the interests of minkkeepers. I care for the interests of the people's government. I take care of the words of the Constitution because there had been an attack on 1,100 private people's property rights here in the Kingdom of Denmark. It doesn't mean I'm in the pocket of some mink farmers. I have to say this to the Minister, who has said it several times now, although I let it pass for the first time: that is a wrong way of discussing it here in the Folketing. I do not take care of the interests of any particular sector. I carry out my task as a critical opposition when there are citizens or companies that get stuck in the system and rightly feel mistreated. Whether it had been the people of Christiania or the people of Gentofte or mink growers would in fact be completely irrelevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145414	So it was meant to be quite frank recognition and praise for that effort and not as any insinuation or suggestion of anything. I think it is important in a democracy to listen to the citizens, bring them in and confront the ministers responsible with: can that really be right? Here's a case where Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby is quite right in saying that it is desperate to wait so long, and it is important that there is a representative like Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, who tackles it and pushes us and says: Can it really be right? And then I'll come and explain. I can then explain that we are doing everything we can. There are some technical things I have explained and then there are some EU elements that I have also explained. Now we have even time for a conciliation tomorrow to go into depth with it. So it is simply praise and recognition from end to end and in no way an attempt to make an indirect criticism I could not dream of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145507	The questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145508	Thank you. I must then believe what the Minister is saying, but that is not the way it is received and it was even said more than once. I understand what is being said between the lines too. The Minister also said that the payments had started today, on 13 January, and that is what the mink farmers have done on state orders, like a window cleaner, which I mentioned, which cleans windows at the Ministry of Industry's building. Why is it that they have had to wait until 13 January to pay out the money that the right people need to have in order to have done a physical job, had people employed, so carried out a physical work for the state in order to slaughter these millions of minks as soon as possible? On top of that, we can now see that this is contrary to the EU's own payment directive. This is what seems to be the reason why suddenly, on 13 January, the day before the consultation, after 6 weeks of waiting, suddenly these payments can be made. Doesn't the Minister recognize that it seems rather odd?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145618	Well, I understand that the questioner is asking about this and that there is that despair, because I share it. There is now nothing unorthodox about it, and there is no coincidence in it. I have asked the same questions to the FDA and said: How on earth can it be that it takes so long? I've been upset about this, too. It turns out that there are a number of different explanations for this. I have mentioned it with creditors who must have transport in the money; I have mentioned some other things. Now, in relation to fees, it is not an EU issue. There you can avoid paying the money. But there have been some technical things that way around. Another reason I have not mentioned yet is that you have had to make a final estimate of the mink farms concerned before you could pay the money out. There are some places where it has simply not been achieved and where it has not been completed, so you have an overview of what you owe. Yeah, it's embarrassing that it's gonna take so long. I share the questioner's despair about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145715	Thank you to the Minister for Food and Agriculture and Fisheries, and thank you to Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby for today's efforts. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It is for the Minister for Children and Education, and the questioner is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145741	Happy New Year. My question to the Minister is: does the Minister agree that it is essential for the legal certainty of secondary school students in relation to admission to higher education to the higher education system to carry out examinations? The problem is, of course, that we have two decommissionings: first in the spring and now here again, unfortunately. After all, the closure of schools and youth education means that pupils are building up a significant learning gap. And reports from researchers in the sector give a clear picture that all in all it has a great consequence when we go virtually. This is a particular problem for the older years of primary and secondary education. They may find it difficult to make up for lost time before moving on to the education system because they have to go up to the exam this summer, where they are poorly equipped. It is important to avoid the professional backlog, and my question is: is it essential for the legal certainty of high school students that they have completed their exams?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145845	The reasons for the question are not normally available. You read your question, but I allowed mercy, since we are close to New Year's. Then it's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113145858	Thanks for that, and happy New Year, although it's about to be some time ago, but we only see each other virtually. So also a happy New Year here face-to-face. First of all, let me make it clear that we are going to do everything we can to ensure that there is no obstacle whatsoever to further inclusion in the education system. We did the same last year, by the way, together, and of course we will have to do that again this year. I think that is actually important to say, because otherwise you could go and be worried if you were a young person facing the exam. Having said that, there are a number of issues about this. First of all, yes, there is a professional backlog. There are some who have been home, not only during this period when we have been shut down now, but who have also been spotty at home over the past year due to local shutdowns. This is an issue that we must take extremely seriously in terms of closing the professional gaps. We must also take it very seriously in relation to what we do with the exam. Because there is the dilemma, of course, that the young people on the one hand benefit from the training of exams. This applies to both primary and secondary education, and of course also to upper secondary education. They're good for graduating. On the other hand, we should not leave them with a task that cannot be yawned because they have not been taught the lessons they need. In other words, we must ensure that a solution is put in place which somehow balances the two considerations. I have called the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss on Friday what we are doing with the exam situation, just as I am regularly and it is actually over a few months now that has had that discussion bilaterally with teachers and managers, both in primary and in upper secondary education. We tried it last year, and you could say that last year everything was new. Now we have been over it before, which means that I really think that our conditions are better than they were last year. And that's kind of always something. But in relation to the specific question of what is important in relation to their further inclusion: in relation to the person concerned, I actually think I can say that it will have no significance. But it is clear that there is a problem in that they may have some professional gaps which may cause some difficulties in relation to the fact that there were some specific skills they should have brought with them. And the professional gaps, in my opinion, we need to go through with a close comb together with researchers and with all the professional stakeholders who are, that is, what we have of both teacher associations and professional associations and, of course, the municipalities when we talk about the primary school area. We really need to get close to closing the professional gaps. Otherwise, they are lacking some skills in their further progress through the education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150137	However, I have heard the Minister send out some signals that we may already have to cancel some exams, and there is a great deal of uncertainty in the sector, because last year, it can be said, they were held aside for a very long time until a solution was made to how many exams they could get to, and there were, as we both know, a lot of compromises that were made. So, on the basis of where we were last year and where we were like taken with surprise by the corona... now there has been time to plan... I'd like to hear the minister: What's with learning from the spring? And what have the Minister and the government done here to plan for a corona wave 2 that we are now facing, and precisely in relation to the exams for our young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150224	We have a completely different view this year. In this way, it was a crazy spring because we simply had to come up with things as it went out there, which means that we are now in contact with the ministries of education in Europe, simply to hear how they have chosen to do it, both in relation to professional gaps and also in relation to exams. They do things differently. Some people have already chosen to say that all the summer exams have been cancelled, and elsewhere they have actually chosen the reverse and to say that all the summer exams are carried out. The latter is the case, among other things. In England, you've done it, but there you've done it. A fixed curriculum, which means that you can take out such bricks better than we can, at least in relation to the exams in Denmark. So we have chosen to do so in different ways, which means that our preparation is now a completely different one than it was when we were in the same situation last year, and it will also be reflected in Friday's meeting that we are going to have with each other. For just the technical review we will be able to give to the parties of the Folketing is simply on a completely different planet compared to what we stood in the spring and fortunately for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150326	But is what I hear, then, that it is the Minister's aim that we should carry out the exams this summer? I think it is realistic that, on the basis of what we have learned, on the basis of the fact that we are better prepared now, we will be able to carry out the exams.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150343	I'd just love to say yes or no to that. So, first of all, nothing has been reported out yet, in relation to how long the decommissioning is going to last. Right now it applies until Sunday, which means that I do not think that you can answer either yes or no to that question until we know what that a little longer perspective is. In addition, it is incredibly important for me to have the parties' perspectives on this. We have set aside a few hours to discuss this with each other on Friday, and I think that is an important part of the picture. Because we are in different places in relation to the exams across the parties of the Folketing, and therefore there is always an incredibly great use in hearing the different perspectives before starting to settle down. So I think that on this Wednesday it is simply too early to say a clear yes or no. But on the question of whether they come up on completely normal terms, as if there had been no corona at all, I would say: No, of course not. And I don't imagine Conservatives would want them to do that either. Because, of course, it must be taken into account that they have not been able to go through the same subjects as otherwise and that distance learning is something other than class education. Then we have to find our way forward, in terms of how we get balanced, that they need to be trained in going to the exam, and vice versa take into account that it has thus been coronatid, and that means that we have to find some kind of variant between those considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150504	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150506	Now I asked if it was like an objective. You may well have an objective of something that you would like to achieve, as the Minister has just mentioned. Some countries have already announced that they will cancel exams, and some say they will go in and try to let them take as many exams as possible. So I am a little curious to hear: what is like the Minister's ambition?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150528	In fact, an objective is something that I associate with such an ideology, i.e. an ideology. I would really like to ensure that there are fewer children at risk and that more of them come through and get a 9th-grade examination. That is a goal for me. Here we are talking about a global pandemic and crisis management. There is unbelievably little ideology in that, in my opinion, and that is to say, the objective here is to get the most possible children and young people through this in the best possible way. That is the objective of straight forward and that is to say, I hope that we will have as normal a school year as possible. But the pandemic just sets its limits, and that's why the students are home now. But I have never had a goal to send the whole school sector home and not go to school. That would be quite insane, and that means that I normally pay tribute to the fact that we have both grades and exams, and that we are getting a proper conclusion. But it is totally unrealistic when we are in the midst of a global pandemic, just to say that everything has to be as normal. It will not, and it did not last year, and I believe that we will have even better solutions this year. Because now we've done it once before.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150630	Then we move on to question 14 in the same position, namely the Minister for Children and Education and the questioner, Mrs Kathrine Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150637	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150641	My question is linked to the previous question, and that is: what specific initiatives will the Minister take to counteract the professional shortcomings of high school students and to ensure that their exams can be completed this summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150659	We in the Ministry of Children and Education have been working to make for some time the longest gross list we can think of at all about what can be done to close professional gaps, and it is not only in the case of upper secondary education which is specifically asked here. As far as primary school is concerned, too. It's as far as fucking goddamn it. It is with regard to eud and all the other educations that are currently closed down. I have the impression that we, the parties of the Folketing, have to decide together on this. We have the first meeting on Friday in relation to these issues, where we go a little more to the bite to actually find solutions to it, and I look forward to that, I would like to say. I am convinced that parties can help to make the gross list even longer. I have also been asked whether the government will find the economy to close professional gaps, and there I just want to say that the answer is clear: yes, of course. So, the foolishest thing we can do as a society is to say: there have been some professional gaps that do not matter. For young people must have proper, solid education. We enjoy that for the rest of their lifetime. And vice versa: If they do not get proper education, you can actually see it for the rest of their lifetime in the form of a life that is quite different from what it would otherwise have been. It pays off to invest in people, and it does so when we talk about education, both for society, but also, of course, for the individual child and the individual young person, and that is why I look forward to being able to tackle this rather big task together. I myself have delved into some of the reports that have been made. Fortunately, we have gone a little further into the coronatide. The OECD has among other things: dealt with the problem and picked up what various researchers say about how to tackle closing school gaps in relation to corona. So I think we have some more experience to go on, both from other countries, but also because even now we have tried to look at this issue in the spring. But this is a really serious problem, I would also like to say, and this requires us to take a proper approach, and preferably also to land it in as broad an agreement as we can get away with at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150900	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150902	After all, it is very good to hear that the Minister has already been promised that there are also means to close the professional gaps, and then there is a good, clear mandate for the meeting on Friday. After all, we believe that there is now a need for professional aid packages. There have now been financial aid packages, but professional aid packages are needed, because we stand to lose several vintages on the floor if we do not put in now, and that will have long-lasting consequences, as the Minister says. We are completely in line with that. But is it simply part of the Minister's thinking to carry out extra education, in other words to go in and see where those gaps are, and then to make a plan for extra education, for example? On Saturdays, or if you can't go anywhere by week 7, can you spend week 7, that is, winter holidays? Or what's the minister thinking about how we're gonna cover these professional gaps?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113150951-2	None of the things the rapporteur said are already on the gross list. There has been no decision as to what we have to do as a whole. We would have to do that together, so I think the questioner would have been rather insulted if I had just put a finger on something like that and said: we are taking that and that. I think we should do this together, broadly. In the field of education, practically everything needs to be done in very broad conciliation, and I think we should continue with that tradition. What I imagine is that we will have the gross list made longer with the ideas that the questioner and the other rapporteurs could have, and that we will start to look into, that is, area by area, what we do with the schooling, what we do with the intermediate stage, what we do with the schooling, and what do we do with the stxs, the hhxes, the htxes, the euxs, etc. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and for the excellent work done by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I fully agree with what I am listening to the rapporteur's point of view. There is a need for us to go in terms of content to pick up children and young people who, for some, have had a very long time with decommissioning. Moreover, it is unevenly distributed according to the length of time that has been locally closed down. We need to take that task on board, and we will be putting a lot of effort into it together in these winter months.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151107	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151108	Can we then expect the Minister's meeting here on Friday as well as an overall survey to be called a gross list, but I think that this kind of is a mapping of where the professional gaps are and where the biggest challenges that have been due to virtual teaching are, so that you can go in there and say what it takes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151130	No, and that's because you can't map out the professional gaps when we're in the middle of the shutdown. And you could say that we have an incredible amount of experience in relation to what we had in the spring. After all, when I have resorted to international experience, it is because there have been longer periods of decommissioning elsewhere and we can therefore draw on that experience. But you can't map out what the school holes are while we're in it. At present, the restrictions apply until Sunday, and there is a huge difference between what kind of professional gaps we are talking about and whether there will be an extension and, if so, how long it will be. And that's why it's on some stretches the same as in spring, so there are some things we can't uncover. On the other hand, there are a great many other things that we can uncover, and it can be said that right now we can of course welcome the fact that this summer we actually started a study on the first decommissioning, because that means that we will be relatively soon, that is to say. In the course of the next month the results of what the school closure had on Danish soil, in a Danish context, with Danish pupils, with the Danish teacher's stand have been completed. And that will, of course, make our decision-making process incredibly easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151237	The last question to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151238	Yes, we are in the middle of it, but what does the Minister expect in relation to being more at the forefront of development? Surely we must have some kind of scenario planning in relation to decommissioning, as TV 2 News can already see enough continues. Well, what is the Minister planning to do? Because we cannot always stand in the middle of the status quo and then work reactively. After all, we need to see in the future what is of some possible consequences and when we need to have an end date, in terms of whether we should cancel exams or whether we should not cancel exams. Well, I'm a little curious about what the minister is thinking about when it comes to planning this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151317	Well, I could stand here and present process plans, but that was because the questioner asked for a survey of the school holes. We can't do that while we're in it. But of course we can look at what scenarios we're looking into. This is exactly what the Ministry of Education has spent the time since spring making, and that is also why it is a completely different, quite different foundation, in terms of making decisions, both in terms of exams and in terms of school holes. In other words, it is simply because we have tried it before, and that means that there are some lessons we can draw from it. What I imagine is that we spend a few good, solid hours with each other on Friday and get the gross list done as long as possible. And I am convinced that the questioner comes up with many good ideas, as the questioner usually does, in addition to those we have made ourselves from the Ministry, and then we start systematically going into the various areas of education and looking at how to close the school gaps. And then there's no time to make further process reviews here, but I'm looking forward to the meeting on Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151417	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. The question is closed. But the Minister for Children and Education continues to question 15, which has been asked by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151427	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151429	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that an individual assessment should be made of children in the needs of special classes for return and physical attendance at school, respectively, in view of the recent tightening of the Corona restrictions, so that schools have an approach that takes into account the needs of each child?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151450	Thank you for that question. First of all, it is important for me to emphasise that the health authorities have considered that it is health-friendly to keep special offers open. Otherwise they'd be closed, you might say. We would close them if the health authorities said it was not justified. I am particularly pleased that these offers are open. Children generally benefit from being in school, but I would say that this is particularly true when we talk about a great many of the children on special offers, and that is why it has been crucially important to me that it is also my impression that it has been for a great many others that special offers should be open if it is possible at all. It is, of course, because the group contains children and young people who need the daily life of special offers. Others need stability, and some need a breathing space from a bumpy home. Everyone needs education, including all those who do not go on special offers, but in this group there are therefore some particular difficulties. That's why they're in special offers. The current rules and guidelines actually offer the opportunity to take what the rapporteur is asking for, namely individual considerations, and there has been a lot of talk about it here about whether you should send your child away if you really want the child to be at home. To that is the answer, you always have the opportunity to ask the head of the school when there is corona and when there is no corona: Could it be that in the next few weeks we had the child at home and performed the activities you normally do at school from home instead? In the vast majority of cases, both under normal circumstances and under corona, the headmaster will just be able to say: Yes, of course. It is in fact the case that there is a broad framework for assessing this as a head teacher. Will there be cases where they say no? Yes, it will, because it also includes a professional assessment of what is best for the child, and that means that if, for example, you have to. If you have a very bumpy home relationship, it may well be • and that is what a school manager should do • that the school manager says that on the basis of the home relationships that are here, you will have to say that it is not a good idea for the child to be home for the next few weeks. It may also be other circumstances, but it is just to give a concrete example, in which the head of the school must tell the parents, on behalf of the child, that it simply does not work because the task is not properly performed at home. So it is a protection for the child when it comes to a professional to consider whether to have that freedom, but for the vast majority of people it will be unproblematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151722	I fully agree that there are children who have a great need to be able to enter the institution, and that is why we have also defined in broad agreement that this should be possible. It was supposed to be last year, and it must continue to be. That's not where the challenge is at all. The challenge is where we actually have to take advantage of the opportunities that the Minister now mentions to do something else. I suppose I do not reveal too much when I say that yesterday the Minister said that an agreement had been made that we could do this in a more flexible way and perhaps also be able to make it visible. Today, when I try to look up what is actually on the Ministry's website, it says: "Can schools and institutions force students/coursers/participants to receive instruction physically at the school if they are excluded from decommissioning? For those pupils, participants or trainees who are exempted from the closure and therefore have to appear physically at the school or institution, meeting and attendance obligations apply... Failure to attend will have to be recorded as absenteeism. Then I know that there are those opportunities next door, but when you read this as a parent and, by the way, in the system, it is interpreted differently. Many of the e-mails I get are about the fact that they can't get that deal. They don't know how to do it, and they're gonna be afraid that this is possible. Then I can see that yesterday School and Parents wrote out under the heading "Positive with greater flexibility in the field of specialty": New Corona guidelines allow students to stay at home if the headmaster and parents together consider that this is the best thing for the child. It is also in itself what I hear the Minister say now, but then I miss the fact that it is very clearly reported out so that the parents out there have no doubt that there is indeed an opportunity for you to do so, if you say locally that it is best for a child to do so and so. Now I thought that perhaps the Minister would have said that this agreement had been made, and I would have asked where it is on the website, because I really lack some clearer information to support what the Minister is saying here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113151926	I would, of course, like to ensure that there is a link to the rapporteur so that we can find the place where it is on the website. I know that it is there because that is exactly what has been agreed and written. In other words, that wording is available in public so that it can be used, and we must of course do so if we are faced with the challenge of having doubts as to how to deal with it. That is the whole point of writing things down. There have been a lot of things going on today about meeting duties, and there have been a number of parents who have been worried about whether you risk being reported to the municipality by the school if it is the case that your child is at home. There's just the answer: No, not if you've made an appointment with the headmaster. If you have made an agreement with the headmaster, there is no reporting and there is no risk of sanctions and these things that I have also been asked about. So I have answered that very many times to citizens who have come here recently. If there is an agreement with the head of the school, it is not, but if you cannot make an agreement with the head of the school, because the head of the school considers that it is not good for the child to be at home, it is for the protection of the child, and if the parents defy that a professional says that it is simply not good for the child, then you will report it to the municipality, and then there is a risk of sanctions. That is the intention, because it is the whole idea of having that protection for the child. In some parts of the country it is actually almost the reverse problem; there are so many parents asking to be allowed to teach their children from Thailand during the winter period that we have to tighten up the other way because so many are allowed. The reality is that this rule is also used when there is no corona, and it is clear that in the present situation there will be a number of parents who would rather keep their child at home and teach from home. Can you do that? Yes, absolutely, if the leader thinks it's good for the child to be at home. But if the leader doesn't assess it, then it's a protection mechanism for the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152118-2	Now we don't have a normal situation right now, so it's not about some people wanting to take a trip to Thailand and be there for a few months and teach their children themselves. It is about having the corona, that there is an infection, that we send really, very many homes, and we also call on everyone in this house to be at home, so that we do not get more infection than is very necessary. That is why, of course, there are a lot of parents and children who get really worried when they are told that now they just have to show up. That is why I think it is very important that we are very, very clear and I would really like to hear the Minister confirm that what School and Parents are describing here is actually what is in force, which means that there is the flexibility to actually make the right solution out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152203	I can't see from over here what it says, but, as the rapporteur said, I agree with what it says, and School and Parents are among the stakeholders who have been involved in writing both letters and guidelines. So I can't really just say yes to it, even if I can't read it from over here? That flexibility lies there, and I wish it were just because people were going to Thailand and there was no global pandemic. But it's just to stress that the school leaders are incredibly used to handling it and assessing whether it's a good idea for the kids to be at home or not, because you actually do that when there's no corona. So that flexibility is there and the message is actually quite clear: use it then, it is there! And if it is completely uncomplicated, then you must finally use the flexibility options that are available. But there are quite a few homes where children go home to drunk parents or parents who are in a hard divorce or there are some other things, and there is a substantial protection for a child that there is a professional inside and judge that right here it may not be so smart that the child does not have a day-to-day life over at school. So the protection of the child is also incredibly important to me in this context. And the schism between the two considerations is the headmasters used to navigate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152314	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152315	We do not at all disagree that what is central here is the child and the consideration of what is best for the child. And in this particular situation, of course, there is also a family, something contagious and other things that need to be taken into account, so the key thing is that you can actually find the best solution locally in every way. In the ordinary primary school we say: Go home, do emergency lessons, do as well as you can. And it must be the same here if there's a need to do something a little different or a little crooked. It may be that the child does not learn quite as much as it would otherwise, but one gets through the situation in the best way. I should like to send a link to this to the minister, when the minister will now send me his link so that I can find it on the website so that I can forward it to the parents with whom I have contact.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152401	Yeah, we need to exchange links. And I would like to say that it is really my impression that in the school sector there is such a broad sense and a simple assessment of how things can be done. There are a number of special schools where you sit in very small rooms, so even though it is really health-friendly, you still think it is unpleasant, and there are a number of places where you grab the bone and call the municipality and jokes: Can't we borrow the nearby primary school, because their classrooms are bigger, so we would think it was really nice if we could teach there for a while instead. So although the other health is actually fine, I think that we should finally use the flexibility and creativity needed to create the solutions if that is what creates security when you go to work or go to school. And, of course, I also think, if it is reasonable for the children to be at home with their parents, that you as head teacher should use that opportunity if the parents so request.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152458	Time goes faster than you think. Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for the question and thanks to the Minister for Children and Education. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 16, and that is for the Minister for Employment, and the questioner is also Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152517	Thank you. What will the Minister do to ensure that those who have been employed in the mink industry and are now without work are given the right to continuing training, including the guarantee of wages under the adult apprentice scheme, whether they are unskilled or skilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152531	Thank you for the question. I agree with Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl said that when a crisis hits and people are hit by unemployment, education is by far the most important answer we have, and that is why massive upgrading must also be done in such a situation, not least with such a serious economic blow that we are facing right now with the corona crisis, and we have fortunately done so. Over the last eight months, more than 1.4 billion have been allocated. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Unskilled and skilled workers with outdated training have been given the right to take skilled training in areas with good job opportunities to 110%. daily subsistence allowance. That is, for example, the case. Sosu assistants or a number of green jobs that can count there. In 2021, all unemployed persons have the right to take a short job-oriented course from their first day of unemployment. This allows much more quickly and flexibly to adapt to new work and perhaps also new industries. We have also strengthened the adult apprentice scheme so that more can become adult apprentices with grants until the end of this year. The adult apprentice system is a very good system for upgrading unskilled workers. The changes we made in the spring mean that skilled and employed skilled workers with outdated training also have additional opportunities this year to start up skills to the skilled level. It can, for example, be done. be former employees of the mink industry as well. We have also launched several other initiatives aimed at former employees in the mink industry. This means that this group is both embraced by the large, broad training effort under Corona, but that there are, of course, also determinedly targeted initiatives aimed at this industry in this tough situation. The Finance Act established a special warning pool for industries in difficulty. With the pool, early and targeted efforts can be made for abandoned employees and owners in connection with the complete or partial decommissioning of small enterprises in the corona affected industries, including in particular the mink industry. We have also strengthened regional industry cooperation in North Jutland, which helps to ensure a rapid and business-oriented conversion of the workforce. It is absolutely essential that we can quickly and flexibly take action with targeted qualification. It not only helps the individual, which may be important enough in itself, but it also boosts the economy and takes care of our labour market. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152802	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152803	I have heard from a Peter who, for 11 years, has been working as a trained farmer with mink, to develop mink feed in order to improve the quality of fur. His workplace is now closed, his profession is de facto abolished in Denmark. Peter wants to be an electrician, and he is 34 years old, so he says that he has about 35 years left on the labour market. He has four children and is a place in life where going back to regular education on the benefits you get there is not really realistic, and it is in principle for such people as he created the adult apprenticeship scheme. But even if his profession is out of date in practice because the mink industry is now out of date in Denmark, he would not be able to count on the rules. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether we could not agree to define his profession as obsolete and thus give him the opportunity to come up with the adult apprenticeship system that is so that he can actually get into electrical engineering and not have to wait years for his education to become really obsolete, with the terminology that is today and with the rules that are now becoming obsolete.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113152929	Thank you for the question, and also thank you for bringing some of these people right into the Assembly Hall. I have them myself, where I come from, really close. I have also had a dialogue during some of the most difficult times in recent weeks and months with people affected by this situation. I know them as industrious, hard-working people who really want to take care of themselves, and that is why it is of course also a political responsibility to ensure that there is a framework where you actually have the opportunity to move to a place where there is also a foundation for precisely that, and that is why education is part of the answer for some of these groups. I don't want to go into individual cases like this with Peter, who is the father of four, but as a general consideration, yes, it is so clear to the government that education is part of the answer, and we also have a great understanding that one can be in a situation in life where it is not profitable to go back to the su and on the school bench in that form, but where there is something else to do, and therefore these tools are also in play.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153038	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153039	I understand that we are not going to stand here and deal with individual cases. Of course we should not, but we have a profession which has disappeared over a few months and we have a whole lot of people who have been employed in that profession. Can we not then agree that the profession is outdated, that the skills needed to get jobs there are actually obsolete, because they cannot be used in Denmark today, and if we can therefore define having been in that profession as outdated, then we will also be able to get into the adult apprenticeship scheme in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153117	I think that everything we can discuss at all by safety net and helping hands in relation to both this industry and everyone else who loses work in the light of corona is appropriate to discuss. I am very pleased about this and now I am only privileged to be a temporary worker that I stand in some shoes by an employment minister and a rapporteur who has actually taken responsibility for this with training money for over 1.4 billion. kr. extra to this exact area over the last 8 months. I would hate to say that agriculture is out of date in Denmark, because I certainly do not think it is. Fortunately, we still have a very strong, very large and very skilled agriculture in Denmark on some very wide stretches. But, of course, there is something special about the mink business. This is also already reflected in some of these efforts, and I very much share the ambition that education is the answer for many of these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153212	The last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153213	Yes, I know that the Minister knows a great deal about education and the importance of education, and that is why, of course, I have a clear assurance that the Minister understands the need here, and what this is all about is not saying that agriculture is out of date, because it is certainly not. But if you have spent 10 years specializing in a direction where the basis for getting jobs with everything you can is gone, would you rather go out and work in a factory? Or should we instead have the opportunity, through the adult apprenticeship scheme, to get that electrician training, something that we also desperately need? So can we not agree that this is what we need to work on and ensure that they have that opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153255	After all, the value of education is something on which the rapporteur and I share knowledge, because we are usually here in other contexts, but with another ministerial cap. So, yes, to a large extent investing in people in a time of crisis, wanting education, looking at how we are moving people from a situation that may seem quite desperate to many, crucial, and therefore all good ideas are also welcome, in terms of how we actually deal with the difficult situation that many of these people are facing. It's already on the table how we can target these bets to those industries where there's an extraordinary shortage of labour. It is also already on the table how we can have a separate eye for precisely the people affected in the mink industry, and there is also, as I said, a very good start in the training effort for almost 1.5 billion. kr. Just in the last eight months.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153349	Thank you very much to the deputy from the Ministry of Employment and to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for today's efforts. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 17, which is for the Minister for Housing, and the questioner is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153406	Thank you for that, President. The first question is: Does the Minister believe that it is appropriate and appropriate that the requirement for certified consultants on construction projects should be imposed on both private citizens and companies, because of towering charges, to give up projects that would otherwise contribute to both development and maintenance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153425-2	Thank you very much for the question. There is no doubt that the certification scheme for fire counsellors and staticians has been a major change for construction, where both advisors and municipalities have had to get used to new roles in technical construction treatment. The number of certified advisers is constantly increasing and there has been support for the scheme, but I am aware that there have been a number of major start-up difficulties as well. The Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority has thus launched a number of initiatives, including: contribute to ensuring that the industry becomes more familiar with the application of the scheme. It is my expectation that the Board, in cooperation with relevant parties, will find an appropriate level of documentation and control, it reconciles considerations of high safety and administrative burdens. The aim of the certification scheme is to see more uniform compliance with the technical regulations on fire and construction across municipalities, and this will benefit both citizens and businesses in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153537	Then the question is how far that aim is. On Denmark's Radio you could read back on December 23 last year about a company in Aalborg that actually makes a living building balconies and setting up balconies. After all, the company is experiencing several projects which are simply being put on standby or which, for that matter, are being completely dropped because the end price simply makes it too expensive. This means that it just doesn't pay to continue putting up these balconies because certification makes the price too high. One of the things I have experienced in recent months is that more and more people have approached me. They are extremely concerned, especially when they are also told what it really costs for them to put things in place. I am thinking: does the Minister not plan to take any initiatives to change that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153639	Yes, I do, but I also think it is important to make it clear that when it comes to the fact that the municipalities are handling cases, it is in many ways like a mirrored egg that cannot be regretted because many of the municipalities that had the skills in the technical administration do not have them anymore because most employees now work elsewhere. So it's not just an option to turn it around or postpone it. After all, we did so at the request of Mrs Anni Matthiesen just over a year ago, when we launched this by a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153738	When I talk to these people who have approached me, some of what goes back when they say that the demands now made are more or less the same, regardless of whether they are relatively small construction projects or huge construction projects. They say that they can understand that there must of course be some pretty restrictive requirements, including fire safety, if you build a super hospital, but where they wonder, is that relatively simple construction is also being burdened in this way, and that there are such large bills coming up I can, as an example, mention a round arch hall for some cattle and then they are shaken. Does the Minister not agree that there should be some kind of differentiation in relation to the size of the building which must be approved?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153841	Yes, I agree with that, and I think it is already in this system, that there are different requirements depending on how large the construction is and how advanced they are. But it may well be that we have not hit it right, as it is, it is a common agreement between the Social Democratic Party, the Left and a number of other parties. I am also surprised that five years ago, when the Association of Consultative Engineers, and who else were advisory trade organizations, said that it was almost not only going too fast to put this scheme in place, so after five years still too few. And it's not like thousands are going to be spent. Our assessment is that 250 staticians and 250 fire counsellors are needed, and the industry has not succeeded in doing so in the last five years, despite the fact that it was very busy getting this in place. I think it is a good idea that there is such a long way to go on such a system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153936	That brings us to the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113153937	Yes, and I must also say that those who approach me say that this is a matter of urgency because it simply puts things at a standstill. That is why I would like to ask the Minister in the end: does the Minister intend to try to put forward some solutions that we could discuss across the parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154002	In any case, I have a concrete plan to have a meeting with the Left, among others. The questioner and the rapporteur for the housing of the Left and perhaps others who might also be interested in it, and there we have to try to review what is possible here and then, of course, include who else might be interested in it. For it is clear that it is not the intention to pay very large sums in order to be able to do relatively simple construction work, nor has it ever been the idea of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154031	Then we move on to Question 18. It is also for the Minister for Housing, and the questioner is also Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154038	Does the Minister consider that it is appropriate and appropriate that the requirement for certified advice, according to BR18, contributes to tightening the ground for growth and development in small towns and rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154051	Thank you for the question. As I mentioned before, the certification scheme for fire counsellors and staticians has been a major change for the building partners. The reason for the abolition of technical construction treatment in the municipalities was overall that the technical requirements are complex and were administered very differently. In practice, this could mean that one solution approved in one municipality was rejected in the other municipality and this made it difficult for companies to develop standardised and cheap solutions. At the same time, a developer could experience that new innovative solutions and construction methods were limited because there were insufficient technical skills in the municipalities. In this context, the certification scheme aims to ensure uniform compliance with fire and construction requirements across all municipalities and that the same building is equally safe, regardless of where it is located in the country. It is my expectation that, despite the current transitional difficulties, the certification scheme will eventually lead to more uniform compliance with the technical regulations on fire and construction across municipalities, and this will benefit both citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154157	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154158	Thank you. Then I can almost say that it may well be that a more uniform procedure and construction advice will be achieved, but if it is on the basis of the fact that there are simply too many people giving up and that fewer people are really getting started, then I think that is problematic. The reason why I am asking this question is also that, as I hear it, there is a danger of a distortion between the largest cities and then the rural areas, and I can take an example from Aabenraa. You have bought a closed store, you want it divided into two apartments, and you get a bill of DKK 70,000. per apartment to get the fire approved. Then perhaps there is only one person to pay this extra cost, and that is the tenant, and there will be people in both Tønder and perhaps Aabenraa who simply say that it will be too expensive for them to rent here, the cost is too high, and it is clear that it is both related to the price level and the difference that is from the largest cities to the smallest cities. In fact, I would like to hear from the Minister whether he does not agree that in this way there can actually be a distortion between the country and the city.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154322	Indeed, I fully agree with that, and I fully share the concern raised by the questioner. I can get nervous with such an example from Aabenraa. If it is a small apartment, it may turn out to be a very large part of the total value of the apartment, which must go to certify it, and now we are not even talking about a carpenter, a bricklayer, a painter, or who else can fix something like that, but we are only talking about the very thing of dividing it up. So it will, of course, hamper positive development. I totally agree with that, and I think this is extremely important when we make national demands. I think it was right to do this, because there are also some people and they may not be hearing so much from us at the moment, who are building things across municipalities that may be building the same building in 20 different municipalities. For them, it's gotten a lot easier now. But it is clear that it must not be the case that you have to have housing prices that are equal to what is in Copenhagen or Aarhus and other cities, before it makes sense at all to set off a renovation or division or conversion, or whatever it is you have to do, and I may be worried about that. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154435	Let's try to think a little loud here. I am not saying that this is what we need to find as a solution. However, one could imagine that in some way one also looks into the area which I was also a little about before there are some minor constructions that might not even be used for people, but perhaps for machines etc., so that is where one has to look, and whether one could set a ceiling, namely that when a building was over one or other number of millions of kroner, it took something more than if one has construction projects that are under 10 or 15 million. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154516	I think it's hard to set an amount as a limit in relation to the building regulations. It is based on what is called the functional requirement. This means that the building regulations do not care what materials are used or what they cost. What matters is what function that building has. An arrangement was made a few years ago which was avoided, among other things. carports and others I don't remember what the wording was • less advanced constructions. It may well be the way. I think we need to get together, and then we need to figure out where to do it the easiest. And then we just have to remember it when we are now negotiating elsewhere where there must be certified advisors, so that you do not make any demands that the industry cannot pay. Because in this case, it certainly doesn't seem like the industry was aware of how big a job it would be. After all, they rushed it, despite the fact that five years later they are not ready for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154606	The questioner with his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154607	I just want to end by saying that I look forward to meeting and discussing this further. I know that there are several people in the Left who are also concerned about this because they simply get a lot of inquiries from their hinterland. I have to say that we have both been involved in this, and, as the Minister also says, it has taken five years. And then it really upsets me that you haven't gotten off to a better start. I therefore believe that there is something we need to look at and possibly adjust, and I hope that the Minister will also take part in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154642	Well, of course, and I look forward to meeting with the Left on this matter as well. I think it is extremely important that we do not make legislation that does not work. There may have been many good intentions behind it when it was made five years ago, but if it doesn't work out in reality, then we shouldn't be too proud to be able to sit together and then find something that can be connected for people in the building. So we'll find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154704	Thank you, Mrs Matthiesen, and thank you to the Minister for Housing for today's work. That concludes Question Time and we shall move on to the next item.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154717	The debate is now open and the first to speak is Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party. I want her to be warmly welcomed to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154756	Thank you for that. You have to get up here properly and get past your colleagues from a safe distance. This particular bill is a very good bill. This gives the possibility that eggs will not be destroyed once they have been taken after a medical course can be started. I think this is evidence of the fact that when you have a good discussion and a good breadth, you can really get along in democratic processes. At a time when the rest of the country is really under pressure, I think it is a good thing that people in Denmark also know that when it comes to the future of women, we can stand together shoulder to shoulder. So thank you very much to the Minister and to my fellow rapporteurs and, of course, to all the women and men who have the opportunity to take advantage of this. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154922	There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113154935	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for once again having the opportunity to celebrate the broad agreement we reached in October last year on the lifting of the five-year limit for the storage of human eggs frozen in connection with fertility treatment and/or disease. We in the Left, of course, support the proposal, which is the implementation of that agreement. Unfortunately, we became a little aware of that too late. I would therefore like to express my greatest thanks to those women who have helped to draw our attention to this. The fact that action is taking place now is largely because of you, the initiators and supporters of the citizens' proposal. Bravely, you have shared your heartbreaking personal stories and established that the fertility treatment has not been optimally designed up to today. We have heard that the time limit resulted in women and couples being treated reluctantly and without medical evidence having their eggs destroyed healthy and healthy after five years. Research in this field today also indicates that it is primarily the freezing and thawing itself which poses a risk to the fertilised eggs and the unfertilised egg cells, while the storage itself does not play a role. The five-year rule made no sense, and obviously it had to be changed, and it could only go too slowly. But the fight against involuntary infertility does not stop here. In the Left we see it as one of the greatest social challenges of our time. More and more Danes find it difficult to have children, and every 10 children today is conceived in a clinical way. This is due both to the fact that men's sperm quality has been decreasing for many years, but also to a high degree, that many choose to have children later in life. The average age for first-time feeding women was 29.5 years in 2019. So this is a deeply worrying development, not only for society, but also for the women and couples affected, which this is affecting. I believe that anyone who has been through a long course of fertility treatment can sign that it is not at all fun or pleasant. In addition to the physical stresses, which in the worst case can lead to infertility, involuntary infertility can push the psyche hard on both sides. Feelings of grief, isolation, anxiety and major crises in the relationship are included. That is why I want a future where such a course is only necessary for the few. To reverse the trend, we need to use more tools in the toolbox. It's not just about using the screwdriver that improves the treatment itself, which is what we are doing today with this bill, but it's very much about preventing. It may be that many people think it is cross-border to talk about, but the claim about the biological clock must be taken seriously. Too much of the Danes have a limited knowledge of the risk factors in relation to reduced fertility. We're gonna have to change that, too. And we in the Left would like to make a greater effort to ensure that more people can make informed choices about their health in order to promote fertility and avoid infertility. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155310	There is a brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155311	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I fully agree that the proposal we are adopting here today is very good because we are getting rid of a fundamental inequality in the system, namely the age limit of five years. However, I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that it is problematic that we should introduce a new inequality with this legislation, namely that eggs cannot be stored if they are taken for non-medical reasons. Because it is a motive research in women, in relation to why eggs are being taken, for which there is no medical justification. Is that not a matter of concern to the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155355	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund for the question. That, sir. Peder Hvelplund mentions, after all, is social freezing, and on behalf of the Left I said earlier that it is not as such something that we are opposed to. It may well be that in the longer term we are going to have a new discussion about this and that in the longer term we are going to look at things differently, so it is vitally important for me to say that I would actually like to address the root of this. In fact, I would like to address the fact that there are some women and couples who, after 8-10 years of long history, with great consequences for couples, for associations, for working life nevertheless end up with infertility. That's where I'd like to go. And then, sir... After all, Peder Hvelplund is addressing some other issues. I would actually rather get to grips with the root, because there are women and couples, including those we would think were well-informed and well-educated and all those things that still make some decisions that have fatal consequences for their future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155456	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155457	But I just don't understand why one excludes the other. Well, all women can stand in that dilemma for whatever reasons they choose to have eggs taken. There may be many reasons why you do this, and I just find it hard to understand why we have to go in and do some motive research in relation to why they choose it. Why not give them that freedom and then do everything else at the same time? I fully agree with the rapporteur on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155520	One does not rule out the other. I'm just saying that what I want to focus on, where I want to focus, is on prevention, because I think that is so crucial. It doesn't help, does it? Peder Hvelplund and myself are here 10 years after a couple has been through a long fertility course that has had major consequences for this couple or this woman, and yet you never end up having the child you dream of and so desperately want. Well, there are big ethical issues in this, and I just want to say that where I put my focus is right now and here, that we made this law and that we get this law through today. I think it is extremely good and it is a step in the right direction. Then we can evaluate on it later, but the focus right now for me is to look at the prevention and, by the way, to clap in my little hands that this bill will come through today. For that is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155613	Thank you very much to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155639	Thank you. First of all, thank you to those who made the citizens' proposal, because it allowed us to debate this. I would also like to thank the Minister for inviting the parties of the Folketing to take part in the discussion and for the fact that we had an agreement with the country. Well, we have to celebrate the things we agree on. It's not that often. But in this area we agreed, and here we stand with the bill, which the Danish People's Party fully supports. I also think it is very good, and we fully support this matter being dealt with urgently, so that we ensure that the eggs which would otherwise be destroyed but which are now suspended until 1 February are still there, so that we can get there before that. I've had contact with a lot of women who say my eggs will be destroyed if we don't get something done now. That is why we fully support the draft law. Now we have discussed social freezing, and I can also see that Mr. Peder Hvelplund has pressed in and will probably ask about it. But in the Danish People's Party we are not in favour of freezing eggs or making ourselves sick for pleasure; it must be out of need. We must be careful not to create an artificial society in which we force people to say: I am waiting. Because we also know that in terms of fertility it is not the egg that decides whether or not to have the baby. It's your fertility. Your body gets older, even if the egg stays well. So we are against social freezing, and that is why we welcome the agreement that is in place, and that is why we fully support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155835	Thank you for that and there is a brief comment. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155837	Thank you. It is actually to that remark that there are some who choose to do it out of light. That is not my view. I would therefore like to know what the rapporteur is basing this statement on. Because when we look at what both the Ethical Council recommends; when we see what international research shows; when we look at what the experience is from other countries, it is not something we just do for pleasure, because it is not uncomplicated to get eggs out and freeze them down. There is no guarantee of success. It is a rather serious and complicated process to have to go through where you pay a huge cost both physically, mentally and humanly. So what is the rapporteur basing that statement on, that is to say, that it is something you just do out of desire?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113155917	I'd like to say to Mr. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Women do everything by themselves to look younger to be in the day and the way, to secure a career, to secure everything. Well, it's not free to make new breasts or facelifts or all sorts of other things. And a company can offer them a very good job that they want, and from the company you can say that we'll freeze your eggs if you stay here. And we know from other countries that large companies do. Then you put pressure on some women to say that of course I want this job, and then I freeze my eggs too. Now let's try not to get so fake. There's a nature that matters, and that's what we stick to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160002	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160003	So I think that was a fairly gross downgrading of the women who are in this situation and the couples who are exposed to this. Because it's not like it's just something you do because you want to look better or something else. I fully agree that if there are structures in relation to the fact that labour market pressures can be exerted, then we must tackle it. But what is the reason for choosing here to make an inequality in relation to some women in terms of their background in order to choose to take out their eggs? I simply do not understand that. That is also what the Ethical Council says, that is, there is no justification for it, nor is there any medical justification for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160040-2	Let us be careful: it is not the whole of the Ethical Council that thinks the same thing. There are several different views on this. The rapporteur asks about the position of the Danish People's Party. I've explained it to you. We're making an increasingly artificial society. It is artificial to say that as a healthy 20-year-old woman, you get frozen eggs because you then, if you might get sick or something else, have some eggs. It is too artificial and we do not like it, and that is the reason for it. It has nothing to do with inequality. We have a health service that is there for the sick and not for the healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160107	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen. There are many new habits that we need to incorporate into this Chamber, among others. Cleaning up our mess. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160128	Thank you very much. After all, we had a good debate a month ago on the citizens' proposal that put this issue on the agenda, and in view of that, it is a good thing that we now have to deal first with the legislative proposal that meets at least part of this citizens' proposal. I can understand how important it is for the couples who are struggling with infertility that they also have to struggle with a little arbitrary time limit, because the area has been marked by a curious distinction between male and female germs. Taking out eggs for fertility treatment is not a simple procedure. That is why they must, of course, be kept as long as possible, as long as they are safe in the health sector, and it is therefore very good that we should now abolish the limit of five years and instead allow retention to depend on the age of the woman. And since fertility treatment is available in Denmark until the age of 46, it is a natural limit to set. It is gratifying that this avoids the destruction of eggs which can easily be used. As my fellow rapporteur has already pointed out, the draft law deals only with the eggs taken on medical grounds. In the Radical Left we agree with this first priority, but we are open to looking at whether further changes need to be made. This will require a remembrance of the needs, costs and, above all, the ethical dilemmas that have already been raised here from the platform in the past. But we're just gonna have to take that debate. In any case, we in the Radical Left support the bill. I would also like to welcome my colleague from the SF, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, and say that they also support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160304	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160307	Thank you for that and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I am delighted to hear the positive comments as regards the fact that we can look at this afterwards. Therefore, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur also agrees with the principle that it is strange why there is a gender inequality in legislation, because we do not ask men why they want to freeze their sperm, but we do so in relation to women. Men can then even be allowed to bequeath it further. Well, the male body secretion is obviously of greater value than the woman's eggs are. But does the rapporteur agree that there is an inequality of principle there that we should have looked at?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160348	Thank you for the question. Yeah, I totally agree. That is also what I touched on very briefly in my rapporteur's speech, in other words that one has this rather curious distinction between male and female germs, which makes little sense in professional terms. There are also certain dilemmas here: I heard my colleague Mrs Liselott Blixt say that, and I also heard Mr Liselott Blixt say that. Peder Hvelplund recognizes that we should take seriously. But yes, there is a bias that I think we should have done something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160410	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The Socialist People's Party's rapporteur has welcomed this and we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. And in the meantime, there's gonna be a little booze on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160435	First of all, I would like to say that we support the draft law, and we are also pleased that it is coming, and it also gives us cause to thank the proposers of the citizens' proposal, which is also the reason for us to have this debate here today. We think it is very good that we are now getting the current five-year limit for freezing eggs in connection with fertility treatment and disease lifted. But there is a large but the law applies only to eggs taken out in connection with fertility treatment or in medical terms, and that is by no means all eggs. In the Enhedslisten we do not think there is any reason to have a 5-year limit for freezing any eggs. This is an important and fundamental matter in which we should not make a knotted legal distinction between gender or the reasons why the eggs have been removed. We are therefore going to table an amendment to extend the system so that it applies to all eggs on an equal footing with all sperm. The draft law raises an absolutely central and very important issue of equality in the law. Men today can have their sperm frozen for as long as they like, and for exactly the reasons they now have. They can even test the sperm so it can stay on frost after their death. No questions are asked as to why men freeze their sperm, nor do we in the Enhedslist think that should be done in relation to women. We believe that this is not legally binding, and we believe that instead of this new legislative proposal, we should seize the opportunity to avoid gender inequality in the law. Women who have frozen their eggs for whatever reason should not have them thrown out after an arbitrary storage period. It can be women in all sorts of different life situations such as: Majbrit's story, which I've been allowed to share. She had eggs taken out when she was 36 when she was thinking about becoming a solo mother. Then she got cold feet, met a few months after a man with whom she became a boyfriend and became pregnant without the need for fertility treatment. She then has 15 eggs on the freeze, but which had an expiration date left in December. If she and her boyfriend decide to have child number two and either cannot get pregnant themselves or want to use the eggs she has on the freeze, then it is not possible to do so, as the eggs must be thrown out healthy and healthy eggs. Well, that seems preposterous. There may be plenty of reasons and life situations that make eggs frozen without medical indication, all of which we should not interfere with or wise ourselves on. We think the bill is a good one, but we think that we should leave out the call on medical notice. Of course, this should be followed up with information for all the women who freeze eggs down. No one should go and think that it is super simple and that one is guaranteed a pregnancy with eggs on freezes, but it should be a decision that lies with the individual, not an impervious and unequal legal position between the sexes. There is no contradiction between voting in favour of the amendment we in the Enhedslisten and then having a major discussion on fertility and fertility treatment. In the Enhedslisten we would like to look at the whole area of fertility treatment. This is an area in which user charges take up a lot and where many women and couples have long, grueling and hard courses and where there is great inequality and commercial interests. This should not be the case and we would like to discuss what can be done in relation to maternity rules, study and career life, performance culture, normative expectations of young people, etc. to meet the difficult situations that many women and couples face when they cannot get pregnant themselves. But as I said, the Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160836	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113160910	Thank you for that, President. After all, all births are welcome, and one can say on this proposal that it might have been born sooner and thus been adopted sooner, because it is very good to remove the disadvantage of destroying the eggs from the women who have been undergoing fertility treatment. It is, of course, a great burden for the individual woman, but also for the families, to be in a course of fertility, and when you have finally taken out some eggs, there is no reason for you to go through it again. So it is a very good proposal that we are dealing with here, and we fully support in the Conservative People's Party that families should not be put under the pressure of going through a course of fertility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161018	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161030	Thank you. After all, this is a bill that expires on an agreement that has broad support. I also think it is very positive and, of course, we also support it. I myself know a number of people who have been in very grueling fertility treatments, who have really cost a lot of money in the family account. So I think it is only gratifying that this proposal is coming now and we support it, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161105	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we are through the series of rapporteurs, at least those who are present, so now it is the Minister for Health and the elderly to round off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161124	Thank you very much for that and thank you for your comments and, above all, thank you for your cooperation in concluding the political agreement that we are implementing here. This is one of the legislative proposals that we are dealing with despite the epidemic, which has meant that a number of legislative proposals were paused. This could not be paused for the moment that we have a deadline for the frozen eggs which would then have to be destroyed. There we would therefore find ourselves in a situation where those women who have been through hard and hard fertility treatment with eggs would have to undergo the same treatment once more with the risk and the burden that it would entail for the individual. That is why I am very, very pleased that the Danish Parliament is in agreement that we are dealing with this bill. Better late than never, one can say · and many of the rapporteurs were talking about the same thing, but I think it is one of the proposals on which, if you look at this debate in a while, you say: why was it not until 2021 that this totally unfounded ceiling, this 5-year limit, was removed? That is why I should like to express my sincere thanks to the women who have taken the lead and to all those who have signed the citizens' proposal, who have seen it in almost identical, but not entirely identical, form, become law. It is not entirely identical for that reason that only those eggs are involved, and it is the majority that are taken out in medical terms, i.e. in connection with fertility treatment or serious illness. So that only applies to them. This does not apply to those who are taken out in connection with what is called social freezing, and there is a reason for this. The reason for this is that the country's leading fertility expert, who has also been on the committee in the Folketing and explained the situation and also explained it to the rapporteurs at ministerial meetings, has said directly that it would be doing people a disservice if such a provision were introduced. So even if it could be on the flat hand just to do so, we also need to take on board the experts' recommendations. There are different legislations on exactly this subject in different countries and I think it is quite appropriate that we follow it very, very closely and pick up experience on an ongoing basis as to whether it makes sense to do something. Whatever happens, we in the Danish Parliament will have a sharper focus on the fertility problem, for it is for the individual a very, very hard and defining period in life if you struggle to have children and cannot have it for one reason, the other or the third. For Danish society, it is also an issue that needs to be addressed. Those countries that fail to address it and where there are cultures, structures, economic things and other things that cause fertility to suddenly fall too sharply have huge problems. These are economic problems, but of course also social and human problems. We are not going there in Denmark, which is why it is important that we constantly focus on it. With this proposal, we are at least going some way along the way and getting something done that might have been done a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161459	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161502	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I agree, of course, that this is not easy. And, of course, we shouldn't poke people in the eye. Of course, we shouldn't, whether for medical reasons or not for medical reasons. Because then people have to be informed about what kind of process you have to go through. And I would just like to ask the Minister in relation to the example that I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, that is to say the example of Majbrit, who has taken out eggs and who now has those eggs and who may need them, but where those eggs will now be destroyed. What's Majbritt doing wrong with this? Why is it that you have to say: then you have to go through a new process and get eggs out again when there are some good eggs that can be used now and that have even been taken out five years earlier? Well, why is it that it's wrong? And why shouldn't Majbrit have the opportunity to use those eggs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161558	I understand the situation that Majbrit is in here, and I understand her burning desire as well. But when you raise this issue with our fertility experts, we are told by them that the situation is that if you introduce it, you can risk and therefore they call it a disservice that there is more or less direct pressure on women in relation to introducing this social freezing, which can do so in the expectation that you can have children a little later when you have the economy and the job and the family and everything else to it. The fact is that it is not possible because, as several rapporteurs also mentioned, the body must also be able to accept the eggs and also be fertile. And that is why we risk giving them a false hope and creating a structure which means that there are many women who will find themselves in an unhappy situation where they have done what they really should, but where they cannot do so. And we should try to avoid that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161701	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161702	But I just find it hard to see what the minister is building that assumption on. Because I understand that this is a message that has been delivered. But if you look at both the research and look at it in relation to the countries where this has been introduced, then we have not seen that pressure. And I also find it a little difficult to understand the conversations I have had with the women who have been in this situation, what it is that should be done, that as a very young person one should be of the opinion that now we are just freezing some eggs down. Because it's a complicated process; it's not something you just do. So what exactly is the Minister building that assumption on? Because I do not see it, either in relation to the talks I have had, nor in relation to the research results that lie there, nor to the experience that has been gained from other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161743	However, as I said, I will continue to follow this very, very closely and also collect experiences from other countries and, of course, also follow research very, very closely. But what I am building it on is that our leading fertility experts have really raised a flag with us here, and I think we are forced to listen to that, but we are not, of course, forced to observe everything they say minutely. Of course, we must also constantly qualify their messages for us and get them nuanced. But there is a very clear signal and message from our experts to the whole Folketing, and that is: Be careful with this, because it may be a disservice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161823	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161835	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113161857	Thank you. This proposal is a proposal that, before the end of this parliamentary year, the government should introduce a requirement to obtain public criminal records when recruiting staff in the care and care sector for both private and public employers. The proposal, with some additions, is the re-submission of a motion for a resolution which we have dealt with here in Parliament before the summer recess last year. First of all, I would like to make it clear that I fully agree with the proposers that the citizens who receive help in the care of the elderly must always be able to trust the staff who come to their homes. I can only support the fact that we must ensure that citizens who depend on the help of others in their everyday lives are able to be quite confident about the staff who come with them. I also agree with the proposers that obtaining a criminal record alone, of course, is a snapshot of a person's past. The criminal records are, of course, by their very nature backwards and will therefore only prevent the recruitment of persons who have committed criminal acts in the past. After all, we must also be careful that obtaining criminal records should not create a false security that everything is then just fine. And it is important, no matter what, to hire the right employees in the care of the elderly. There are a number of ways of ensuring this today. It is absolutely essential that responsible and thorough recruitment procedures are carried out in connection with recruitment in the care of the elderly in order to determine whether it is the right person with the right skills for the job. Things that are important to stress in this context include: a thorough interview with employees and opinions and references from previous employers. If, in the specific employment situation, you consider that you may need it and this applies to both public and private employers in the care of the elderly, you can already obtain a criminal record. Public employers in the care of the elderly have had this opportunity since 2019. It should also be mentioned that we are following developments in the specialized social field, where it has been a duty for over six months. This is the system which is being proposed here to continue with care for the elderly, but there is therefore only six months of experience. I think we should follow it a little longer in order to draw some lessons from that method. Nor should we forget that we should not just focus on the employment situation. The care of the elderly must be a continuous work to ensure that the individual weakened elderly receive good and caring care, and it is the management that has the central responsibility here. It is a visible management that shows the way, gets the right values spread, ensures supervision, and, above all, ensures that employees have and maintain the right skills. And I am talking both about the very professional, but of course also about the more value-based, the more human skills; because in a culture where things go wrong, it is both professionalism and human values that suffer shipwreck. That is why management must constantly show a great deal of attention and react, yes, for example. of changes in the behaviour of the citizen or of other employees or of enquiries by the relatives. It is not the case that you can do something from in here, where you can protect yourself from stumbled vessels in some industries, and this also applies, of course, in the care of the elderly. However, we must constantly look at whether there is a need for better and more tools to support the recruitment of the right staff in the care of the elderly and that those who are right at the time of recruitment are still the right people with the really good values and good professionalism, also after years of employment. As stated just before Christmas, on 19 December, when we had the discussion of two other motions for resolutions, we must ensure that employees in the care of the elderly have the right professional and human skills. And we also need to clarify all the possible solutions. A working group will therefore be set up to look at possible solutions to how to get tools in the care of the elderly to support that these stray vessels do not get work in this area. Among other things, you have to... Take a look at the advantages and possible disadvantages of a possible licensing system for social and health workers, and also examine whether there are employment opportunities that can support the fact that storned vessels are not employed in the care of the elderly. It would be quite natural in this work to look at the introduction of requirements for obtaining public criminal records when employing both private and public employers. It would be quite natural that the working group should also look at it and see what experience has been gained in the places where it has been done, both in the care of the elderly, where it has been done on a voluntary basis, and in the places in other sectors where it has been introduced. In addition, as part of the political follow-up to the Older People's Summit, I would like to mention that we will be discussing together proposals for action in the area of older people, which will help to raise the area more generally, including preventing unwanted workers from being employed in the care of the elderly. And there we are open to all good suggestions, and we have a collaboration with the Elders Case, with FOA and with KL as employers exactly about this. I would also like to make it clear that it is not the case that there is a single handle in this Chamber that we can just screw up, and then the problems are solved. This is a long and tough move which also requires a willingness to prioritise funds in the area of the elderly. That is the willingness of the government, and I hope that the Folketing does. We cannot support the concrete proposal to introduce requirements to obtain public criminal records when recruiting staff in the care and care sectors for both private and public employers. However, as I have said, we are open to discussing all good proposals and ideas that can take care of the elderly in a new and better direction. I look forward to the further work of the working group, which will look at how to get tools in the care of the elderly to support the fact that these stumbled vessels do not get work in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113162513	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113162516	Thank you. Well, I am somewhat incomprehensible that the Minister cannot support this good proposal, because it is the case today that there is a 'can' clause in order to obtain criminal records, which means that it is not a'must' clause. We in the Danish People's Party want it to be a "skal" clause, also in relation to obtaining these public criminal records. I contacted the Minister in August precisely because the Ekstra Bladet had been running a number of articles, among others. about an elderly lady who needed care and care, and the headline was: My mother followed the theft with her eyes. It was a social and health worker who stole from the old lady who could then follow this theft with her eyes. And now I see that the Minister does not think that this proposal should be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113162625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113162626	I am not aware of the very specific matter raised by the rapporteur, at least not on a stand-by basis, but if this proposal should have had an effect, it should have been a person who had been punished in the past, and I am simply not aware of that fact in the specific newspaper article. It probably also shows very well that whatever it is that a criminal record may clearly be relevant to catch up, but cannot stand alone and, unfortunately, cannot be a guarantee that we will then have the assurance that there are no stray vessels in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113162729	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113162730	That is why it is even more incomprehensible for the Minister to say that it will not be tolerated if it happens when the Minister does not want to take action at the same time, in relation to the fact that it must be compulsory to obtain public criminal records. In other words, the Minister must acknowledge that it is a prevention tool • a prevention tool which can just stop some of the stumped vessels from getting employment again, including employment in the private sector. For different rules apply, including in this area, to the public and to the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113162812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113162813	Well, what needs to be done is to strengthen recruitment work and strengthen the retention work, and it has to be said that when we look primarily at the elderly sector in the years to come, we face a huge challenge: that we need many more, in tens of thousands of employees, so it must be an attractive and good workplace, not a job where there are cuts and where there is a bad culture. I think that is at the heart of it, i.e. to make it attractive for people with a healthy culture to look for jobs there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113162855	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113162857	Thank you so much. I have to put a question to the Minister because the Minister is standing here saying that a criminal record is a sign of a snapshot. The minister is also talking about how important a recruitment process is and how important it is that those who come home in people's private homes are not these stumbled vessels. That is why it makes no sense simply not to support the fact that they must of course have a clean record. I'm a schoolteacher myself. In this area, children's certificates are quite natural. If you're going to work with kids, of course you need a clean child certificate. It's quite natural. Some of the examples specifically mentioned in this motion for a resolution are people who have a conviction in advance who have committed fraud that has beaten older people and everything else. You'll be able to catch that fast if you get a criminal record. I just can't understand it. Why will the Social Democratic Party and why will the Minister not support the fact that one must of course have a clean record if one is to take care of some of the most vulnerable citizens in their own private homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163008	But when it is a snapshot, what we then agree it is, it is precisely something that should not give anyone false security, and that is precisely what is crucial. I would like to appeal to the working group with FOA and KL and training centres, central parties in this area, to investigate this. Now, let's get the experience together, and let's get this checked out. I am very, very ready to listen to what they then recommend, but I think it is absolutely essential that we also recognise from Parliament that there is no one tool that can be used and then say that this problem has just been solved. There's no such thing. This tool won't be what we can use and then say that this problem is eliminated and solved. It will not be possible to have. Public criminal records go back ten years; private criminal records go back five years. There are many things that make it impossible to catch everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163110	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163112	We are in complete agreement, and the Minister knows that very well, and we have discussed this several times, that more things need to be done, and we are, of course, ready to do so. But when you hire a person who has to take care of older people it may be older people with dementia, it may be older people who are so caring that they live in a foster home, but it may also be older people who have to have people home in their own private home, then I think it is quite natural that they should not have a conviction for having deceived, stolen, threatened, committed violence. Does the Minister really not think that this is one of some pretty good ways of securing the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163154	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163155	It has just been introduced per year. 1 July last year in social services, and what I propose we do is that we gather some experience in this working group. It has only been going on for a few months and it has been during an epidemic, so I do not know exactly what has happened in the area of recruitment. Then we look at what they recommend we do in this area, but at the same time we also recognise, and I am glad that the rapporteur also confirms that it is not this that will be the guarantee against what we saw in the TV 2 documentary, or the other things that we have seen and have been appalled by in recent months.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163230	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163233	I think that when you ask a minister a question or make a proposal, you often get a very long talk about a whole lot of things and yet nothing. The minister's mixing it up. The minister does not look at the experience of children. I'm a volunteer Night's owl. That's where I was supposed to get a kid's certificate. We've had children's certificates in the children's area for so many years. Does it really matter? Would it have been better to look at the employment interview, as the Minister mentioned? The minister is talking about our lack of staff. Is that why the Minister is afraid that we are making some demands? Because it could be that we could weed out some of them. And for this, making it a requirement: yes, there are a lot of municipalities that do, but there are also some who do not. And it's to secure our oldest fellow citizens. Then the Minister says that we must also be ready to set up an economy for that. This doesn't cost money. I would like the Minister's answer to that, because how much is this proposal to say to the municipalities that it should be a duty?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163347	Exactly the price element in it is one of the things that this working group, which is set up, has to evaluate. That working group therefore aims to assess in general terms how to ensure better recruitment to the elderly and care area with a stronger but also a greater attraction for the right people with the right values and the right competences. What they do in concrete terms is to look at what you do in other areas and what you can do here. And what will it cost financially, and what can be gained from experience? For quite a short time it has been voluntary to do so. What is the experience of this, and what do we have from experience in other sectors? And that work is set in motion. And I think it would be wiser for us to wait for the outcome of that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163432	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163433	I think it is silly to talk about it, because there is now a proposal. We in the Danish People's Party have had a series of proposals that should help build that we could have a safe home care so that you didn't get exposed to any of the things we experience. When we come up with a single proposal, it is not big enough, because there are many more things to do, but when we come up with a larger proposal • there will be one for consideration afterwards • it is guaranteed too much and costs a great deal of money. That is always the opposite answer given by the Minister. Why is it not simply to say that this should be the case in all municipalities? You could start by saying that I am sending out a shepherd's letter to all the municipalities that they shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163513	If that's what this working group ends up proposing, let's take a look at it. I can say that the parties have been called for a meeting tomorrow. I believe that it is tomorrow that we will have a meeting to follow up on the Elders' Summit together with the FOA, the Elders' case and the KL, where the various tracks for follow-up will be examined with the older rapporteurs. I look forward very much to that meeting. There you will also be informed about how they work in these areas and they will make some concrete recommendations. It is important that we listen to those who have their fingers on the pulse and are in charge out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163553	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. And the first rapporteur is Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113163612	There's the booze, great. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the suggestion. In Denmark we have a public sector which we can rightly be quite proud of. Not least, we have a municipal older sector with thousands of dedicated employees and managers who day in and day out ensure the care and presence of thousands of older citizens. The Corona crisis has, on something, shown us all that this particular sector is made up of committed employees who are doing their best to provide the best welfare for our oldest fellow citizens. In Denmark we also have a very good contract with each other that we here at Christiansborg ensure the right legislation that in this case, where it is about elderly care, the municipalities fill out the framework. Of course, hiring staff in the municipal care of the elderly is a municipal task, and in the municipalities you make an effort to recruit the right staff, and you have the task of ensuring clear guidelines for the daily work of the employees, including the work that means you are entrusted with entering the private homes of older people. The proposal, which the Danish People's Party has put forward here, seeks to require municipalities to obtain criminal records when they are employed in the care of the elderly. I think it goes without saying that everyone in this Chamber can see the sense that it is right and proper to have the opportunity to obtain a criminal record when hiring staff to enter the private homes of citizens, not least citizens who are at risk because of their ageing and perhaps dementia. As an employer, you find that an applicant has been punished in the past for example. In fact, you can take precautions. Precisely because this issue has been debated before, among other things. Since 7 July 2019, the municipalities have been able to obtain public criminal records. So I would say to the Danish People's Party that I actually think this is a matter of heart for all of us. I would also be able to understand this proposal if it had been put forward, given that the provisions adopted on 7 July 2019 had not worked. However, I am not aware of this, nor can I see from the material referred to by the Danish People's Party in the resolution whether it refers to specific cases where, after 7 July 2019, municipalities have failed to obtain criminal records and where, subsequently, there are employees in the care of the elderly who have committed something illegal that could have been prevented if there had been a requirement to obtain criminal records. As far as I can see, all the cases referred to relate to people who were employed before the date on which it was possible to obtain criminal records. I have not seen any new cases since, including those referred to in the press. But maybe there's something I missed. It is no art that we are making new laws in this Chamber. So, although it may seem so attractive to say to the municipalities that they must now obtain criminal records, I would strongly request that we allow the provisions which are barely a year and a half old to come into force so that we can see the impact of them. But, of course, we must always make sure that the municipalities have the best possible tools to employ the right staff. And should it be expected that the July 2019 regulations do not help the municipalities, then perhaps the matter is different. In the social democracy we will not ignore real warnings. It is necessary right now to allow the newest rules to work, and we hope, of course, that they will work as they are intended. I have not heard from any municipalities that they do not obtain criminal records in the area of the elderly, and I have not heard of cases where people have been employed since 2019. At the same time, we also note with pleasure that the Minister for Health and the Elderly, in connection with the treatment of also B 62 and B 74 on the authorisation of social and health workers, announced that a working group will be set up, among other representatives of KL and FOA, to look at possible solutions to how to avoid stray vessels in the care of the elderly in the future. Of course, it would be natural to return to the need for a requirement to obtain criminal records, and I hear the Minister is also open to looking at this if that is what is being recommended. So in the Social Democratic Party we cannot support the proposal as it stands, but of course we want broad cooperation in the Folketing on this area, and we also look forward to the recommendations of the working group. I should like to welcome the SF and say that they cannot vote in favour of the proposal either, as it stands, but look forward to the debate. And I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164055	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164059	It is simply incredible that the Social Democrats receive this motion for a resolution. Because I do not know whether the Socialist rapporteur has followed suit. I also mentioned an example to the Minister here from August 2020, and there are plenty of examples if you read today's newspapers, and it is not long ago that a teacher was filmed in beating a disabled citizen, and there will be a trial here in January. So I do not know where the Socialist rapporteur is. Because if you read the papers, you can see that examples pop up regularly. But I really want to ask you something, because the reason why it was an opportunity to obtain public criminal records was, of course, the Danish People's Party and that we had debated these proposals. But what is also in it is that it is still a 'can' clause, and the other part of it is, as I said earlier in this debate, that private suppliers do not have the same opportunity to obtain public criminal records; and at the same time, the Socialist rapporteur says that they do not want to do so. I just have to say, I'm deeply puzzled. What will the Social Democratic Party do to prevent it and get a tool to stop the stumbled vessels?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164217	I have to repeat some of what the Minister said. You know, getting a criminal record in itself isn't enough to avoid stinging vessels. So there are several handles that need to be pulled in, and I think it is to over-interpret it when you say that we are not going to do anything, that we are not taking it seriously. I say precisely that we will be following this development very closely and that in 2019 we have helped to say in this Chamber that it must now be possible for the municipalities to obtain criminal records also in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164245	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164246	Well, it is of no use to follow developments closely when you can see that criminals convicted, the stumped vessels, can continue to work at a private supplier or elsewhere where no criminal record is obtained. The reason why it should also be a public criminal record is, of course, that it goes back longer than the private criminal record. So I'm deeply puzzled. Will the Socialist rapporteur abolish child certificates? Do you think they are a good tool to prevent paedophiles from working with children? Why, then, do you not think that this is a good tool for preventing abuse of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164327	I certainly think it's a good tool. It is precisely for this reason that I also have the impression that the municipalities are actually making use of obtaining criminal records, and again I do not know whether the rapporteur has any knowledge, which I do not have, that the municipalities are not using this opportunity to obtain criminal records since it became possible for them. It is my particular impression that they are doing so. Among the cases I read about in the press and I have, of course, read up on the case until today I have not been able to see that there are any cases where the people who committed any crime have been recruited after July 2019. But again: if there are some cases I am not aware of, I will of course go into detail once again to see if I can find out. Otherwise, the rapporteur is welcome to send them to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164408	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164409	Thank you. In other words, a specific case has been mentioned in the motion for a resolution with one which has three judgments, two of which have fallen since July 2019, I think that was what the rapporteur said. This is quite clear in the motion for a resolution, and now the text is not so long. Oh, yeah, it's happening. If you think that children's certificates are a good idea in the field of children, then I think that we all agree that this is a good idea. Why does the Social Democrats not think it is a good idea to secure this? We can only see in motions for resolutions examples of people who have been convicted on several occasions of committing specific fraud against older people being repeatedly recruited to deal with something as vulnerable as, among other things, the situation. to go home to the homes of older people and take care of them. Why does the Social Democrats not think so here? And there's the part about getting into that we're now in a discussion with KL and stakeholders and everything else. The Social Democratic Party must have an opinion on whether to hire people in the care sector who have a stained criminal record, in other words with some of these rather ugly things. Does the Social Democratic Party not have an independent position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164523	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164524	I think I have made my position quite clear. In relation to the examples just mentioned in this case, these are examples of people who have been convicted after that date. Yes, but they have been recruited before the date on which the municipalities had the opportunity to obtain criminal records. So it is important for the rapporteur to read it correctly. We take this very, very seriously, and I have said the same from the platform several times. This is the second time in a very short space of time that we have this matter on, and we are following it very closely, and I can also note with satisfaction that the Minister is also taking it very seriously. So I think it is an unfounded claim to say that we are not taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164600	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164601	But I just think it's kind of striking. Because it doesn't make it any better for the person concerned to be employed and, for example, not to be fired now is what is mentioned in the motion for a resolution when she is convicted of cheating and deceiving those for whom she has to go and work. Well, it certainly doesn't make it any better, and I almost think it makes it worse that, as an employer, you don't make sure you fire someone who gets convicted of it. Because it also shows that she was allowed to continue working. I'm just a little puzzled that you keep shooting this thing to the corner with that there's a working party and it's gonna be a little pickle jar-like and that somebody has to make a statement. Can't you have a stand on your own? Does not the Social Democrats think that it is a very good idea to ensure that someone has a clean record when working with some of our most vulnerable, particularly the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164644	I would like to repeat what I said before: it is absolutely not a jar of jelly. We take this very seriously and we have introduced a rule in July 2019 that municipalities can obtain criminal records, and it is my belief that they do so. Should it turn out they're not doing it, so we're in a completely different situation. But when I talk to KL, that is definitely not the impression I have, and when I talk to the municipalities, that is definitely not the impression I have, and we take this very seriously, and we follow it very, very closely. Of course we cannot ignore real warnings, it would be indecent to avoid making the right legislation, because of course we must.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164717	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then the rapporteur of the Left is ■ when a little has been drunk and the rapporteur of the Left is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113164735	Thank you, President. First of all, I should like to welcome Mrs Jane Heitmann, the rapporteur for the elderly, who, because of corona isolation, is unable to be present in this Chamber today. Today we are going to consider a proposal from the Danish People's Party to introduce a duty to obtain public criminal records by employing staff and management in the care and care sector. Just as the rapporteur of the Left did at first reading of the previous resolution, namely B 106 from May 2020, I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising an extremely important and relevant issue in the Assembly, namely how to provide security for the care and care staff who have access to the homes of the elderly. We in the Left do not want to hide the fact that every time we read in the newspaper that a trusted staff has molested, been violent or committed other criminal acts such as this. Theft in an elderly citizen, we become angry and mad and furious and immensely sad, especially on behalf of the elderly. It is simply not to bear when caring staff abuse the trust that both the elderly and we, as a society, have shown. Whether cash has been stolen or bank information and debit cards have been misused or violence has been committed, it must be an aggravating circumstance that something criminal has happened by a person who is employed to look after and care for the elderly citizen. We must put an end to this, it is the position of the Left. That is why we also have immense sympathy for the proposal from the Danish People's Party that we are debating today. It is important for us to safeguard our weak older ones and provide them with the security they rightly deserve. In the comments to the proposal, the Danish People's Party mentions a number of sad cases which in recent years have found their way into the columns of the press, and each and every one of them I just want to make that clear is too much. Fortunately, it is not often that we see cases such as those mentioned in the resolution. The vast majority of employees in the care and care sector do a fantastic job and contribute positively to the everyday life and care of the elderly. Thank you very much and warmly, because they are doing an important job. Therefore, it is also sad when few stray vessels are allowed to create distrust for the skilled and committed staff in the care and care sector. The question is: and that's what's the hard part about how we're gonna avoid these cases in the future. The first thing that comes to mind is that all municipalities actually have the possibility of obtaining a criminal record of their own motion in connection with a recruitment process. Everyone has to ask themselves why the municipalities do not always make use of that opportunity. Now I understand from the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Vind, that this may always be the case. I am not going to be wise because I am not here as rapporteur for the elderly, I am here as an alternate. I do not know the answer to that question either, but this may be due to the fact that a criminal record is very much a snapshot and seems backwards. A clean criminal record says nothing about how a person will act in the future, and can therefore create false security. I would like to reiterate what the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned during the previous reading of B 106, namely that there is no doubt that obtaining criminal records is a good tool for municipalities in the recruitment processes. That is also why, in the past, we in the Left have been involved in establishing a similar system for staff in the provision of services covered by social legislation. On the left side, we will follow the new legislation in the social field, which makes it compulsory to obtain criminal records when hiring persons in offers covered by the Social Protection Act. Here we will have a very good opportunity to see how the proposal works in practice and, on that basis, to assess whether it makes sense to extend the proposal to the elderly, if the experience is good. The Minister for Health and the Elderly has previously advocated a registration scheme for care and care workers which can help prevent people with previous unfortunate employment from being employed in a new position in another municipality. We in the Left would like to explore that possibility. Secondly, the Committee on Health and the Elderly is working on a joint report aimed at the approval of health care workers. The possibility of having its authorisation withdrawn by criminal acts could also contribute to the failure of staff with criminal inclinations to obtain employment in other municipalities. All in all, initiatives are under way which need to be clarified and a joint report is on the way to uncovering the possibilities of such a system for health workers. This is all pointing in the right direction. I would just like to stress that the Left cannot support the proposal this time either, but we call on the government to evaluate the scheme in social legislation and then we will deal with it afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113165252	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. Then the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party, has asked for a split of her speaking time, so that is why this is the first part of her speech. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113165313	Thank you. This proposal is not a new proposal from the Danish People's Party. It is, of course, a wish we have had for a long time and also a proposal we have put forward in the past. And this proposal, I would like to point out, is not about suspiciousing the many skilled staff who do their job every day and making a huge difference. This proposal will have no effect on them. On the other hand, it will have an impact on the social and health worker who was convicted of fraud against older people whom she was employed to look after. The extra magazine brought the article in August 2020, which was about the social and health care worker sneaking to unlock the older people's card information while she had been sent out to them from various temporary agencies to help them in their homes. 80 conditions of data fraud against five different sick and elderly victims she was charged with as well as working as a sosu helper, although she has been denied the court because she has cheated the elderly in the past. That should not be an option, but unfortunately it is today. She was brought together for fraud for over 300,000 kroner. The money she spent on websites such as Norwegian and Air France, and she also acknowledged that she had traveled to Tenerife for the elderly's money. The judgment was her third judgment for the same thing. Unfortunately, this is just an example of many, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party want it to be compulsory to obtain public criminal records on staff working in the care and care sector and to introduce requirements for obtaining public criminal records when recruiting staff not only in the public sector but also in the private sector. Today, as I said, it is only an opportunity for employers in the public sector, but they are not obliged to do so, and in relation to the private suppliers it is not possible to obtain public criminal records. This shows an answer that I have received from the Minister for Health and the elderly to a question that I have asked on the basis of the example I have just given. Among other things, the Minister replies.According to section 22 of the Order. No. 1 7, it is not possible for the National Police to issue a public criminal record to private suppliers for carers and carers. However, according to section 11 of the Order, private suppliers can obtain a private criminal record for care and care workers if the private supplier has obtained prior consent... Finally, the Minister says: "The Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly, will look at a solution as soon as possible so that we can together ensure that similar cases can be avoided in the future. ▪ Unfortunately, we have not seen any solutions, either from our Minister for Health and the Elderly or from our Minister for Justice. That is why I think it is quite appropriate to put forward this proposal once again, because we need to have found solutions, and it is also strange that children's certificates are considered to be a prevention tool, but when it comes to the elderly, when it comes to people with disabilities, it is not as relevant, yes, it is suddenly anything but important. Then I would like to say something about what was mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur here in the debate: why do the municipalities not do so? They already do. However, I have also asked about this and I am referring to Question 5 from 20 May 2020. Mrs Birgitte Vind can read that. I have asked: can the Minister state how many municipalities and private suppliers make use of the possibility of obtaining public criminal records in connection with employment in the care and care sector? Then the Minister says: "For the answer to the question, a contribution has been obtained from KL, which I can rely on. KL can indicate that there is no overall overview of how many municipalities and private suppliers make use of the possibility of obtaining public criminal records in connection with employment in the care and care sector. An inventory will require the staff department of each municipality to draw up its own inventory of the extent to which public criminal records are obtained in connection with employment in the health and elderly sector. So we don't know anything about that. Well, we don't have anything factual about it. I also believe that the answer is a little wrong in relation to the private suppliers, because I have subsequently received an answer to that, namely that private suppliers cannot obtain public criminal records. However, we look forward to today's debate and hope that at some point we can obtain a majority in order to protect some of the most vulnerable and vulnerable in our society, people with disabilities. And now my time is up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113165828	That is it, and there is a brief comment from Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113165830	Thank you for that, and thank you for the speech and always the burning commitment. The rapporteur is so committed to the area of the elderly, and I very, very much appreciate that. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware of the fact that there are municipalities which do not obtain criminal records when they employ staff in the care of the elderly, if we disregard the examples mentioned in the case, which are, after all, before 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113165849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113165854	We do not have an overview of that. That's exactly why I've been asking about it. I was called by a journalist at a time who said that some municipalities did not. Of course, I've asked my own municipality if they do, and they do. So we don't really have anything on it, it flies like in the wind, but I can tell that when we look at these examples, these facts, there are a lot of people who don't catch up. Otherwise, we wouldn't be able to see these examples, because then it would have been stopped. I think that the examples are a little proof of the fact that not everyone does so, either in the municipal or in the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113165943	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113165944	Thank you. What does the rapporteur say to listen to the KL and hear what they say about this and take their views on board? After all, they are the employers. I can hear that the Minister would like to call both the KL, the FOA and the Elders case for a discussion of this. What is the rapporteur's position on listening to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170002	I'm always happy to listen. I'm aware that the Elders case has been out of support in the past. To the second part on the KL, I asked for it here at a meeting with the KL that we had within the Committee on Health and the Elderly, but I do not know if the rapporteur remembers that. I didn't get a note from KL about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170022	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Then the next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170044	Thank you. There's never been so clean in the hall. Well, thank you for the floor. I have a feeling of déjà vu, because we also had this debate before the summer holidays last year. But that does not change the fact that this is an important area, so once again thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this issue and putting it back on the agenda. After all, these are some terrible matters that have been in the field of care, and the proposers also list a number of them in the proposal here, and we have been mentioned several of them here in the previous speakers. It is clear that people who exploit their position for enrichment or who in other ways commit abuse should not, of course, be employed in our care sector. I think we can all agree that it is self-evident. We also have a responsibility to tackle those problems. The only question is whether this proposal is the right solution. Overall, and I hear the rapporteur for the proposers himself say that, we can of course have confidence in the vast majority of employees in our care sector. This applies both to those who have the day-to-day contact and to those who provide management. So the stinging vessels must not destroy that. It is clear that employees must have the necessary professional and human qualifications so that they can carry out the job they have, which is to take care of our most vulnerable citizens. It is the responsibility of management to ensure that this is the case and to use the tools they consider relevant: the personal interview, calls to former employers or obtaining a criminal record, which has now become an option. The question then is whether we need to obtain criminal records automatically. It is not clear to me that it will solve the problems that exist, even in the cases mentioned in the proposal here. Because, as the rapporteur for the Socialist Group also said, they are before it was possible to obtain criminal records. In addition, we have also introduced a law which, per Member State, has been adopted. 1 July last year makes it a duty to obtain criminal records for certain other staff groups. Personally, I would like to have those experiences in place. I would like to see how much this has meant before we choose to spread it over the whole care sector. It may well be the solution. I would just like to look at the experience that is coming and I would like to hear what KL and other relevant parties have to say before we make a decision. So in the Radical Left we have great sympathy for the purpose of the proposal, but we cannot support what it is here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170310	Thank you. There is a brief comment here from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170312	Thank you. As I said earlier, there are examples. I have also just mentioned an example here from August, which was in the Ekstrabladet. There are examples of it in today's newspapers. But what I really want to hear from the radical rapporteur is the reason why this is not being supported here. I am very incomprehensible about that. In other words, we are elected politically and we are because we have a position and an opinion on it. Therefore, I would really like to hear the opinion of the radical rapporteur on obtaining public criminal records as a prevention tool. As the resolution also says, this is a tool, and we are well aware that it cannot stand alone. And this is something that we are trying to ignore in this debate, but we in the Danish People's Party would like to find solutions in relation to the broken vessels, so that we ensure that they do not continue to work in the care and care sectors. So I would like to hear the radical rapporteur's response to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170417	Thank you. I fully acknowledge that the proposer does not say that this is the solution It is clear that it is a tool, and it is also a tool that we are using in other areas, as has been mentioned earlier. It may well be a solution. It may well have to be disseminated. I am just saying that we have just introduced this, that is to say the obligation to obtain criminal records in certain areas, as the rapporteur is also aware. It started on July 1st last year. Personally, I would like to have that experience in place and see if it has made a difference. I would also like to know, as the rapporteur has also asked, and has not received a very full answer to how much the possibility of obtaining criminal records is actually being used. Is this necessary? Have we actually solved this with the tools on the table? I would like that to be settled before we make new legislation. That is why I am waiting for the experience that has been gained since 1 July last year. And that is why I would like to hear what KL and other relevant actors have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170509	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170510	It is good to hear what other players have to say. But so, I called for the position of the radical rapporteur. Would this not be a good prevention tool? And again: We are chosen on our positions; we are not chosen on what all other players think or think. We can be responsive to it, and then we can take it with us, we think we can use it here. And as I said, it was us in the Danish People's Party who fought for it in relation to the social area, and we think it makes good sense to spread it out. So I am incomprehensible that the Radical Left cannot support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170550	Yeah, sorry if I didn't make it clear enough. My view is that it may be a good tool • it has proved to be in other areas; I fully acknowledge that. What I'm saying is that we're saying, among other things. because of the Dansk Folkeparti, largely because of the Dansk Folkeparti has just introduced it as a claim from 1 July last year. I would like to look at that experience before we choose to spread it out. It may well be relevant to do so. I do not reject that. I just want some more data before I say it, but I acknowledge that it is a good tool. My position is: we have seen that in other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170619	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113170646	Thank you. Yes, it is just before you remember the sign on the wall of the swimming pool: Clean for the Lord, but what does the master say? We could almost say: what does the President say? But at least now it's got the booze off here. As previous rapporteurs have mentioned, this is, of course, a proposal that we have discussed in the past, but it is also an example of the fact that perseverance sometimes pays off, because the last time we discussed it, we ended up in the Enhedslisten voting yellow on this proposal. I think that has been clarified now and we would like to support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. I fully agree with Mrs Karina Adsbøl when she says that this is not a question of stigmatising workers in the care and care sectors. The vast majority of those employed are doing an excellent, a great, a dedicated effort; but there are a few stumbled vessels, and of course we must avoid destroying them for others. I think it is reasonable that this resolution is aimed at both public and private providers at this time, and I really think it is right that when we, as a public authority, employ staff who are going to work in the citizens' own homes, we should also make every effort to ensure that citizens are not subjected to financial crime or abuse. And I think we are helping to secure that with this proposal here, just as we have seen it in the specialized social area, where this requirement has also been introduced. That is why I think it is right that this is also something we are doing in the elderly and care sector. I think it is also the case that very many municipalities do so in advance. That is also why we have had the consideration whether this is at all necessary. But we can at least see that not all municipalities are involved. And you can say that if you do so in all municipalities, there will certainly be no harm in imposing a requirement that you should do so, because I think it should be a natural practice that when you employ staff, you demand a criminal record. This does not mean that, if there is a stain on the criminal record, they cannot be recruited; it is just a question of having the opportunity to see whether there should have been cases in the past where an applicant has committed financial crime in connection with the work. I also believe that it can help to destigate the whole area in order to ensure that this is not a debate that comes up again and again; for every time it comes up, it helps to raise the issue. And that is why I think we should also do everything we can to avoid this. It is clear that a matter of obtaining a criminal record does not solve it. In other words, crime can also be committed by some who have not committed it in the past, so it is not a guarantee that it will not happen. However, I think it is absolutely essential that we, as an authority, do all we can to prevent this from happening again at least. It is also clear that it does not, of course, solve everything in relation to the challenges we face in this area either. It is also very much a question of ensuring sufficient professionalism and quality in relation to efforts in the care and elderly sectors, and that is one of them. Some of what we have also helped to lift with the latest financial law here, where we have been given additional funds for the area. It is clear that this is an effort that we must continue, and we must ensure a higher level of professionalism and that it is trained staff who are in the sector. However, as I said, we support the motion for a resolution. It is clear that there will be a challenge in terms of possible funding, but we must look at that. And, as I said, I believe that the vast majority of municipalities are already fulfilling the task, which is why I think it is sensible to have it introduced as a general requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171054	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171130	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for once again putting forward the proposal to force municipalities to obtain criminal records. It is, of course, an expression of perseverance, which I actually have a great deal of respect for. After all, we have discussed this proposal before, and there have been no new elections since then, but there are equally some who have changed their position on the proposal, and this also shows that perseverance is moving a little. I would say that we are not going to support the proposal, and that is simply because we are in favour of municipal autonomy. After all, it is a municipal task to run the care of the elderly in this country, and we do not think that we should run the retail business as violently as what we are proposing here. After all, there is a certain burden on managing it here, and we also know that there are some short-term jobs in the care of the elderly. It may be some students who are just about to have a summer vacation, and there may be various other things. So we think we should leave it up to the municipalities. I also believe that there are a great many municipalities that are currently obtaining criminal records, and just that when you advertise after staff you point out that you reserve the right to obtain criminal records, you also have an effect in relation to potential applicants with spotted criminal records, because if that is the case, then it would probably be quite natural for you to fail to apply for a job when you know that a criminal record can be obtained. We need to look after the elderly, we need to ensure that there is security in the care of the elderly. This is among other things. One of the reasons why we have put forward a proposal to ensure authorisation for all those who have to work in the care of the elderly. We believe that will have a good effect if someone behaves inappropriately. It doesn't have to be a criminal. It can just be some inappropriateness in relation to if there are some people who have a lack of empathy and who do not treat the elderly properly and dignifiedly, as we want and expect. This is an area which is of great concern to us too: that we have a well-functioning care for the elderly. I have seen that there are a few municipalities where it has failed and where there have been some unpleasant cases, and we do not like to see that, but I hope that it will be handled around the municipalities because it is a municipal task. It is the municipalities that are close, and it is a core task for the municipalities, and they must solve it, and they must do it properly. If they do not do so, then the voters will have the opportunity to put in some new town roots, municipal councillors, on 16 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171451	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171453	I think that the Conservative rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is right. Per Larsen, should have followed Enhedslisten's example of changing his attitude in this area. But I'd like to hear about something. It is the case today that we have child certificates in the area of children, and children's certificates must also be obtained for temporary workers if they want to work with children. But I just need to understand. The Conservative rapporteur does not think that the same prevention should apply to the elderly or to people with disabilities who have a disability because they do not want to make it compulsory to obtain public criminal records. In my speech, I read out an example and I hope that Mr. Per Larsen has followed the example which shows that it does not happen everywhere and in all municipalities. I have also set an example in relation to private suppliers. So it is with deep astonishment that I have to say that Conservatives do not support this. But what will Conservatives do then? 'Cause you can get your license off and then still work here if you don't get a public record.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171612	In other words, municipal autonomy works quite well in many areas, and if it is the case that the municipal council takes a line that demands a criminal record, then you have to do so, and if you do not think it is necessary and you have confidence that the management you have in the area of the elderly takes the steps that need to be taken when the management there finds it necessary to obtain a criminal record, then it is actually okay for us. It is a municipal task, and the municipal authorities and the municipalities must at all ensure that this is the case. I don't think there's any reason to run this in detail. And when we talk about child certificates, it is something much more serious than if financial crime is committed, because some people are simply not supposed to have to deal with children at all, if it is the case that they have some inclinations that may be detrimental to children. These are different matters and we trust that the municipalities will carry out that task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171722	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171724	Now I'm not going to judge what's most serious. We have seen elderly people who have been subjected to sexual abuse and rape and other things, including in their homes. We have seen people with disabilities also being sexually exploited by people who had to take care of them. However, I note that the Conservative People's Party would like to play a part in doing so in the social field, because we did, of course, achieve that with the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party, but here we simply do not want to make it compulsory. And in relation to this, we also lack private suppliers. They cannot obtain public criminal records, so it is not a "skal" clause, but that is what we want in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171813	In exactly the same way that the municipalities have the opportunity to do so when they make notices in relation to attracting new staff, one has the opportunity to point out that one would like to have consent to obtain a criminal record, and I suppose private suppliers can do so, so simply point out that if applications are made, the private supplier reserves the right to obtain a criminal record. And I think that's quite fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171841	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur, so now it is the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party, Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113171906	Trust must be the most dominant word when it comes to the care and care of one's elderly relatives or of oneself when one day one gets there; we all do that at some point. Unfortunately, we have been able to read over and over again that carers abuse that trust by stealing, threatening, beating, swindling and deceiving. In 2018, a male sosu assistant was sentenced to 40 days in jail for beating a 96-year-old nursing home resident. Also in 2018, a female sosu assistant was sentenced to 21⁄2 years in prison for violence and robbery committed against a 86-year-old woman, and the sosu assistant had three convictions in advance. In January 2019, a female sosu assistant was sentenced to 11⁄2 years in prison for data abuse and mandate fraud; she had abused both payment cards and banking information. And again in 2020, a 27-year-old female sosu helper was convicted of having abused several older people's card information and cheated them money; she also had other criminal circumstances behind her. These are just some of the examples that are actually specifically mentioned in this resolution, but the examples are of course more and must be stopped. It is common sense that you should of course make sure that those you hire to care for the Danish elderly are not criminals, and I think we can all agree on that. Of course, those who have previously committed crime and abused their position must never again work with trusting duties such as caring for the elderly. Of course, a perpetrator is not going to take care of the elderly again, and of course a con man and a impostor are not going to have to return to the private homes of older people. If the convicted criminals are foreigners, they must of course be shown consistently and after the first sentence. Those who have acquired Danish citizenship and receive an unconditional sentence of liberty must, of course, have taken away their Danish citizenship and be consistently expelled. Then we must ensure a better quality of care for the elderly in general. The money must follow the elderly so that you can choose and choose from. In new citizens, we support this proposal. We also hope that it will be adopted because it is simply common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113172148	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then it is the last rapporteur who is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113172231	First of all, I would like to thank those who support this proposal, i.e. thank you to the Enhedslisten. I am really glad that, when you are persistent, there are some little moves in this Chamber, so at least thank you to the Enhedslisten and also to the New Citizens for supporting this proposal. I can see that if I am going to count the mandates, there is still a bit of a long way to go, but no one should be in any doubt that we in the Danish People's Party are continuing this fight, and I believe that it will end up with the government having to put some of this on its own. But I would like to say something about why we consider this proposal important. It is precisely about preventing sexual abuse, violence, thefts, robbery against people who have a physical or mental impairment, including people with disabilities, elderly people and people with a mental illness. These are vulnerable citizens who are characterised by the fact that they are often deeply dependent on help in their daily lives, and unfortunately we have seen examples of people in psychiatric care, home care, settlements and nursing homes who have seriously abused the responsibility they have been given to help people who depend on their help and the stray vessels destroy it for many of the skilled staff who make a huge difference in the care sector every day and the stray vessels must be stopped. And as has already been said in the debate, we have made legislation in the social field, in which we have just demanded that offers subject to the Social Protection Agency should be covered by the fact that these criminal records should be obtained in the recruitment of staff, including managers, and a requirement was also introduced that, as a condition for the approval of a new offer, the Social Protection Agency should be obliged to ensure that the offer had also obtained criminal records from staff and managers already employed. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party have been fighting for for a very long time, and now we are missing what we lack in relation to the care and care sector, what we lack in relation to our dear elderly people. Nor should there be any doubt, as I have said here from the platform today, that there are many skilled and competent workers in the care and caring professions, and as thankfully have the heart in the right place and who also make a huge difference every day and have empathy with them when they go to work, but unfortunately we have seen a number of examples of the opposite, and they have also been mentioned in this motion for a resolution, and unfortunately there have been a number of examples of this since then. That is why we must do everything we can to prevent this. I am sorry when the Minister says: 'Well, there are no guarantees, there are no guarantees, there are no guarantees, there are no guarantees, there are no guarantees, there are no guarantees, there are no guarantees, there are no guarantees'. I am well aware of this with guarantees, that is, I cannot provide any guarantees, and at least the Minister cannot, but the certificate is a tool to be used in relation to this. The rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party spoke earlier about authorisation, and yes, authorisation we have said that we would like to take a look. But it is not a guarantee in this way, because you can, even if you have had your authorisation withdrawn, if you have not obtained a criminal record, continue to work. We in the Danish People's Party are also concerned that there may be a dark figure in this area, and it does not appear either, because it is something that you would rather not like to talk about, and I am thinking here of some employees being relaxed out the back door if it is. Anyway, I just want you all to know that I'd like to continue the fight for years while I'm in Parliament to get this through. There are also several organisations that have been out to support this in the past. So I would like to thank you for today's debate. I hope, then, that when we are going to discuss it further, we can have it included in some debate. I think it is really a pity that every time there are some good proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber, there are a lot of people who are making a great deal of effort to shoot them down and not to take them seriously in view of the fact that this is really important. I am deeply surprised that, like children's certificates, we do not see that both elderly people and people with disabilities should have the same opportunity to prevent incidents. So thank you for today's debate. I look forward to the next debate we will have shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113172731	Thank you. There are no brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113172745	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113172819	Thank you. We are continuing with the policy on the elderly, and here it is a proposal to make a specific law on the elderly which would solve many problems. And there are many problems. There are huge challenges. You have to have lived under a rock if you haven't discovered it. The challenges we have are not new, and they are not surprising, but they are going to increase if we are not ready to act and if we are not ready to set aside real money to keep up with when the tasks are increased. One of the reasons why we have these problems is that there has been no willingness to keep up with the money properly. Then there is a proposal to introduce something that will be a genuine innovation, namely an old law. I can easily understand the thinking behind it. I have also had the opportunity to discuss it several times with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and colleagues from the Danish People's Party, and I can easily understand the wish. What I would recommend is, of course, that we take the debate and address the individual elements here, but also that we take a realistic view of what such a law would actually be able to do. Of course, such a law must also be financed. Otherwise it's just a paper that's written. Then it has no meaning whatsoever in the real world, where we have elderly and relatives and employees who work hard and fight every day. The funding here, I believe, is somewhat questionable and cannot in any way cover the desire that is here. In other words, the funding here should be something that was to be found through some participation fee on Danish education, which should give 145 million. kr. a year. By comparison, the recently adopted Finance Act has lifted the area by 1.8 billion. kr. From 2021 to 2024, and even so we were told by the Elders Case was not enough. It is an important step on the way, I am quite sure it is, but it is not the case that we are then saying that it is resolved with it. I also believe that if we are to be completely realistic and I believe that we should be faced with the monumental challenge we have ahead of us, then we must also say that such a proposal here, in which everyone wants to be written in and then tries to give this modest funding, is simply not something that will realistically change any everyday life for the better anywhere. That is why I must say that I can easily have very, very much sympathy for the desire behind it, but I simply do not think that this is the right tool. The tool must be perhaps a little less headline-friendly, but nevertheless thorough, objective work. Every time there is a municipal agreement, a regional agreement, money must be put off, so that we at least follow the demography, combined with financial laws, where we at least follow and therefore put on top of what we did in the recently adopted Finance Act. We then propose that we address this with a future welfare law... a welfare law that will ensure that, if there is support for the welfare law, the Folketing will in future be bound to keep up with the money when the costs rise, because there will be more children or more older or other elements. When the composition changes in different ways, the money must keep up. That is what has not been done enough so far, and that is what I think should happen. I think that is the right tool to put in place here. If you look instead at this proposal for an old-age law, it sounds like it, as I said, and there are also many, many good concrete and sympathetic elements in it, but when we are not near the shadow of funding it, it is a little more in nature that it is something you might say you have proposed. It is a fine headline, it may also be good on social media, but it is not doing well in reality. There it will fall on the floor hard because there is nothing at all similar to funding the elements of the proposal here. That is why I recommend that Parliament does not support it. At least as a member of the government, I cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113173306	Thank you. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113173308	Thank you. Well, what kind of nonsense does the Minister of Elders say? In other words, it says, as in the proposal here, that the Older People's Act, which is intended to ensure a decent and secure life for the elderly, is financed by savings in the field of foreigners, including the re-establishment of Danish tuition fees for foreign workers. A total of 145 million was set aside for the abolition of participation payments. kr. Annually from 2021. Well, it's not 33 billion. kr., which non-Western immigration costs? Well, there's some money to take off, Minister. Every time we in the Danish People's Party come up with a motion for a resolution that will help to ensure that our elderly are well and dignified care for the elderly, and that is urgently needed, the Minister stands and shoots it down. The government would like to put forward a child's law, but when it comes to our elderly, we do not need legislation. We don't need an old law... the minister doesn't think so. But what is it, in essence, that our Minister for the Elderly wants? I mean, we see so little action from our older minister when it comes to our older fellow citizens. We've seen, I don't know how many examples of care failure. What does the Minister want?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113173426	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113173428	This presentation is simply wrong in vertical terms. This government, with every agreement made with our municipalities by every agreement, has, as something quite new, as something fundamentally different from what was done by the majority that the rapporteur was in before the last election, followed by demography. In addition, in the recent Finance Act, we have given priority to 1.8 billion. kr. in the coming years to strengthen the care of the elderly. And you cannot stand in the Chamber and say that this is not a completely new course in which we are not only following, but are now investing, so that we can improve our care for the elderly. And that's the way we have to go. It must be an end to slapping and saying that now you are in favour of it and that, without having the money with you. They must have been dealt with for far too long on the spot, and that is what makes it too fast out there and that the cuts have been too many.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113173534	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113173535	I just knew it would come. But I just want to say that every time the Danish People's Party has entered the negotiating table, we have given priority to the elderly. That is why I also found a facebook message from Mrs Astrid Krag, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, from when she was rapporteur for the elderly, where she hacked down the former Elder Minister, and I quote from her reference to the then Minister Thyra Frank: "You always refer to the finance agreements you have made with the Danish People's Party. But these are precisely agreements where the Danish People's Party has lifted the elderly to the negotiating table. If you are in doubt, you can take a quick look at the financial law proposals that the government has made. So it just shows that the Danish People's Party has really fought for the elderly area, and we continue to do so. Unfortunately, however, we have an elderly minister who says every time that we can discuss a little in the area of the elderly, but nothing happens. You want to make a child's law, but you don't want an old law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113173633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113173635	I fully agree with the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior that the Danish People's Party is a party that speaks much and gladly and long about the elderly, and I am pleased that the policy on the elderly is on the agenda, also thanks to the Danish People's Party. One can only see that in the majority which the Danish People's Party has chosen to support, the elderly are not given enough priority. And under the government supported by the Danish People's Party, year after year we could see that every year the municipalities had huge savings catalogues for elderly care. It's over now, finally, and it's about time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113173714	Thank you. We go to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Birgitte Vind when she has spritted off. The minister cleans, it's nice to see. Here you go, Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113173737	Thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing a very complex proposal which deals with an old people's law, which aims both to guarantee indisputable rights in the field of minimum standards in the area of the elderly and to strengthen the Board of Patient Safety's supervision of the country's nursing home. When we in the Social Democratic Party went to elections in 2019 it was absolutely with the desire to bring about change in the public sector, because for too many years we have heard of a pressured public sector with employees at care centres and in the running home care, who experience having to override professionalism and orderlyness due to impossible working conditions. An example is a municipality where an employee has 5 minutes with a citizen who needs to have warmed food. But on the package of vacuum packed food it says that the court must be in the oven for 6 minutes. Before the employee comes in through the door and out again, at least 8 minutes have passed. His ticket says he has 3 minutes to stay with the next citizen who lives 6 km away. It goes without saying that, in addition to having to relax the time of the citizen and other citizens, the employee also ends the day with an awareness that he has not achieved what he should and would like to achieve. The care of the elderly has been forced to their knees and new public management tanks, where we think we can control everything in boxes and schedules have taken precedence. And we politicians lie to ourselves if we imagine that one can only continue to streamline oneself out of the need for care for the elderly in the future, or only with more laws and regulations that control employees, we can bring about change and that we can continue with the same or fewer means when more older people arrive. It goes without saying that there is a limit. I am therefore also very grateful to the parties who have supported in this Chamber to stop the erosion of the economy of the municipalities, among others. with the 2020 economic agreement, where we added EUR 2.2 billion to municipalities and regions. kr. and cancelled the re-prioritisation contribution; the 2021 Economic Agreement, which provides more funds for municipalities to keep up with when more older people arrive; the compensatory reform, which has ensured that more municipalities have the opportunity to provide welfare to citizens; and the 2021 Finance Agreement, which ensures a significant increase in the elderly area by 425 million. kr. in 2021 increasing to 500 million. kr. a year from 2024 onwards. Very major changes have taken place under the current government. To those who now want to say that the money does not do it alone, I would say: no, that is absolutely right. We also need to bring much more professionalism to the hands of employees, and we need to listen to the citizens and cooperate much better with the relatives. That is why I would also like to say a great deal of thanks to the parties in this Chamber who are behind the welfare agreements in the area of the elderly, which allow three municipalities to free staff and day-to-day management from endless rows of bureaucratic workflows and minute tyranny; three municipalities that are going to take the lead in a fight with over-management. The National Association of Municipalities also experiences that the current governance and regulation in several welfare areas has become too complex as employees and citizens and relatives. However, time under corona has shown that when local managers and staff are given confidence and have increased business space, indeed, the satisfaction and satisfaction of both citizens, relatives and employees increases. The forthcoming proximity reform must set a new, clear and ambitious direction for the development of the welfare society; a direction in which greater freedom, trust and professional space allow managers and employees to concentrate on providing the best possible welfare for citizens and where future welfare solutions are developed in a binding community through close cooperation between employees, citizens, leaders, local politicians and authorities. The increased supervision, which this bill also deals with, was secured back in November, when, among other things, we allocated the reserve. A total of EUR 62 million was committed. kr. for a four-year period for the continuation and strengthening of the Elders' Supervisory Authority, including e.g. compulsory follow-up and learning programmes. So that has been taken into account. The focus is also on more education and on more people being trained. Many of the objectives mentioned in the proposal at all, we fully agree with this concern, with direct influence on our daily lives, with the strengthening of the supervision of nursing homes and more skilled hands, and with the staff and we are aware that my time is running out, but I would say that it is already clear from the Services Act that older people need the help they need. Minimum standards in the care sector will be yet another bureaucratic over-management and retail management, which seems completely unrealistic to practice in highly specialised care for the elderly with many chronically ill citizens. So all in all, we in the Social Democratic Party must say 'no' to the very well-intentioned, but also very motley, proposals of the Danish People's Party. And I should like to welcome the Socialist People's Party and say that they cannot support the proposal either, as it stands, but that they are looking forward to the debate in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113174228	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113174230	Thank you. I know the government is basking in everything they've done, but I'm just wondering how Niels feels about it. How can Niels and Else feel that? Well, Else hadn't gotten any better by the fact that there had been five employees around her and watched that she was hanging in the lift and Niels, who walked around with feces all day and who weren't changed. We have seen massive neglect of our older fellow citizens, and therefore we want from the Danish People's Party action. I just have to say that the Social Democratic Party would like to make a child's law; they think it is important to ensure children, but they do not think it is important to guarantee the elderly: to give the elderly the right to self-determination in their own lives and to ensure that of course there is no night watchman who has to go alone with 40 residents or more. You don't want to make sure because you don't want to make an old law. Why? I mean, why don't you want to be a part of it? I'm deeply puzzled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113174336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113174340	Now I shall speak very nicely, but I would say it is something that looks like nonsense to say that it does not help to add more funds to the care of the elderly when we have just seen how pressure it is and how frustrated the staff are around. So that is to a large extent exactly what is the Social Democrat agenda. When it comes to making an old law, I find it so difficult to understand that the Danish People's Party would like to compare kindergarten children with nursing elderly people who are vulnerable and helpless, often in a bed, and need to get out of and into a bed. These are two very different aspects of our welfare society that need to be looked at in different ways. Today it is the case that the municipalities are obliged to provide the right care and care that the citizen needs. It has not always happened because it has simply not been possible to do so. It shows the example of this food that needs to be warmed, which I'm showing here. It has simply been too pressured, and it was, I apologise, under the bourgeois government that it was speedy that we saw these efficiency improvements. So I am so grateful that we have now come out on a track where we can get more money set aside and we can get more trained. There was a really amazing good news in DR this morning: now there are more applying to social and health education because we have allowed people over 30 years of age to actually do so on economically favourable terms. And these are the steps that need to be taken, so that we simply improve the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113174507	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113174508	Then I should also speak nicely, because it is nonsense for the rapporteur to put words into my mouth in this way in relation to the way I compare it. I'm just saying that it's strange that you want to make a child's law, but you just don't want to secure the elderly by making an old-age law and giving the elderly some rights. And compared to the money thing, I didn't say that money wasn't important. I'm just saying that Else from the care homes behind the façade didn't feel any better because there were five employees over three who were watching that she was hanging on that ride. It's about a lot more. It's about morality, it's about empathy, and it's about all these things. So what is the reason for not guaranteeing the rights of the elderly, that is to say the right to choose for yourself and the right to have the rock card system written in? The right to care is not even in the legislation, and not even the Social Democrats will be involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113174601	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113174602	The legislation says that the elderly must have the help and care they need, and the municipalities must live up to that. When we do not want to introduce retail management in the municipalities, it is because we have local government autonomy and we very, very much appreciate that. It turns out very clearly what happens when we do override from Christiansborg, because then the municipalities stop doing what they themselves seem to make sense, and then they run and comply with something that may not make sense in their municipality. It makes really, very good sense for the municipalities to adapt the aid to the individual care centre and to the citizens who are now in the municipality concerned, and it is certainly to care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113174636	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So we have to wipe off the platform and then there will be a new rapporteur, and that is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113174709	Thank you for the floor, President. Once again, I would like to welcome our talented older rapporteur, Mrs Jane Heitmann, and say that, unfortunately, because of corona isolation, she cannot be present today. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting an important topic for debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, namely a dignified care for the elderly. For us in the Left, it is absolutely crucial that our elderly are provided with dignified care for the elderly and cared for by highly qualified employees who, with empathy and understanding, ensure our elderly a dignified old age. This is also the case in the vast majority of places, fortunately. Skillful employees meet happyly at work every day, solve their assignments and go home to their families. A great thank you must be sent to them, for their important efforts are appreciated. But there are also places where it is happening completely, quite differently, unfortunately. The summer TV 2 documentary about Else Marie Larsen from Aarhus and too many other similar stories have taught us that the everyday life of some older people is both brutal, harsh, sad, devoid of humanity, empathy and care. We simply cannot be familiar with this. Our elders have worked hard to meet us today with highly qualified health professionals if we become ill, to teach our children to be taught by skilled teachers and our little ones to be cared for by caring educators. In that light, it is not too much to ask that there are also highly qualified and caring staff to look after all our older people when life is running out or when you just need help. The wish of the Danish People's Party with the motion for a resolution here is, among other things, to: to strengthen freedom of choice for our elderly. We fully support that starting point in the Left. We in the Left want all the elderly to be offered an independent elder counsellor, for example. gets to the place in life where you're going to a nursing home. For us, it is absolutely crucial that more elderly people have a real free choice and that older people and their relatives know what opportunities there are. An independent elder counselor can contribute to this. But that presupposes that there is something to choose from. That is why we in the Left want, among other things, to create far more free-care homes so that more municipalities can offer their elderly a real choice when the last home is to be chosen. It is simply not right that older people in about half of our municipalities have no option but to choose the municipal offer. People are different and have different preferences throughout their lives. This also applies to older people who have to choose the very last home. The Danish People's Party proposes minimum standards in all nursing homes. I have great sympathy for the proposal and understand that one can have the idea that a minimum number on the staff side would be able to solve the challenges of care for the elderly. But in the Left we just do not agree that minimum standards are the solution. If we look back at the documentary about Else Marie Larsen, which Mrs Karina Adsbøl has also mentioned here today, and which I have also mentioned earlier, and think back to the picture of Else, who hangs helpless over her bed in a lift, she is surrounded by caregivers. From my chair and here from the platform there is not exactly a basis for saying that there is a shortage of staff. No, there is a need for a change of culture among the staff, just as there is a need for very clear and clear management. In Elsinore last year we saw a social and health worker who spoke degradingly and rawly to an elderly woman. It was just another sad example of the raison d'être that unfortunately prevails in some places. On the left side, we have proposed boards at all municipal nursing homes, where management, staff, the elderly, the fire-souls and, above all, the relatives have a place. With local boards, it is possible to influence the choice of management style and management style, and this will have a much greater impact on everyday life in the individual nursing homes. The next of kin must be seen and heard. We believe this can ensure that our older ones enjoy a more harmonious everyday life with security of care. Finally, let me mention that together, through the reserve in the area of the elderly, we have set aside funds for the continuation of the Elders' Supervisory Authority; compulsory follow-up and learning units to follow up instructions at the care centres; upgrading supervision and a strengthened information effort so that relatives know where to go and complain. So initiatives have been set in motion which, in the long run, meet the wishes expressed by the Danish People's Party in their motion for a resolution. However, and this is important, we on the Left recognise that there is a long way to go before we are in the goal before all the elderly experience dignified, caring and empathetic care and care. Here the government must come out of the pits and call for broad negotiations; it can only go too slowly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175217	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175220	Thanks for the speech. I am well aware that we have set aside something in the rate pools in relation to compulsory supervision and to strengthen the Elders' Supervisory Authority, but it is not permanent it is not permanent. It's still gone for a few years now. This is exactly what the Danish People's Party fought for in that agreement, so it was precisely to strengthen this. And it is also part of the resolution to make it permanent. But what I would like to hear about is precisely that many of the employees are • that's why, in relation to national standards, we want minimum ratings • that should take care of perhaps 43, 45 people on a night shift. Studies have also been carried out on this. And it is not for the benefit of the staff, you might say, but it is certainly not for the benefit of residents, including those who are demented, who can often be door-seeking. So what's left thinking? I think it was a fine speech, but is there anything that the Left could be involved in in relation to this motion for a resolution? Will the Left be involved in an old law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175333	The first part I think Karina Adsbøl must take with our older rapporteur in relation to agreements and what is permanent or not. I'm not inside that for good reasons. However, I can say so much as that we in the Left have put a great deal of emphasis on the area of the elderly, because we can see and have seen the past for a while that there have been too many cases of this where the elderly have been treated quite unfairly. And that is why we are also in favour of several of the proposals in the motion for a resolution. Minimum standards are one of the things we cannot meet. Now there are also some things in relation to the financing part that are a little doubtful. But the thoughts are good; the intentions are good. And I know that Mrs Karina Adsbøl is very concerned about this area. So does our older rapporteur, Mrs Jane Heitmann. So I am quite convinced that you two can easily find each other on several points, among others. in relation to the board of nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175422	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175423	It is true, however, that what the rapporteur of the Left says is that we have something going on together in relation to boards in nursing homes, and I look forward to discussing this in the Chamber. But it was also something that could be included in an old law. The licensing system, which we have been debating, also during the previous debate, was also something that could be included in an older law. The fact that care is not included in the Service Act was something that could be included in an Older Law. Well, there are several elements. So you could create a very good old law for our older fellow citizens. So how far will the Left go?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175501	On the subject of authorisation, I would like to say that we were actually in favour of this in the previous motion for a resolution. What I was just emphasising was that we would like to have an evaluation of the system on social legislation and then we would have to take it there afterwards. As I also mentioned in the speech, it is quite crucial for the Left that, when we speak of dignity in the area of the elderly, we also clarify what we have in terms of expectations of staff and management and that we have a look at how we can make a real change in culture in this area. This is not so much a discussion about funds or no funds, because I agree with what the rapporteur asked about the previous question, namely that there are some places where you are too heavily hung up and that there are some places where there is millimeter democracy. And it is not fair to stand and tell people that they need 10 minutes, 15 minutes by the individual citizen in no way. So there are plenty of places where the Danish People's Party and the Left can go hand in hand with this, so that we ensure better and more dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175549	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175550	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I think the rapporteur helped to draw the picture that there were no challenges in terms of standards in the care sector, i.e. that there was always enough staff. There we have seen before in studies from the FOA that up to one in four FOA members have experienced having to leave a citizen who has been caring because you have been alone at work. We have also been able to see how in some municipalities 1 employed to 34 residents on a night shift. Well, we just have to imagine that there can be both a citizen who is door-seeking and, at the same time, someone who needs to change the diaper where to make that assessment. So, is it the rapporteur's view that there is no question that we also lack resources, that is, staff resources, in the care of the elderly in order to have a well-functioning care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175644	It's both and... Now I didn't reveal it during my speech, but I myself worked in a nursing home many years ago. In fact, what was characteristic of this has now been many years ago, and many things have happened since both good and bad, you might say that it was there with a need for some flexibility. I mean, there were some times when there was a high peak load and when I wondered that we were only two people at this time with quite a lot of residents, although I don't remember how many it was; I don't want to settle on that. And then there were other times when it looked quite different. Then I also went and worked with some who were fucking clever and walked the extra mile, and if there was room and time for it, you went straight to the kitchen and baked with some of the others. But then there were some of the others who went out and sat down and smoked, and then they dragged one of the residents out and used it as an excuse, so that one had to take the person out to smoke, for then it was legitimate that one sat out there all the time; and then one went in and picked up some of the people's ice cream and took them out to dinner, while the residents could sit inside and hump. Summa summarum needs a strong cultural change in this area, and we also need to recognise and value the employees who actually go the extra mile. And then there are some places, and I also said this in relation to Mrs Karina Adsbøl's question, where it is quite horrible that you make such a millimetre democracy that people have to stand firm at times to a degree, so they have to leave a citizen, that is to say, because you do not otherwise achieve everything you have to do in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175759	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175801	But then I just want to ask, now that one in four FOA employees is experiencing that they have had to leave a caring citizen because they have been alone at work. Is that such an expression that there is a bad culture among a quarter of FOA members? Or is it evidence that there is also a structural problem here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175822	But again it's both-and-so. Sir. Peder Hvelplund will probably find some examples where, if you dig deeper into it, it is a lazy and rotten culture that is crucial. There are also many other examples where it is quite the opposite, that is, where there are employees who work their butts out of their pants and yet do not get that recognition and yet are not allowed to have the extra time to provide the care they want for everything in the world. So I'd say it's both-and if we dig into the numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175851	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. I'm just gonna have to wash off a little bit with a rag, so that's fine. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113175923	Thank you. Last week, the Alzheimer's Association published a report on phone calls to the association's telephone line, and that is shocking reading. The main conclusion of their report is that there are so many examples of lack of health care and serious failure in the basic care and care of persons in nursing homes that it resembles a pattern of systematic failure to some of the most vulnerable and sick patients in the Danish health service that conditions in too many nursing homes in Denmark are not only unworthy, but also directly dangerous to health and pose a serious risk to the lives and health of dementia patients; that relatives particularly point to the lack of professionalism of the staff as the main cause of the many problems of care failure and poor health care. And the problems of lack of professionalism have become significantly more acute in recent years. The complaints, which the Alzheimer's Association has noted, are, after all, important evidence, which is basically a huge declaration of bankruptcy, because we are unable to ensure a vital quality in the care and care of too many seriously ill patients and elderly citizens living in nursing homes. And I'd like to read out a quote from the report: "Woman whose mother lives in foster home. The daughter finds that the mother is betrayed and does not get the help she needs. 14 days ago the mother was very ill when her daughter came to visit, and she asked the staff if they would call the doctor. The staff felt that the mother should just go into her bed and that it was a pity for her to go to the hospital. The daughter called the medical officer herself, who came out and was very upset that the staff had not called. The mother was hospitalized. She had pneumonia and the upper lung collapsed. They found old bread in the mother's mouth. She was in the hospital for 11 days. • This is a note from a conversation on the Dementia line, and the broadcast • Care homes behind the façade • are clearly on the retina. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that action is needed now. We have therefore drawn up a draft law on the elderly which will help to ensure that older citizens receive dignified treatment, care and direct influence on their daily lives. The law on the elderly must include, among other things: This is an experimental scheme, as I said earlier, and we of course believe that it should be made permanent. While making supervision permanent, there is also a need to increase the number of unannounced inspections, also to ensure that as many entities as possible are visited by the supervision. We also believe there is a need for a direct line, for some of what we also saw in the care homes behind the façade was that relatives asked for a direct line, because they did not feel that they were like being heard when they addressed the municipality, so a direct hotline to the Board of Patient Safety, which of course can be used by relatives, but also by employees if they experience an elderly citizen experiencing care failure. The right of care is not specifically enshrined in Article 83 of the Services Act. However, recent revelations in the area of the elderly confirm precisely the need for legislation to include a real right of care for the elderly. With the introduction of a genuine right of care, the elderly are also able to react if it is found that the citizen does not receive the care to which he or she is entitled or is subjected to neglect of care. Older citizens must be involved in their own lives and help control their lives. This also applies in cases where the elderly citizen suffers from dementia and may only be able to make decisions in some cases. After all, the rock card system is a good example of a good system in which the elderly citizen can choose for himself what the extra aid to which he or she is entitled should be used. It may be a trip to the hairdresser, a bike ride or an extra bath or other. Several municipalities have unfortunately chosen to abolish the cutting-card system, which is why we in the Danish People's Party also believe that the cutting-card system should be regulated by law. That is why we have looked very much forward to today's debate, in other words to ensure that we hope that we can get support for an older law. And I just want to say that this proposal hasn't been cut into granite. We can put everything we want into an old law. So I look forward to the remaining debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180416	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180419	Thank you. I hear all the initiatives that lie in this. The elderly must be guaranteed both dignified treatment and presence and care and direct influence on their daily lives. Is it the view of the Danish People's Party that this is something that could be guaranteed for 145 million? kr.? Well, we'll be able to lift it for 1.5 million. kr. per the municipality, so that we can give minimum ratings, get the clipboard scheme into the Service Act? Is that something that could be done for 1.5 million? kr. per Municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180452	I think that Mr. Peder Hvelplund had to read the last lines again. It says that it must be financed by avoiding non-Western immigration, and then there is an example in relation to it with Danish education. I know, sir. Peder Hvelplund has been a little absent, but that is actually what has been said in the debate today. Well, we know what non-Western immigration costs... it's 33 billion. kr. Every year? And in the Danish People's Party, we are totally willing to give priority to this area. So we believe that there are means to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180532	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180533	Well, I can assure Mrs Karina Adsbøl that I have not been absent from the debate. It may then be that Mrs Karina Adsbøl has been absent from the public debate, because on the question of whether non-western immigration costs 33 billion. It can be said that it only does so if it is the case that costs of coastal protection, civil servants' pensions and defence are included, i.e. an idea that if non-western immigration did not exist, then we would not have that expenditure. So it's some numbers that's blown up. The real figure is perhaps 6 billion. kr., and that may even be doubtful. So starting to find finance in this way is probably a pretty uncertain way to have to do it, and at least it won't be anything that Enhedslisten will be able to back up around. But I don't see any other funding in relation to this. That is the only concrete example of funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180616	As far as money is concerned, there is enough to take off. It has been written several times on the Ministry of Finance's website what non-Western immigration costs. Now I know that Enhedslisten thinks that you will also pay for their Danish education. We do not think so in the Danish People's Party. We think that we should ensure good and dignified care for the elderly. But let's say that Enhedslisten wants another way, as far as this funding is concerned, of what kind of funding the Enhedslisten would like to point out to ensure better care and care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180651	Thank you to the rapporteur. We'll move on in the series of speeches. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180709	Thank you very much. So, yes, thank you once again to the Danish People's Party for making an incredibly sympathetic proposal. I believe that we all share the desire to help our older fellow citizens more than we do today. That is true of all my fellow Members in this Chamber. That is why it is also gratifying that the area of elderly people should be given priority in the financial law that has just been adopted, just as in my short time here at Christiansborg I have been involved in a number of other agreements that strengthen the area. After all, the funds allocated to the Finance Act must be spent on more time in care and care, in raising the quality of care and in ensuring an increased focus on professionalism. But there are still major challenges. However, I do not agree that the solution is an old law which is being proposed here. We in the Radical Left, perhaps not so surprisingly, cannot support the funding proposals that are being pointed out, and especially not the Danish educational fees for foreign workers. It is also a whole series of demands for very specific measures that will be subject to detailed management to a degree that we in the Radical Left cannot support. There must be room and confidence for local solutions to vary. I also believe that the problems in the area of the elderly are complex and that several of them are not just about the elderly, but also about other groups, and that the solution must therefore be found in different areas. That is why we would rather take part in the negotiations on a new health agreement which, according to the Prime Minister, will start here this year. The very heartbreaking cases, which have been mentioned by several rapporteurs, are very much evidence of the need for a change in culture in large parts of our care for the elderly. Those problems are not solved by simply adopting a new law. There is already a requirement for the elderly to have the necessary care. After all, we have just reached an agreement to provide three municipalities with a free framework to take advantage of their offer in the area of the elderly. Here, too, I look forward to seeing what experience and good ideas are coming forward, and they can benefit all municipalities. Mrs Karina Adsbøl has mentioned several times that the Danish People's Party wants action now and that is why it is also to be welcomed by the rapporteur that the Finance Act is setting aside funds for this area right now. It is a step along the way, but it is not the whole solution. So in the Radical Left we have sympathy for the purpose of the proposal, but we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180951	Thank you for that, and then we have Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113180953	Thank you. I am not surprised that the Radicals do not support the funding. However, I would like to ask about the welfare agreements. I really think it is a little strange to call them welfare agreements, because can the rapporteur not confirm that older rights are actually being deprived of with the welfare agreements made in the municipalities? They are deprived of the right to choose their own accommodation. You deprive them of the right to choose a helper yourself. They are being deprived of rights that they actually have today in the welfare agreement that the Radicals have concluded with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181040	Thank you for the question. No, that is only the case if the individual municipality chooses to use it. What lies in the welfare agreement here is that the municipalities are freed in the areas in which the municipalities choose to set themselves free. A municipality can easily choose to run the full status quo in the coming years, if that is what you want. This will, of course, be contrary to the whole spirit, and I also find it difficult to imagine that this will happen, but there is nothing in the agreement that requires the municipalities to behave in a certain way. It is true that a municipality can choose to remove some of the offers that we are taking for granted in each municipality today, but that is the whole intention. We must have confidence that these municipalities want to strengthen their area of elderly people. We must have confidence that they want to do as well as possible for their citizens, and in the end it is the municipality that is accountable to their constituents when the time comes. So I am confident that the three municipalities which this is all about will, of course, do their best to improve quality in the way they think best, and then we will have to take the experience they are doing further in the work in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181139	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181141	It is good that the Radicals have confidence. I also feel that trust is at least something to be earned, and I am of course concerned when we see the massive failure of care that has taken place in various places in Denmark in the area of the elderly. But can the rapporteur not confirm that the municipalities can choose to deprive elderly people of the rights they have today, in other words the right to choose where they want to live, and the right to choose their own helper, in other words that in several areas this is what can actually happen in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181216	That's right. This could, in principle, happen if a municipality chooses to put their older citizens worse off than they are today; if they think that this is a good way of exploiting the framework that they have been given, they can in principle do so. I have no reason to doubt the three municipalities which have been given free rein here that they will do the best they can. I have not heard that any of them have done terrible things in the area of the elderly. I am confident that they will do the best they can within the framework they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181244	That's it, thanks for that. We just need to clean up a little bit, and then a new rapporteur is ready. We'll skip the SF, I see, but then we'll move on to mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181307	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution here, and I would also say that the Enhedslisten will not support it, and we do so not only for the reason that the funding found for this proposal is totally unacceptable. In other words, it is about making savings in the area of foreigners, and we certainly do not think this is something we should do in order to provide funds for our welfare society. When we look at the content of the proposal, there are some positive elements, for example. the question of including social care in the Service Act, that is, that what we call the rock card system is written in as a right. In other words, we could support this, because it is also a requirement we have made in the past and tried to insert. I also think that there are some positive ideas about the issue of minimum standards in care for the elderly, but we are just now facing a huge recruitment challenge to ensure that there are enough staff, which is why this is one of the areas we also need to look at. There may be some difficulties because it may be very different from the care center to the care center, but we are certainly open to that. However, I think that the most problematic aspect of the proposal, when I look at the content in this way, is that it bears too much emphasis on toasting and has very little concrete content in terms of how we actually lift this area. Apart from the fact that funding has been found in a totally unacceptable place, we cannot lift the care of the elderly for 145 million. kr., which is the only point that has been made here. This requires much more targeted action and more ambitious action. That is why I am also pleased that, after the change of government, we have had two economic agreements with municipalities and regions that have by no means been flashy. The last agreement here we did not actually vote in favour of in the Enhedslisten, but we must recognise that the task is to cover the demographic features, that is to say, that expenditure is accompanied by the increasing number of elderly people. This was not a characteristic of previous governments' economic agreements. In addition, we have added to the financial laws that have been adopted. So, with the latest Finance Act here, it was a clear demand on the part of the Enhedslisten that we were given additional funds for the elderly area, and there we also got a boost of half a billion kroner, which, of course, is one of them. will be used to solve both the task of securing more staff, but also to ensure a quality and competence boost, in other words to ensure that we have more trained staff. And that is the kind of effort that is needed, namely that we constantly ensure that funds are included for the increasing number of older people, but that we also add a further boost. And that is not something we are just doing by saying that we should then adopt an old people's law. I also think it is a little uncertain about an old-age law. In fact, I can share the concern that has been raised, namely that we should not just start making special laws for different areas. I am actually more concerned about the fact that we are getting a general increase in the whole welfare area, because we should not start to say that it is children rather than the elderly or anything else. So I really think that this is more about ensuring that we also have minimum rights in the area of the elderly, and that could be done, among other things. social care is included in the Services Act. But, as I said, we have also helped to give a boost. We have also been willing to find funding. We can easily do that without having to kick some of those who have least in advance. We can easily find the funding from those who have also received a large amount of tax relief under the previous government, i.e. around 20 billion. kr., which was given tax relief primarily to the best-off. So, of course, we can find funding to ensure proper welfare, including for the elderly. So with those words, I can just say that the Enhedslisten does not support this resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181749	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181751	It is of course a pity that Enhedslisten does not do so. However, I would like to read out from the motion for a resolution on the economic consequences: the Older Law, which aims to ensure a decent and secure life for the elderly, is financed by savings in the field of foreigners, including the reintroduction of the Danish education allowance for foreign workers. So that's more than the 145 million. kr. mentioned in the proposal. It's just something that's part of the funding. Well, we can't agree on that, but I would really like to ask Peder Hvelplund: how much is the service level raised in the municipalities? The government and Enhedslisten say that there has been a significant boost. We can measure that at the service level. Has it gone up? Are the elderly getting better care and treatment? Well, we just haven't seen any examples of that at all. What we see, unfortunately, is a number of examples of neglect in our care for the elderly and unfortunately also in a number of nursing homes. So how much is the service level raised? How can Niels feel that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113181905	It is quite true that there has not yet been a significant boost, but we have, in turn, stopped the fallout. We've stopped the deterioration. What was the consequence of the policy of the previous government and the economic agreements that were made there was, of course, that sufficient funds were not being used. Then we could easily come behind and make all the agreements on dignity billions and older billions, but if at the same time we were to undermine the municipalities' funding base so that they were simply used to cover the gaps created by the savings imposed on the municipalities, that did not help much. I recognise that there has not yet been a significant boost, but we have ensured that the funds now follow with the increasing number of elderly people, and we have added additional funds. This is what makes it possible to go out and employ 1,000 more people in the care of the elderly in the municipalities. It's not a significant boost, but it's better than it was last year. So it is a boost, and it helps both to ensure that we get more hands out there, but also that we get an education boost so that the unskilled who are out there actually get a skilled training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182010	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182011	In the Danish People's Party we also got 0.5 billion. kr. to extra warm hands every year forward. So I sometimes find it a little difficult to assess what is new warm hands and what funds have been set aside for the previous financial laws. But I really would like to hold on to something. The Enhedslisten then supports the clipboard scheme and that with care, so we must be able to change it in, for example. a draft of a report or something else, then, where we can agree. Because I am well aware that unfortunately we do not have 90 mandates for this. That would be fine. Then I just want to say, sir. Peder Hvelplund, that it is now the case that the current government and KL are negotiating economic agreements at all times. The Danish People's Party has then helped to drag the elderly area into the Finance Act when we have been in the support party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182101-2	With the funding available here, I am glad that Mrs Karina Adsbøl's party cannot secure 90 mandates for this resolution. But it is not quite true what is being said, because although it is the government that negotiates with the KL and makes the economic agreements, they have to go through the Finance Committee as an act in which the parties can vote in favour or against. And here last time, the Enhedslisten voted against because we did not think it was enough. The Danish People's Party did not do that at the time under the previous government, and that is exactly the difference between then and now. It was then that economic agreements were made which did not cover the cost of the increasing number of elderly people. That is why funds could be added to the Finance Act, but they would then only be used to cover gaps, and that is the big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182142	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182145	It was just a question that was raised by some of what the rapporteur said. The rapporteur says it here with the financing. It is, by the way, the Ministry of Finance's own figure of 33 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182211	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182212	Well, it isn't, and I don't know why you had to put that opposite. that you can only spend money on one side by finding it with the other. Of course, this is not the case. We would like to find funding from those who have the most, those who have received tax relief under the former bourgeois governments, and it is simply a question of making a redistribution in society and ensuring that the weakest in society can receive both proper care for the elderly and proper treatment if you come here because you are on the run from war or destruction. Then I would like to say something about the 33 billion. I should like to say that there is no question that when you get to that figure, it is because you include the cost of defence, of coastal protection, of a Great Belt bridge, of civil servants' pensions, and there is no one to tell me that if it were the case that we made sure that there were no non-western immigrants in Denmark, then we would not have those costs. Of course we would, and if we were to deduct those figures, we would end up with a figure of about 6 billion. kr., and that can even be discussed. For many of the immigrants who are here today also receive training and enter employment. So in the end, it might be a zero-sum game. But it is not the economy that has to decide. After all, it is also a question of us treating each other properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182333	No, it is not a zero-sum game, I simply have to say that. That is clear from the figures, and perhaps the Enhedslisten's rapporteur should read that out a little. It is certainly not a zero sum game; the figures speak quite clearly for themselves about who is an income and who is an expense. But that is simply saying that the rapporteur himself mentions several times in his reply to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, that the rapporteur cannot buy it here at all if it is between the priority of securing the elderly area or ensuring that otherwise unintegrable foreigners are allowed to get money. In new citizens, we are of the opinion that we must have a full ban on asylum. Many of those who have come here are, after all, some who have travelled through many safe countries, so they are migrants. These are not refugees, and we therefore believe that foreigners should support themselves. So I would just like to hear Enhedslisten, now Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself mentions it: Does Enhedslisten think it is more important to keep spending 33 billion. kr. A year on non-Western immigration? Or does Enhedslisten believe that it is really more important to prioritize the Danes who have contributed to our society through a long life? And, by the way, it is a question of allowing the Danes to keep more of their own money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182446	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182448	Thank you. Firstly, Mrs Mette Thiesen can, of course, with regard to the figure of 33 billion. kr., even go in to read the calculations that lie behind the figures, and no one disputes that you do the calculations. That includes the cost of all the fixed costs in society, and that is the way to reach the 33 billion. kr. A large proportion of the immigrants who are here today are, after all, those who get into employment and thus become an income. And no, I will never accept the premise that we cannot afford both refugees and to treat our elderly properly. We are a rich society and a lot of value is being created. When the previous governments have been able to afford tax relief for over 20 billion. kr., it shows that there are plenty of values in society, and so it also means that we can afford both to give our older people proper care and to receive properly the people who come here on the run and as a family couple. It is a totally unfair and false contradiction, New Citizens running, and I am well aware that that is what you make a living on, but it just doesn't make it any more right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182549	Thank you. There's no more questioners. So there is a new rapporteur to do that, and that is Mr. Per Larsen, after it's just been wiped off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113182615	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl for presenting this proposal and once again bringing the area of the elderly to a debate. Fortunately, in Denmark we have a very good elderly care in a lot of municipalities, in a lot of nursing homes and in a lot of private homes, where there are committed, empathetic staff who make an excellent effort and who make a great pleasure for the elderly. Unfortunately, however, we have also seen some terrible examples of something that we do not like to see at all. We have seen some television clips with something that at least gives rise to indignation throughout the country. Many of us have also read that in Jyllands-Posten some complaints have been sent around in relation to some atrocities that have occurred in the care of the elderly and in nursing homes. When one can see something that is very much to be described as neglect, as older people with chronic lying wounds, with urinary tract infections lasting for several months, then it is something that we simply cannot be served with at all, and that calls very much for some management and some insight from the management at the nursing homes in what is going on. Because it's a total failure when something like that can happen in today's Denmark. One of the major challenges we face in the area of the elderly is, unfortunately, to be able to attract enough and sufficiently skilled staff. This is a huge challenge, in which we really must take care to ensure that we have the necessary staff in the future. And that doesn't mean that you have to have some minimum standards. It is a persistent long, tough move to make it attractive to be in the care of the elderly, to ensure that you can attract staff with the right skills and with the right mental attitude, if you can put it that way, that is, someone who really wants the elderly and wants the care that needs to be given to the elderly, that they can have a dignified life, and that none of these situations arise that makes things turn in you when you see it. We must, of course, constantly strive to ensure that care for the elderly is as well-functioning as it is now possible to do within the framework we have. The worst must learn from the best, if you can put it that way. Fortunately, we have some really, really good examples of some nursing homes that are well-functioning and where the elderly are doing very well, where the word nursing homes naturally ends up in homes, because it has to be a home. It is a home for the elderly, and it has to be a nice place to be, and fortunately we have a lot of examples of them, and we have to ensure that everyone gets to the same level. But for us, it's about management, and it's also about this ongoing effort in terms of constantly attracting the talented staff and making sure we have enough staff for the care of the elderly. There are good intentions and good proposals in this and I have no doubt that it will come from a good heart when Mrs Adsbøl makes this proposal, but we will not vote for it. We are not in favour of minimum standards. We are again concerned that municipalities have the ability to prioritise their budgets and ensure that they also give priority to the elderly. Of course, we are also very much in favour of the cutting-card system and the freedom it offers. We are also concerned about the freedom things described in relation to free-care homes and freedom of choice at all, but tying it up to minimum standards, for example, is inappropriate, and that is at least one of the main reasons why we are going to vote against this proposal for an old-age law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183052	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183054	Thank you. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. I fully agree that this is of course also about management, i.e. visible management, a management that also comes by this weekend; a management that doesn't go home at 1 p.m. 15, but who knows what's going on. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur: if there were no minimum standards, could the Conservative People's Party support the rest of the proposal? So, in the Danish People's Party we have written it into the proposal, precisely because there has been a study that has shown that several employees go alone at night, among other things. with a number of residents to watch out for. And, of course, it is also important to ensure that employees have a better working environment; that, of course, they have some that they can call for, for example. their colleagues down at another time. But they just don't when they walk alone at night. Will the Conservative rapporteur answer: if there were no minimum standards that would guarantee more staff, could the Conservative People's Party support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183157	Well, as I also mentioned in my speech, there are many good elements in it. In other words, free choice in the area of home help and in nursing homes is one of the things that is also included in our party programme. We are also very positive about the rock map scheme. So it is clear that the biggest hurdle here is in relation to the minimum standards, which we think is a rigid way of managing the municipalities in detail, and which would certainly also be unbearable for some of the elderly; for then, as a municipality, one could just say that you have the norms in place, even if you may have some elderly people who have a weight in terms of care, which means that they are not taken care of well enough, whereas then there are some who may be a little easier if that can be said, and who may not require so much care and care, and who get what is in the law, but there may well be some who get too little. Of course, this freedom must be given to the municipalities to be able to direct and distribute what is now needed, so that all the elderly are given the care they are now going to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183308	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183310	In other words, minimum standards are in order to ensure a bottom, and to ensure that the elderly area does not have to struggle with the children's area, where minimum standards have been set in relation to educators. But I am here in the Folketing to get things through, so I would like to hear from the Conservative People's Party about this, if you put forward a proposal to incorporate the clipboard scheme into the legislation and something with care and free choice, then that is something Conservatives could support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183342	Well, that is certainly some of the things that we also look at very positively. That would be the kind of thing I would be able to bring back to my group and then we could discuss it if there were any changes. But it is clear that the minimum standards are, of course, to tie the municipalities up to something that we think is inappropriate. Whether it is in the area of children, the elderly or any other area, we do not like minimum standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183411	Thank you. Then we move on to the next, which is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183435	I have heard Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party refer to the Older People's Act several times, and it is a result of a deep frustration about the present state of things in the area of the elderly, and I share that frustration and I fully share that concern. In Denmark we have the world's highest tax burden, but it is certainly not everywhere where we have an elderly care that matches what we actually pay for it. The whole structure is wrong and more money out in the municipalities will not necessarily solve anything. The motion for a resolution here says that all elderly people must be treated with dignity, and I fully agree with that. Those who have helped build up our country must be guaranteed a dignified old age, with security, closeness, warmth and care. Unfortunately, that is not what we have seen in the past for a long time. On the contrary, we have seen examples of stunned behavior towards some of those in our society who most need our help, and we simply cannot be aware of this. But we cannot support minimum standards in the care of the elderly. It is not because we do not think there should be good standards, people enough, but it is simply because we do not believe that minimum standards are the right solution. More government control is not the way we want to go. In the case of Else, there were three people looking at Else suffering and being humiliated. They were three in one, but the treatment of the elderly woman with dementia was horrifying and devoid of empathy and dignity. As far as supervision is concerned, we agree that supervision needs to be better, but proper supervision needs to be carried out, which can examine both the economy, the care of the elderly and much more. And it must be exactly the same thing that needs to be investigated for private and public offers. It is not today where municipal care centres and home care can put their finances into the large municipal budget and where it is really difficult to calculate an exact price for a nursing home. It needs to be changed. In New Citizens we share the burning ambition to secure the older Danes who have helped build our society. They must be able to live a dignified old age in a nursing home they choose. The money isn't just to be channeled into the county coffers. You must follow the individual elderly. This gives them a real free choice, and good nursing homes will be chosen for, bad will be chosen from. The individual nursing homes must be free and have the opportunity to hire and guys as they wish. Bad employees shouldn't just be replaced by local authorities. We want far more free nursing homes. There are shorter ones from the good idea to concrete actions. Basically, the good care of the elderly and the good nursing homes grow up from below because of fire souls. They are therefore not born in a municipal council or in a municipal administration. We share the burning ambition to ensure dignified care for the elderly. We simply do not agree that, with all the elements here, we are going the right way, and therefore we cannot support the resolution as it stands. But I have to finish by saying that I very much welcome the good cooperation we have with the Danish People's Party to ensure Danish elderly people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183803	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183804	Thank you. But I am a little disappointed in that, because I had the impression that Mrs Mette Thiesen usually supports the resolutions I put forward in the Chamber. And now it is a question of creating an old-age law, so that we can at least ensure legislation on our intentions that older people should have the best and most dignified treatment possible and that we can ensure that they have the care they need. And then New Citizens choose to vote against this proposal. I must say that I am deeply surprised by that. How is it practical, in addition to the free choice which New Citizens often mention, that it will then ensure that the elderly receive good and dignified and caring treatment? This isn't just about nursing homes. We also have a home care. The care and care sectors are large. New citizens say that it is not about more funds either. It may be that it will be a little difficult with the economic policy that New Citizens are leading in relation to this, to ensure proper welfare. But what does New Citizens want?
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183922	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113183923	Thank you so much. It is always a wonderful opportunity to be asked about it so that you can tell about your own policy. As the rapporteur quite rightly starts by saying, we actually vote in favour of a great many of the proposals put forward by the Danish People's Party, because we basically agree with a great many of those things. We have among other things. just backed this up with the fact that you must of course have a clean record if you are to be employed in relation to some of the most vulnerable. But the whole idea of minimum standards, where the state goes in and decides x number of employees in each place, is not the way we want to go. What we want is to set the individual offers free and like to let them build something up. I must be completely honest and say that I myself have been employed as a school teacher in a primary school for very, very many years, and if there is something that can demotivate people, then it is that everything is controlled from above. That's why I'm here, too. from the start has been against the reform of primary schools, because it is a question of going down a path where the individual is deprived of the effort he or she would like to make. Eventually, it just doesn't matter a bit. What we want to make sure is that we get rid of the stumbled vessels. We also think that there are some challenges in terms of recruitment that have been talked about before, and we will let the money follow the individual elderly. Then we will ensure much more free-care homes and more free choice, and then we basically believe that the good offer, as I said, is from the bottom up. That is exactly what I said in my speech, because we have a development in the fact that we are getting older. People are getting older, and that is why we are also saying this about the money having to follow the individual. Because this whole thing about just channeling the money out into the town hall, we don't believe in it. After all, we have just seen the example of minimum standards in the area of children, where we can actually see that a fairly large percentage of that money goes to administration. That's not the way it's supposed to go. It has to go to the elderly. After all, it has to be possible for them to get a proper offer, whether it is some home care or it is a nursing home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113184118	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113184120	Thank you. I just don't think I got the full answer. Because I fully understand that New Citizens want free elections, but here we are also talking about rights, in other words rights for the elderly to choose freely. It's the rock card scheme. The motion for a resolution states that care should be taken into account in the legislation. That is not in the legislation today. It is not stated in Section 83 of the Services Act that elderly people are entitled to care. So in addition to the free choice, how will you ensure it? When we talk about minimum standards, we're talking about a bottom. I think that New Citizens may agree with the Danish People's Party that no night watchman should go alone with 40 residents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113184159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113184200	We fully agree with that, and it is also just a classic example of incredibly poor management. And as the rapporteur himself mentioned earlier, there have been examples of management where there is simply a leader who goes home at 1 p.m. 15, and then it all sails. There may be one or two poor employees at work who will be responsible for all these older people, some of whom, as has also been mentioned, are door-seeking or who in other ways need some to be watching them as well. So, no, that's obviously not okay. That is why we want to ensure that we have more free homes, for example, because that is also where we have a freer framework to have a management that is close to us; a management that can hire and guys; a management that can be close and so on. Unfortunately, the road we have been going through for many years is the opposite, and now I mentioned myself that I had experienced it in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113184246	Thank you. Then there are no more rapporteurs. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113184310	Thank you. It is good to see that the Minister can come to terms with his position and listen carefully to what the Danish People's Party's older rapporteur says. The Minister for Health and the Elderly Of course). Good. First of all, thank you for the debate. What we are witnessing in several places in relation to our older people is simply unacceptable and I cannot stand it. I cannot stand to see more older citizens being abandoned by what is called a welfare society. It is heartbreaking, and it is unacceptable, and it is not a society worthy of our dignity, and we need to act, Minister. That is why the Danish People's Party makes a good, constructive proposal for an older law and, as I said earlier in the debate, it can contain everything. It may also contain the proposals that we have previously examined concerning the licensing law. As I said earlier, our proposal is not chiseled in granite. But there's something that puzzles me. After we have witnessed the TV 2 documentary, where we have witnessed, among other things. Niels from Randers, who lives at the nursing home Huset Nyvang, has the Board for Patient Safety been at the nursing home in October • Listen carefully, Minister; I think the Minister is familiar with this and how many criticisms have been made despite the recordings just found there? This means that we have seen this cruel documentary, and yet we can only see that the conditions in the nursing home have not been rectified, that they have not acted on it. I think that's so awful. I think it's really good that, among other things... The Elders Case and the Alzheimer's Association have brought a number of things to our attention. The Alzheimer's Association has among other things. written for all of us, and I quote: In 2021 we have the opportunity to change course and tackle the root of nettle. The poor quality of health care for patients living in nursing homes is a common task. As members of the Danish Parliament, you have a part of the responsibility for the Danish health service • the regions, the municipalities, the patient associations, the professional organisations and other associations. Together we can make the difference for the many thousands of nursing home residents and raise the quality of care, care and care in nursing homes, but this presupposes that nursing homes become an equal and integral part of a coherent health care system that puts health care quality in focus, including in nursing homes. I agree. Instead of cross-party accusations, we need to sit down together and find some viable solutions, we simply cannot be otherwise familiar. I am well aware that there are many skilled workers in the care and care sector, and I am also well aware that there are also some very good nursing homes, and thank God for that. But what we are witnessing is unacceptable, and carelessness must and must not be accepted. That is why I hope that at least some constructive negotiations can come out of this motion for a resolution. In the Danish People's Party we have now tabled a number of resolutions in the area of the elderly, including that employees should of course be able to speak Danish. We have put forward proposals for obtaining public criminal records, and we have put forward the proposal for an elderly law here. We think action is needed and we think action is needed now. I can only note that we in the Danish People's Party do not have 90 mandates behind this proposal, but the fight does not end here, and you who know me well as rapporteur also know that I can be a small terrier, so I will bite myself, so it may well be that this proposal will sometimes be retabled in the Parliamentary Chamber. But at some point there are 90 mandates and then you get something through. But in any case, I would like to thank you for today's debate, and then I look forward to inviting us to some negotiations at some point by the Minister for the Elderly, whom I regret to say I have been missing. I think I have lacked an elderly minister, and I have also called for the presence of the older minister many times, but now it may be that the older minister is finally inviting us to negotiations, and in the Danish People's Party we are at least ready. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113184819	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors of the Danish People's Party. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210113184837	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, January 14, 2021. 10:00.
