ParlaMint-DK_20210827110001	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110009	The item entered as item 1 on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110017	A vote shall be taken in favour of paragraph 4 of the agenda and, as you know, a three-quarters majority shall be required for such consent and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 82 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA, KD, Orla Østerby (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), against 18 (DF, EL, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. That is what has been decided.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110103	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten, does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110121	Dear nurses! Thank you for putting equal pay on the agenda and creating a greater momentum than ever on that agenda. Thank you for defending our health care. Dear sosus and cleaning assistants and midwives, physiotherapists, educators, ergotherapists and many, many more! You're worth more. There are no winners in this situation. That is what the Minister for Employment said on the platform here yesterday. Unfortunately, I can agree with him on that. There's only losers. What the Minister forgot to say was that it was himself and the rest of the government who decided with open eyes that it should be that way. After all, the losers are the nurses and all the other public servants who do not receive equal pay or anything similar in this case. But the losers are also at risk of being all of us, because we run the risk of this equal pay crisis turning into a welfare crisis in which we cannot attract and maintain skilled employees in the public sector. But the minister and the government actually had a choice. It could have taken responsibility and started a long-awaited solution to equal pay and welfare problems together with Enhedslisten, along with SF and Dansk Folkeparti, who have been ready to set aside money for a real solution for many, many weeks. We've been yelling and yelling, but you've been silent like the grave. Since the day before yesterday you announced your intervention, we have been trying to push you into meetings, here in the Chamber, in consultation, to let the money go with the pay structure committee that is now coming, but not so much as a small commitment that there is actually money if the committee says what we are all predicting: that there is a lack of money for equal pay, we have been given. But money must be found, dear government. Otherwise, we risk this turning into a bomb under our welfare societies. After all, we already need nurses, sosus, midwives, and now we run the risk of this problem getting much, much bigger. Why don't you give them a commitment that there'll be money? The alternative will be far, far more expensive for all of us. I would like to finish by saying to all of you who have struck, made or signed citizens' proposals, fought or backed up on the sidelines, waved from bike paths, handed out flyers, written discussion posts, shared your stories or your payrolls in public: Jeres struggle and commitment has been absolutely priceless. You have put the fight for equal pay on the agenda and created more momentum than ever. You have started a movement that cannot be stopped by a rapid legislative action. The next step is not to go home; it is to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110529	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110532	Thank you. It is, after all, a great deal of this, with a bomb under the welfare society and a potential welfare crisis that we are facing. However, I would like to agree with Mrs Mai Villadsen that, of course, higher wages mean something in relation to the desire to work and also in relation to recruiting, maintaining and motivating employees. It matters, it does in general in society. If, for example, cash benefits are too high, it means something in relation to the motivation to take a job. I hope that when Enhedslisten can see it with the public employees that it can also be seen in other areas. I have said earlier today that it would be a good idea to lower taxes at the bottom of all those who go to work, including for nurses, but that is also the case at the top, and I would really like to know if Enhedslisten agrees with that. There are thousands of nurses paying top taxes today, and there will be even more nurses paying top taxes with this agreement, and if you follow Enhedslisten's policy, there will be even more nurses paying top taxes. So I just want to hear: is the top tax a bomb under the Danish welfare society according to Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110630	No, I certainly do not think it is; in fact, I think it is a prerequisite. I think it is very good that those who earn the most also contribute most to our welfare societies. In relation to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's proposal to lower taxes at the bottom or for those who earn the most, we support the Enhedslisten and have done so for years. We simply believe that those at the top should pay more and thus finance it. Because I fully agree with Mr. Jacob Mark, in view of the fact that my fear will be that some parties would want to finance it by cutting even more in the welfare of the people with disabilities, in norms and much else, as was mentioned earlier from this platform. I don't want to risk it. Then I would also like to say one last thing in relation to the point. What we're discussing is equal pay. No matter if you give all people a million more, it won't make up for the pay gap. Therefore, a special pool must be given to the professions affected in the field of equal pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110735	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110736	I mean, it's not like you're having a hard time keeping nurses just because primary school teachers get higher salaries. So when Enhedslisten talks about us having a welfare crisis in terms of recruiting and maintaining employees, it must be because the pay paid is generally too low. But I think it's interesting in relation to this that we might be able to reach an agreement that the first DKK 7,000 you make every month should be tax-free. If we sit down together and look to find funding alone on anything other than the core welfare, it could be cold hands and bureaucracy and waste of money in the public sector... the Enhedslisten will actually be involved in it, or should
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110810	In the Enhedslisten, we fight for more equality in this society. That is why we also think that it is actually a point in itself that those who earn the most also contribute most to our welfare societies. But, of course, we are also ready to remove trouble and bureaucracy, as many parties say time and again. However, I would question whether, when I see various economic plans for parties, it can be found to such an extent. However, there is no doubt that nurses, whom we have been discussing for months now, are also subject to a whole lot of trouble and bureaucracy, and we can do better than that, but they also lack a fair pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110850	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827110858	Thank you for the floor, President. It's been a quick treatment of this procedure. Tuesday I met in Fredericia, where the government, the Prime Minister, had convened a major conference on the future of Denmark. There were two things I just noticed there. One was that there were no limits to how this welfare society was going to develop for the next 10 years, and for all the good things you wanted to do. The second point I noticed in connection with that conference was that the Prime Minister on his way to the conference was asked by all the striking nurses who stood out front, what was to happen, etc., also by journalists. There she firmly rejected a government intervention and said that it was part of the Danish model that one should be allowed to strike in relation to better conditions and things and matters. It wasn't something the government wanted to deal with. It was Tuesday of this week; there was a crucial part of the Danish model that the government did not intervene. Wednesday, the government chose, so to speak, to intervene. I have been somewhat provoked by the statement by the Minister for Employment that it is now such an integral part of the Danish model that action is taken. I mean, it's really been a little weird to see this week's different explanations from the government, when you don't intervene and when you take action. The thing is, it's because it's a really, really bad case, and the government knows that, of course. When you intervene like this, you know that you leave a lot of frustration, a mass demotivated employee. What becomes one of the greatest tasks, no matter where you have been in this conflict and in relation to this government intervention, is to discuss how, in relation to the public sector, with some of our core troops in the welfare society, the people of hospitals and the responsibility of our municipalities towards the elderly, etc. etc. ensure that the people who work there are motivated to go to work, are motivated to take the extra shift when the colleague is ill, and are motivated to work overtime when needed, in a situation where they feel they have just been driven over. This is really going to be the biggest challenge. We're in a situation where we get, it's 50-60 percent. more than 80 years for the next approx. 10 years. Many municipalities may experience a doubling of the number of 80+-year-olds, and we know that a great many of these 80+-year-olds need care and care, they need rehabilitation and they need people close to them and can help them. And it's really gonna be one of our core challenges for the next 10 years in this welfare society, so to find out: how do we make sure that there are enough people who will help these people? And you can't just replace these people with robots. Many of our companies are super skilled and have also shown it here in the coronate to automate and to increase their competitiveness, by actually getting a lot of things into companies that make you need fewer people. We have to say that this is the way it is. This makes companies competitive and enables us to keep production here in Denmark. Well, that's pretty good, isn't it? But I think most of us can see that we've got a picture on the retina that out in that nursing home or out in that hospital it's not like just putting in a robot and saying, "Get that straight." So there is a need for some people who help people and some warmth and some care. We call it warm hands and all these things, and we know that. But how do we get enough people to do that? It's already hard. Now it's gonna be harder with this procedure and with the demotivation that you put on a large staff group in our welfare community. So the government really has an obligation now to ensure that those fine words about the next 10 years from Tuesday at that Intergovernmental Conference can actually become reality with what the government is doing here. And one of the things that will, of course, be the fundamental debate that we will also have to have is that if we have the ambition in this Parliament that there are some groups in our welfare society that we cannot actually accept strike for better conditions, which are otherwise a prerequisite in the Danish model, where you can strike for better conditions • employers can lock out, but employees can strike for better conditions • then find another model where those people feel heard and respected. We tried to raise it in connection with our amendments. In relation to police officers and prison clerks, etc. I guess we didn't want all the prisons to just let the prisoners out all of a sudden, because all the prison officers said, "Now we don't want to work anymore." We probably didn't want the police to say, "Now we don't keep law and order, 'cause we're just going to go home and strike." But we also don't want the nurses to just go home and leave the patients at will. That is why they must, moreover, provide emergency preparedness at a certain level. We have also seen this through the strike, i.e. in many places you have actually had an emergency response that is the same or perhaps even better than the daily effort you have, you might sometimes think. But if we do not accept that they can strike for better conditions, then we have to find another model. And that is what we tried to do with our amendments, but that does not mean that this issue is not highly topical. And I think the government must be aware of that too, and it has also indicated that it can actually be seen. In other words, we must try to get a job going that solves things. Otherwise, we will just have a number of years in the same situation: there will be a conflict in an essential core area of our welfare society and the Folketing says that action will have to be taken. But if you know it is untenable, you have to try to work to find another model for it. It is certainly our hope in the Danish People's Party that this awareness is spreading. And even if we do not get a majority for it today, it may well be a seed that has been planted and is going to germinate, and then we can hope that it will turn out that there is a majority behind a new model at a later stage. Until then, we would just like to say to the people in our core welfare area out in hospitals and in our care for the elderly, etc., that we hope that you can overcome this and yet go to work and give it a shell, because you are simply necessary for us to make our good welfare community hang together. So thank you for the work you have
ParlaMint-DK_20210827111524	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go. No, it was a mistake, I see. Kristian Thulesen Dahl We took that yesterday in the debate. I would like to thank the rapporteur, but may I just ask the rapporteur to wipe it off, because the next rapporteur who has asked for the floor here at the third reading is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark. Kristian Thulesen Dahl Well, we're in the same bubble in this case, aren't we?). It could be that there was another message. Welcome to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827111553	The government and the majority of the parties will not set off the economy to meet the recommendations to create more equal pay in the public sector that the pay structure committee must make. That is clear after the second reading. The government will not commit itself to convening negotiations in order to meet the recommendations that the pay structure committee should make. That is clear after the second reading. The government will not even call all parties to see if it can agree on some of the recommendations made by the pay structure committee. That is clear after the second reading. In other words, what we can now wait for is for a pay structure committee to finish working despite the fact that we also had a pay committee but that the pay structure committee really has nothing to do with. We all know that if we're gonna change these high wages, it's gonna cost us. That is why the SF is voting against the bill that we are about to vote on here. I would also like to say to the nurses, educators, midwives, nutrition assistants, sosus and all the others that this has not been in vain. I think it has been extremely encouraging to see how important the professional struggle is still, because I am convinced that when we are going to discuss these in the Folketing again, and we are going to do so, it is going to move something. When I also come up here, it is because I now have the opportunity to say something that I really wanted to say even before I was elected to the Danish Parliament in 2013 and I fully understand what SF's responsibility was also in it, because we all have a responsibility for this: the Danish model in the public sector is dysfunctional, and we know it. We all know. We knew it was gonna end here. We knew this in 2013, because then there was a school reform that had to be funded, and it could not be done without the conflict ending in a certain way. You knew it, and that's why the teachers called it agreed game. And we knew it well this time too, because what both the nurses, but also the educators and the midwives and all the others demanded, was a showdown of a decades of unreasonableness and it costs too much money for the municipalities and the regions to be able to solve it themselves. So it was given in advance that it would end like this. The model is also dysfunctional because, contrary to the private sector, employers have an unfair advantage. If an employer here chooses to lockout the employees, then there may well be public pressure. I am in on that, but that is also the only thing that can happen, because the state saves money on it. We have not even committed ourselves to keeping that money in the field of welfare. So you can't win as a professional group. That is not fair, because then the Danish model will be something we play. So my call from here to the government must be to do what both the current Prime Minister and former Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen also said, namely that one simply has to look at why the Danish model is the most conflicting model we have in all of Scandinavia. Why do collective bargaining end more often as they have done here in our country than they do, for example. in Sweden and Norway. I understand that it is not simple and I agree that this should be discussed in depth with the people who are negotiating out there. I understand that this is not something that needs to be dictated from within the Folketing, but it is simply time we started looking at this, otherwise we would get conflict over and over again, and the employees who are out there are just thinking: it doesn't make sense; we all know that in practice it is the government we are negotiating with. So it's just a call: get that overhaul done, now set up the group that's gonna look at this model in the seams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827111948	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Minister of Employment. Welcome!
ParlaMint-DK_20210827112006	Thank you. It should not be called in such a serious situation as this one is that the government does not take it seriously. As I have stressed on several occasions in this process, we are truly sorry that it comes here. I myself have thought it all the way through this conflict that I considered it to be the role of all politicians to stay out of it as much as possible and that the parties had to resolve it themselves. However, since it was clear both that there was an increasing cost to both patients and our health services, which would only grow as the strike expanded, and, in fact, most of all, that both sides considered it to be a deadlocked situation, the government had no choice but to present to the parties of the Folketing to intervene in the conflict and bring it to an end. I fully share the words of Kristian Thulesen Dahl here at the third reading, and I also mentioned this the second day myself, and I would like to say again that we have heard and understood over the last nine weeks, and in fact were already aware that this is about much, much more than just a pay issue. It is about the fact that many nurses feel pressured during their working day, working life. It is about experiencing a poor working environment in some places, and it is also about what we ourselves chose to address, namely that for a number of years we have been underinvested in our healthcare system. All of this is the government's commitment to continue to try to rectify and continue to do so, because we fully agree that the employees we have out there in our welfare society who provide care to our elderly, to patients and all the places where it is we have a strong need for it are essential for the service to be provided. There are two things I would like to challenge that will be raised during the third reading here. One is the comparison with the teacher's conflict, as Mr. Jacob Mark's on the phone. So, under no circumstances can we compare this government's actions with the course of the teaching conflict. In this situation there has been an entirely legitimate conflict for one in many employee groups in the public sector, a group where representatives of that group have negotiated in two stages a result to which they have also recommended their members to vote in favour. They've been voted down. It is, of course, part of the process and it must be respected, but it has been a legitimate conflict between two parties in which all other public servants have voted in favour of their agreements. With this legal action, we are simply exalting the mediation sketch to law. There's nothing taken from the employee group. There is no change in the outcome of the negotiations that has been negotiated home. There will also be wage increases at the level of what all other public servants, both educators, sosu assistants and others, have negotiated home to themselves. This procedure is not comparable to the teacher's conflict. The second thing I would also like to challenge or, if nothing else, allow me to reply to is that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl wonders how the government can say one day that we reject an intervention, and the next day then do so. First of all, because we have always believed, stood up for, and indeed hoped, that the parties themselves would somehow achieve a negotiated solution or, if not, that one side would stretch arms to the other, because that is also part of the negotiation process. That is why we have thought all the way through that we did not want to intervene very much, but that is also true, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl laughed a little at the fact that it is also part of the Danish model in the utmost consequence that it is the parliament's opportunity and task to intervene if there is that a conflict runs so hard that it is insoluble and that it begins to have increasing social consequences. This was the conclusion that we have been following and considering for some time now, but which we reached on Wednesday of this week, and we also thank the parliamentary parties for both giving the opportunity to deal urgently with this bill, but also taking the action that we at least think is important, both so that health conditions can be restored and so that all parties can move forward. But there are no winners in this situation, as I have stressed several times myself. The government won't win anything. The public purses, I dare say, won't win anything if you had to sit with that conspiracy. The nurses' employers won't win anything at all. At least the patients haven't won, and the nurses haven't won anything from this strike either. That is why there is an obligation, which several people also mention, that we must, of course, move forward together, and that is something that has now been laid down. An important discussion has been raised about the Danish model in the public sector. I announced yesterday that this is something we take seriously, and we will also call the public sector partners to discuss where adjustments may be needed. After all, some adjustments have already been made by this government since we arrived at in 2019, but we would like to discuss this further. The second is, of course, the pay structure committee which the Danish Nursing Council and the regions have pointed out, at the joint request of the rest of the FH trade union movement itself, as an important, important step forward in the discussion which also lies below the whole, and which I agree with is important: the issue of wage differences, not only in the public sector, but in our labour market at all. All in all, this is a really, really unfortunate situation, and I also know that this is a really, really difficult decision for those parties that are about to activate legislative action. I am passionate about the labour market model we have in Denmark, and it is by its very nature a defeat when a government and politicians are forced to interfere and intervene in a legitimate conflict, but it is nevertheless the overall assessment that that was where we had reached. So again, thank you for the goodwill of the Danish Parliament for this urgent procedure. I would like to thank the majority for their willingness to help us resolve this conflict, which has gone into a stalemate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827112709	Thank you, Minister. I can say to Members that we have turned off the voting button, as there are some brief comments to the Minister. We shall, of course, call for votes when we consider that the time for voting is approaching. However, as I have said, there are a number of brief remarks • whose members wish to leave the Chamber, please do so very, very quietly, since the debate is in progress and the first is from Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827112740	After all, the minister repeats time and again, even now on the platform, that there are no winners in this situation. I agree with that. But it could have been different. One could at least have made a commitment from the government that money will actually follow with the pay structure committee if it turns out that it draws the conclusion that we have heard year after year: that there is no equal pay in the public sector. Something needs to be done about that, so I miss it so much to hear from the government. And the Minister has a unique chance to actually commit himself to it and not just make fine words, which, frankly, I fear again is just hot air. And the reason why it is so sad is that I actually see that we have a joint project to strengthen our welfare societies. We have set aside money for more nurses, sosu's and educators and many other professional groups because we think that the welfare society is important and must be strengthened and not cut as it has been for years. But the foundation will crumble if there are no employees to carry out all the important tasks. So will the Minister undertake that money will follow if the pay structure committee says they are missing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827112903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827112904	The rapporteur also asked me more or less the same question yesterday, and that gives me an opportunity to reply to it. The government undertakes that we must follow up on the analyses and conclusions that come out of the pay structure committee. But I also think it is too early to conclude that a certain amount is being set aside when we do not know what the challenge of the structures is actually in relation to the lack of equal pay. But I also think that one is guessing if one thinks that it is only going to point in the direction of Christiansborg or, what can one say, the public who has to put money on top of the framework. It may well be that there will be an answer, and we do not refuse to do so either. However, we will also analyse the demands made by certain groups of public servants and the way in which the demands are made. Is the nominal increase in wages being sought, is the percentage increase in wages tending primarily to reward those already paid? What, moreover, is the effect of the political choice to add some money to the regulatory framework? Will the regulation be put out of effect, and is it in the interests of public servants? And these are all the many questions together, which we believe and agree with both the Danish Nursing Council and the main organisation of the trade union movement, you must be elucidated and analysed and then point to some further steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113025	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113027	I am surprised, therefore, when members of the government and the Social Democratic Party suddenly think that we need to shed light and analyse and map again and again, when we from the very same party back in 2008 concluded that money is needed centrally from. The alternative is, of course, to redistribute within the framework, and then one has to take the view that the government thinks that police officers, teachers and others should obviously have less pay. We certainly do not think so in the Enhedslisten. And that is why I really do not have an indication from the Minister that if the parties, the Committee on the Structure of Earnings, point out that there is a lack of money, will they deliver from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113115	But Mrs Mai Villadsen: the framework is one of them. defined by how wage developments are also in the private labour market. Basically, that mechanism has served all the public employees very, very well throughout all the years in which it has existed. And where I think it is really really important that you keep your tongue politically straight in your mouth, is that if you propose that extra money be put in advance before you know the structure and consequences underneath that framework and that means that the regulation system and mechanism will lapse, then you have to be sure that this will not be a bad thing for the public employees in the long run. And I can't answer those questions. That's what we need the pay structure committee for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113159	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113202	Thank you to the Minister for both taking the floor and commenting on some of what I said in my speech here today. I would just like to address what the Minister says about part of the Danish model being this: that you can intervene on the part of the Danish Parliament, because the minister also says: when it is in the utmost consequence. So, the ultimate consequence is that the Folketing intervenes. I would really like to have the Minister's description of what makes you think you are in that situation now. There are plenty of Danes who have unfortunately had to experience having their treatments postponed, etc., but what exactly is it that the government has come to the conclusion that the definition of the ultimate consequence of the Danish model is that it is so critical now that the Folketing will have to intervene? It is, in fact, a definition which can be used in other contexts when, if necessary, there may be strikes at a future time affecting how it is done in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113302	Firstly, it is always based on a concrete assessment, and there are no similar conflicts. What is at the root of my assessment in this matter is a number of factors. Firstly, we are dealing with the longest conflict since the BT strike in the 1970s, as Mrs Jette Gottlieb told me earlier, and with all the reservations that I do not know whether there should have been one in the meantime that has lasted longer, I believe in Mrs Jette Gottlieb. The second point is, of course, that the parties themselves, including the strike party, have said: we believe it is pointless that we need Christiansborg to do something. Thirdly, there is, of course, the conflict that took place in 2008, which lasted eight weeks before it was that the striker himself went back to the negotiating table and relaxed some of his demands and ended up with an agreement. Now we're somewhere where we can see that it's not gonna happen. At the same time, of course, there are also the assessments which have been made by the Danish Health Authority, namely delayed operations and agreements on top of what has already been from the coronatide and the extensions planned, and together it has given me the conclusion that there was nothing but to ask the Danish Parliament to intervene.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113419	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113421	Thank you for your answer. If we take it first with the longest conflict, then what we are talking about here is that with the emergency response, which also lies in the way it has been, there have been areas that have in fact had difficulty in conflicting at all, because the emergency response has had to be there. I mean, the comparison with other conflicts, where you don't have a similar emergency response, maybe it's a little funny, isn't it? The other is the one with the parties themselves. Well, the parties themselves have in many ways spoken that they did not think they could reach an agreement long ago. It's nothing new. I know that there has been a game about the fact that we have just had the parties inside and had it confirmed, but that is something that we others have at least heard for a long time. And then I just want to do it quickly and the number to say that I would like the Minister to say whether he now has the opportunity to tell the Danish Parliament how many delayed treatments we are really talking about, which means that this has now reached a critical level of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113514	I am not in a position to give a clear answer to that last point. What has essentially been taken into account in addition to the fact that it is clear that patients suffer, and it has done so all the way through, is that there has also been a summer holiday which had already drank the activity into health care, and that activity is now increasing and therefore it will become a greater challenge. But, of course, the main argument is the lack of hope that a negotiated solution can be reached, and we had sincerely hoped that the parties could find each other in this situation. Then Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has said something right, which I hope he will also see me reply to in my introduction, namely that we, together with the public partners, are willing to discuss whether there is a need for adjustments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113556	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113600	Thank you. The minister said this conflict is not to compare with the teacher's conflict. I share the view that these are two completely different conflicts, but when I mentioned the teacher conflict, it is because I feel quite convinced that there are a large number of employees who rightly think that it does not make sense to enter into a conflict with KL or Danske Regions, because it is still the government that you have to negotiate with. During the teacher's conflict, it was known that the government had a goal of school reform, and here it was known that both the nurses and the other professional groups wanted to abolish the civil service reform required more than what KL and Danske Regions could deliver, and that is why it has stood still for several weeks, and we have all known that. At the same time, there is this problem, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentions that you really cannot strike, and at the same time there is the problem of the state earning money when you lockout the employees. So it's an unfair fight. That's what I'm talking about. Now the minister says that the government actually recognizes that you have to look at, but what does that mean? Does that mean you're doing a working group? When do you start? What's it gonna end with? What's the end goal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113708	I do not want, will not and should not interfere in how one or the other party organises its negotiating strategy in a negotiating situation. But what has been peculiar to this situation is that all groups in the public labour market have negotiated results home and that their members have very, very much voted in favour of those agreements. I have great respect for the fact that nurses did not do so and on that basis chose to go into conflict, but of course it has also had an impact on how the conflict has developed. I do not agree with Mr. Jacob Mark in that, if it leads to conflict in the public sector, then it does not lead anywhere. In other words, in 2018, it was close to leading to conflict, and this meant, among other things, because all the employees' groups were united on the same requirements, which were clearly defined, that a number of those requirements were also met to a large extent. Perhaps one of the challenges this time has also been that there have been some campaigns which have pointed to an official reform which Jacob Mark says cannot be abolished because it has no legal effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113828	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113829	However, the major, more fundamental changes the employees cannot negotiate with KL and Danske Regions without the government having to stamp it out. It's kind of a pseudo-debate. That is also why we have a much higher level of conflict in Denmark than in the other Scandinavian countries. That's why I'm glad the government's gonna look at this now. But I would really like an answer from the Minister as to what the ultimate goal is. When can we expect us to discuss this with whether there is a need for change? What kind of inspection is that? Can't the Minister unfold some of those ideas?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113904	Yes. A very specific answer, as I think I have also said to one of the newspapers, is that we will be inviting the public partners to discuss where and how the collective agreement model in the public sector can be adjusted if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113919	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827113925	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for taking the floor in this debate. Now the Minister started by saying that the prospects for a negotiated solution were hopeless, and it has to be said that the government itself bears a share of responsibility for this, because it could have just been possible for Danske Regioner, through the Ministry of Finance, to have laid down, for example. a proposal for a low-wage and equal pay pool on the table, which could be negotiated between the parties and which could possibly have helped bring the nurses back to the negotiating table. But I would like to ask the Minister something about the Minister saying that it is serious when it comes to making such an intervention here. I fully agree with that, and that is why it is clear that it is absolutely essential that one is sharp and sharp in one's argument. Some of the arguments put forward by the government have been the hump of vulnerable treatments and operations, and I would just like to hear whether the Minister can confirm that there were some figures from the Danish Regions other than those presented by the government on Tuesday, which are used as arguments for this, and whether the government has, moreover, considered what this is going to do as a consequence of vulnerable operations and treatments, when we are faced with a situation where it becomes more difficult to recruit and maintain staff and where it can be harder to get them to accept overtime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114048	Well, I have several things to do with it, as sir. Peder Hvelplund says, and that has been said in all possible respect for the negotiating parties. But first of all, if, in this situation, the Folketing had decided to go in to add more money to one group of employees in the public sector, in other words, in addition to the agreed framework, which everyone was involved in negotiating, it would have been, I believe, in the words of some Members, to beat the sosu assistants, the educators or all the others who have negotiated solutions and voted in favour of them. The second is that I have not been in the negotiations myself, nor have I had any desire to sit in the negotiations, but I have at least been able to read in the paper whether it is right or not, I do not know that Danske Regioner actually tried to offer the nurses more money, but that they could not get it through their negotiating community, and that is what I am pointing out in my reply to Mrs Mai Villadsen, so that there are some of the mechanisms, including on the employee side, in the way one negotiates and the way one sets its demands, which also affect the way that wage formation has developed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114154	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114155	But the Minister doesn't know that that's what this is all about. That is not what Enhedslisten has proposed. After all, this is not about giving a specific boost to the nurses, but about giving some money that could be used for a general low-wage and equal pay boost, and one could of course leave the parties to negotiate on how they should be implemented, and it could possibly have helped to soften that conflict. The Minister knows that this is what has been the proposal. But I asked about the humpback settlement thing. So, can the Minister confirm that there were some other figures from the Danish Regions than those that the government went out with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114231	Well, we have kept track of what figures Danske Regioner has reported. The Danish Health Authority has tried in a note to try to predict what the challenges will be and also to include both the coronapukkel, which has not already been fully settled, and the holiday settlement, and also to project with the extensions of the strike that had been agreed. However, I would like to stress once again that what has been the most important thing for the government has been that the conflict was not only blocked, but was so stagnant that the parties themselves asked for it to be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114304	The next brief remark is to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114308	Thank you. The Minister mentioned that it is not at all easy to be among the parties that are about to vote in favour of legislative action, and I would like to confirm that, because this is not easy, it is a serious matter. When we do this in the Radical Left, it is because patients are suffering and there is no prospect of a conflict being resolved by other means. This does not mean that we have given up on the equality problem that we also see. I agree with the Minister that the pay structure committee must examine in several directions, and the conclusions may point to the need for more parties to offer something. What we are proposing on the part of the Radical Left is that on the back of the pay structure committee some tripartite discussions should be convened in which all parties bring something to the table. I would like to hear the Minister perhaps elaborate on what he is thinking, what the government is thinking of committing itself to the pay structure committee when it has to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114412	Thank you for that question and thank you once again to the Radicals for helping, knowing that this is very, very difficult and that it has not been something anyone has wanted. What the government is imagining is really very generous and there we have also been very generous in the sense that we are taking the proposal from the FH on what this pay structure committee is going to be called up at some point shortly after the hopefully adoption of this draft bill for discussion of the mandate and a specific timetable, and then we will, of course, also make sure that there is proper follow-up. I believe that there will be a need for follow-up in several directions. I think that there will clearly be a clue where Christiansborg will be left with some of the questions, there will clearly be a clue where the parties will have to deal with some of the questions, but there will clearly also be a clue where, on the employees side and in the requirement-setting side, we will also have to deal with some of the issues. I do not think I can say whether this is going to be a trialogue, but I do not wish to reject it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114524	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114525	Thank you for that statement. I notice that the government may also have moved a bit here, compared to when we have had the discussion on the issue of equal pay in the past. In any case, there will be more statements about the obligation to do so, and from this point of view I would just like to say that we are keeping the government up to that, because we are serious about this. And what we are doing today is about a concrete conflict that needs to be resolved, but the second issue will certainly be pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114558	Of course, I have no doubt that the Radicals do, but we look forward to having a further dialogue on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114606	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114609	Thank you. I think it is strong that the Minister should stand on the platform. I think the Minister made a strong speech and I believe in every word of good will as well. I also think that there has been such a little unfair raid on the government and the minister in the whole debate here yesterday and also today, and I have a little difficulty in seeing that the government should be able to do anything other than what it is doing, with the analyses it brings to the market and the analyses it has. Normally it is the case that nothing else is done but to exalt a mediation proposal to the law when there is an intervention in a conflict. It is part of the Danish model. Then why are we not voting in favour here? Yes, it has nothing to do with the fact that we do not have confidence in the government and their intentions, but it is, of course, confidence in us in here as a whole that we want to take action with. Because we've been discussing this for years. Well, now I've been active in Danish politics for 20 years, and these discussions are not new. We haven't had them addressed properly. So I just have to say to the Minister's praise that this is not an expression of the fact that we do not trust the government and see it as a lack of will. But I would like to know what it means for the parties who vote in favour to be presented with the terms of reference for the Structure of Wages Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114731	First of all, thank you for those words, and also thank you for the fact that Mr. Jens Rohde can hear that the government has had no interest or intention in interfering in this conflict until a point where it was clear to see that one could not help doing so. It is true that Mr. Jens Rohde points out that the right way to do this is to take the mediation sketch, which both parties have recommended that an agreement be reached on the basis of. In other words, the wording must be seen primarily in the light of the fact that the starting point is • and that is also what is part of the process • that the parties themselves must agree the mandate. However, the parties that helped to take responsibility for the bill being voted through will, of course, be allowed to see it. But what is clear from the government's point of view is that it is the parties who write and define the mandate and that we take note of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114836	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114837	But that is why it is such a rather strange fucking bullshit to give to the parties who choose to support the proposal here. I assume that all the parties in the Folketing will know about the mandate, that is to say get it presented at some point. If you don't get a say in it anyway, what's it gonna do? Can the Minister not just say here from the platform that all the parties in the Folketing will, of course, be presented with the mandate which the parties choose to write, since none of us will have any influence on it anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114917	It is absolutely true that all parties in the Folketing will, of course, see that mandate. If we have written and said that the parties voting in favour of the legislative proposal are presented, it is of course because they are also involved in being informed at an earlier stage than everyone else, and we think that is a fair, what can be said, recognition of the difficult decisions that we all know have been made in voting through this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114944	The next brief remark is from Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827114948	The minister asked me how long conflicts were, and he only asked about the 1970s. He forgets that typographers and social workers were grilled in 1981. He forgets the great, great conflict in 1985. It should also be borne in mind that in 1992, relatively recently, we had the yeast conflict, and in any case there was social democratic intervention in the conflict. This is a special situation because nurses have voted for a higher case: you have voted to put the issue of equal pay on the agenda. And if the government does not recognise that there is a strong contradiction between the desire to solve the problem of equal pay, as expressed by the Minister, and the reluctance to say that there must of course be money on the table, then in other words he says that all the other professional groups must suffer for 100 years of negligence. For it was long before the reform of the civil service was introduced that it started with the unequal pay. Then he says that the policemen, the teachers, all the others, will have to pull money out of their pockets. That is why we say that it is necessary for the Minister to recognise that money is needed from this point of view. Otherwise, there will be no solution to the question of equal pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115110	I think that Mrs Jette Gottlieb, in addition to her history lesson, and I am always happy about that; I knew those stories in advance, but it is always a pleasure to have Mrs Jette Gottliebs also such active memories of some of the conflicts that have been going through time, putting words in my mouth. Because that's actually not what I'm saying. I say that it is necessary to clarify it. In other words, if some of the wage developments that have led to imbalances are also about • and it is therefore, with all due respect, also highlighted by a number of employee groups in the public sector, of course with the members of the FOA as the most vocal • that there is an unfair share of the cake that belongs to those who are already most paid when you pay in percentage form in nominal wage increases, then I think it should clearly be part of the task of the pay structure committee to look at that relationship. For it is also important how the very large cake, which everything else is equal to is part of the negotiating framework, is distributed every three or four years when new agreements are negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115218	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115219	Now I know the order in the Minister's arguments: they come in a certain order every time we raise the question. But what we're saying is that in this situation there was another way. Because if we could say in advance that there was money on the table to solve the problems, we did not say that they should be resolved tomorrow, but we are convinced that it would bring the negotiating parties back to the table. And that is the inequality that the Minister has neglected, and that is how it has happened: that it has been state-approved that it will not start for three years. And that is what we find intolerable. Because in three years' time, the problem will be even bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115255	However, as I have answered on several occasions, we find it extremely difficult to answer all the consequences of the regulation, the extent of the problem, where it begins, where it ends and what can be done about it. And that is also why we think it is premature to have to put either a bag of 2 billion in advance. kr., as SF suggests, or 5 billion. kr., as Enhedslisten suggests. Because no matter how you turn it around, there will be many groups saying that that money is not enough either. That is why our clear answer is: let us now get the pay structure committee, as a united trade union movement points out, to do its job and make some recommendations for itself and for Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115345	Thank you, Minister. The next brief remark is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115349	Thank you for that and thank you for giving the speech and allowing us to follow up and ask questions. I simply have to challenge it when the Minister says that the government has had no choice. I think there are more and more examples of the government having a choice, of course. In addition, we have also seen examples in the past of one way or another of governments having done different things when they have made a legislative action. We have also seen an example in 1998 of an improvement in legislation. What I can be afraid of is that in three years' time, if it is that the committee is done with its work at that time and makes recommendations, we will not get any further, that it is empty intentions and hot air. Now the Minister says that no one has won anything. No, but one might in fact be in doubt whether this is an expression of the fact that the Social Democrats are cowards because it seems that they would rather abandon the nurses, the sosus, the educators, the low-paid prisoner and many others than perhaps bother those with whom they should find the funding, or those who would somehow be affected by the funding. So why is it that we do not want to ensure that there is funding so that, as soon as the recommendations are ready, we can act on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115505	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115506	I should like to say, and I think that is also true of other socialist governments, which have been forced into situations where legitimate labour disputes had to be intervened, that there is by no means anything cowardly about it when one has reached the point when one feels obliged to take that decision in fact quite the contrary. I could easily stand here both fabulating and speculating on what might otherwise be the hallmark of cowardly acts, but I do not want to do so. I think the essential thing here in this situation is that over two rounds, and in the last agreement of 18 May, there is a conciliation sketch to which the nurses' organisation itself has nodded. Members chose to reject it. We have had respect for that. They have now been on strike for up to 10 weeks... the longest labour dispute since the 1970s. Both parties, including the nurses themselves, are asking for this to be resolved by someone other than themselves, and we are doing so by elevating the mediation bill to law, which also includes wage increases overall for 1.1 billion. kr. to the nurses. What I have been informed is that it is roughly equivalent to an average of DKr 2 000. per employee. I respect the fact that you don't think it's enough, but it's the same thing that the sosu, the educators and others have got in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115629	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Victoria Velasquez, on a second point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115631	Surely it is not brave to vote in favour of making a conciliation sketch, which the nurses have voted against twice, a law. Surely it is not brave not to want to secure a fight against unequal pay. It would be brave to say: we are actually taking the chance. Let's do the juice. We are ensuring a fight with the consequences of the official reform. We're gonna start this fight with odd pay. That would be brave. The second is simply not brave. The government still has the opportunity to call for negotiations and say that they want to ensure that the economy is there so that they are ready to act when it is that the recommendations come. In all sorts of other areas we do not need to analyse everything. We didn't do that with Arnepensionen. In all sorts of areas we have not done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115716	When the President gets up, that is because the speaking time is well exceeded. I'm a very, very patient person sometimes, but not anymore. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115723	I would like to repeat, also so that Mrs Victoria Velasquez has heard that the government is aware of, and is also committed to, a follow-up to, the remuneration structure committee which a unanimous trade union movement and the Danish Nursing Council itself have pointed out as a stepping stone. The second is that part of what has also contributed to this debate has been that there has been a lot of talk about structural conditions. I have no doubt for a second that there are, of course, some structural factors that have made wage differences as they are. The reform of the staff may well be one of them, but it is not possible to abolish a 1969 reform which no longer exists. At any rate, I have no knowledge whatsoever of what buttons you can press, or handles you have to turn on, in order to do so if necessary. Personally, I think it has been a little too easy for those who have pointed out that we should simply abolish the reform of the civil service.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115821	The next brief remark is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115824	Thank you. I therefore agree with the Minister that the conflict was in a stalemate. It was so easy to see. I also think it is true that there are many unanswered questions about equal pay. However, when, as an argument for the intervention without any promises of more pay, the Minister refers to the argument that the organisations have recommended conciliation and that the other professional groups have indeed voted in favour of conciliation, I really believe that the Minister is taking a blind eye. Because when the organisations recommended conciliation, it was not an indication that they felt that the problem of unequal pay had been solved by that agreement. They recommended conciliation because they know very well that the problem of unequal pay cannot be solved in the collective agreement model that we know today. Does the Minister agree that the problem of unequal pay, which the nurses have struck to solve, cannot be solved in an agreement and that this may be the reason why there were a great many others who voted in favour of their agreement and were not on strike? Or does the Minister think that all the other trade groups should also be on strike to convince the Minister that we therefore have a problem of unequal pay which cannot be solved in collective bargaining?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827115944	No, I do not think so, because I have noted that an entirely unanimous trade union movement is pointing to a structure of wages committee with the questions that have been raised there, as an answer and as a stepping stone to move forward. I have also noted, moreover, in general newspaper reading that there has been no agreement as to whether it was wise to embark on a strike with the greater and, I think, quite right purpose, as Mrs Kirsten Normann describes. I do not want to interfere, it is not the government's job to interfere in that, but I have noted that has been part of the discussion both before and after Wednesday. That's also why the government says we're taking this pay structure committee seriously. We would like to see these things clarified here. Moreover, we would also like to see some suggestions as to what can be done in the various fora where we have the opportunity to do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120035	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120036	After all, both the nurses and the other organisations agree that money needs to be accompanied if that is the way to solve the problem of unequal pay. So when the minister stands on the platform and complains that the parties who are now voting for this proposal, which does not contain money, and how hard it is, some have been standing out there on Tuesday after Tuesday, it was Tuesday that they were standing there, so it may be the Minister has not met them at all in the Palace Square and is calling for money to be set aside, because the regulation system and everything is the reason why we cannot resolve it in the collective bargaining negotiations. And the minister won't even acknowledge that it takes money, not an amount, but just money for it. Perhaps that could have made it a joint proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120122	First of all, I should like to say to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen that I and the government do not complain about us. We are sorry, and it is by nature a pity when there is a conflict on the Danish labour market. It is a natural part of wage formation and disagreements are resolved through conflicts, but it is always a pity when a government is forced to intervene in a legitimate conflict. So I'm not complaining. But I express vexation. In addition, I would just like to reiterate that we do not reject any steps that can be taken, but the important thing is that we have a clear picture of what these are dynamics and assumptions that have helped to create the differences that are being talked about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120204	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120208	Thank you. I have a book at home called "The Sick Capitalism," written by a guy named Peter Hummelgaard. There are many visionary thoughts there, but it is as if they have been thrown out in the Ministry of Employment. The government can give a helping hand to this conflict, many have said. But no one has asked the government to empty their boxes and sit passively and look at this conflict. I would like to ask a simple question: what does the Minister think the government has spent the 10 weeks here in addition to emptying the crates with the nurses? There has not been one proposal that is useful in relation to the democratic resolution of a conflict. There has been a proposal to dictate that nurses should follow what the government thinks is the right basis. It has little to do with democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120313	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl for having my book at home. I'm glad he's read it. I think he should read it again, because there are, in fact, a great many of the analyses and proposals which are in the book which this government is in the process of fulfilling. But one of the most important things that is also in that book is, of course, what a basic method of working is which, in my opinion, brings about the greatest changes. It has never been revolutions that others believe in. That has been what Günter Grass described as the snail's wandering. The second thing I want to say is that Mr. Christian Juhl knows: It is not a government's job to act as a mediator in a labour dispute between two parties, it is the conciliation institution. And the conciliation institution was in the process of mediation between the two parties and of making a mediation sketch on 18 May, and now that we can see that the conflict has been running for 10 weeks and there is no prospect of a new negotiated solution, it is the mediation sketch that we are exalting to law. We haven't stepped in the eye of any employee group here. On the contrary, we have given the full opportunity and the right to take up the legitimate conflict between two sides of industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120423	Thank you. Before I give Mr. Simpson... Christian Juhl (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask all the other Members who have not been given the floor to be quiet in the Chamber so that we can listen to the debate. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl on another point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120434	Thank you. I'm not yelling at any revolution. Yes, within the pay system there must be a fundamental change, and that is the same as a revolution. It's the same word my vocabulary. I would like to say: then I read the book wrong. I thought the most important contribution was that a working party should promote the view that it is useful to fight for improvements, for a better society, for a fairer society and for a more equal society. If that's not the role of the Labour Party, then what is it, sir? Minister? Because then I misunderstood the role. Then all we have to do is administer capitalism and say: well, it's going well as it goes, and then the nurses have to put up with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120519	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120522	The conflict weapon is, of course, an important, important part of any negotiation in the labour market, but it is a government's task not to interfere, as far as possible, in the legitimate conflicts of the parties in a negotiating situation. That is what this government has been doing, and we have been doing it for up to 10 weeks, and we had reached a place where both parties, including the striker, themselves asked for it to be completed. That is, of course, what we have listened to, and we did so in concrete terms by having the parties in a meeting on Wednesday, where I asked them: do you believe in any circumstances that a solution can be negotiated? They said no to that, and then there was nothing else to do but to take what had actually been negotiated, that is to say, the conciliation sketch that the conciliation institution had been through.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120606	Thank you, Minister. As far as I can see here on the list of speakers, only one more person wanted a brief comment. This is Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120616	Thank you. After all, the Minister is both Minister for Gender Equality and Employment. That speaks very well of what this conflict is really about, namely equal pay. It has been said several times in the course of the debate that the issue of equal pay is about much more than the nurses. The Minister does not have to answer that question, because I know it does. I am glad that the Minister is standing on the floor now, so I have the opportunity to ask this question. We have put written questions to the Minister in the Enhedslisten. How does this procedure affect equal pay? Is this a step forward for equal pay? Are we getting closer to equal pay between the women-dominated and the male-dominated professions with this procedure, or are we getting any further from it? We have not really received an answer that we can use for anything, to the question we have asked. So I ask the Minister: what is this intervention for equal pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120710	Well, this procedure elevates to law the mediation sketch, which was concluded on 18 May, and which gives nurses a pay increase of just over 5%. per Nurse. I have full respect for the fact that as an employee group you can easily think at this time is not enough, and that is why you have taken a conflict. I do not think it is clear whether this is doing anything about equal pay or unequal pay; I think the most realistic answer is that it probably does not shake anything in either direction. Because unequal wages, which we recognize as a challenge, have many different factors. Some of this is the direct wage in men's and women's professions, and some of it is between men and women in general. We know that on average there is a pay gap of 14 per cent. Some of this is about men taking significantly less maternity leave than women. All these things must be addressed, and where we also have to address wage developments in the public sector, in the pay structure committee which the trade union movement itself has pointed out as a very, very important part of the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120816	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120817	The government recognises that there is an equal pay problem. The government would also like to do something about it. Why, then, is an intervention being made which, in the Minister's own words, does not shake anything at all about the problem. You have an opportunity now to address the problem of equal pay. There's a majority to set aside money for this if only the government wants to join us. So why, sir? Minister for Gender Equality, are you not going to do something about that problem? Why won't you use your majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120853	Firstly, that the Folketing should decide as part of an intervention to give a party to the labour market significantly higher part of the payroll, would in every way possible be a huge, huge break with the way politicians and Parliament interfere with labour disputes. Secondly, if you take Enhedslisten's proposal to make a pool of 5 billion. kr., this in itself would not be enough to solve the structural unequal pay problems, as Enhedslisten and others point out there are. That is why we need the pay structure committee to clarify what the politicians can do, what the parties can do together, and not least what they have to do on the employee side, which I think is very, very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120938	Thank you to the Minister for Employment and Gender Equality. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else wishes to speak, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827120958	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 71 (S, V, RV, KF, NB, LA, Orla Østerby (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)) voted against 30 (DF, SF, EL, KD, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG) abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210827121035	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday 9 September at 9 a.m. 9. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. Thank you very much for the silence that is when you just give a final announcement... but I will refer you to the weekly schedule that appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
