ParlaMint-DK_20211026130003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Rasmu Nordqvist (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 18 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution introducing the possibility of a municipal veto on stockfarming and mussel farming). Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 19 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the incorporation of the Chicago principles into the University Act). Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Peter Skaarup (DF), Karsten Hønge (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Jens Rohde (KD), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Susanne Zimmer (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 20 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a more humane and solidarity refugee policy in Denmark (citizen's proposal)). Mette Abildgaard (KF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 21 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the set-off of income from work in the national pension scheme). Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others: Haste query no. F 8 (Why does the Minister consider it reasonable that the government has changed the Danish three-year rule of family reunification to refugees with temporary protection status into a two-year rule without including the Folketing, and will the underlying judgment of the European Court of Human Rights be complied with in any other way than by a two-year rule?). The titles of the cases notified will appear at www. Parliamentstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130144	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130202	The debate is now open and we can start with the rapporteur's series. The first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130226	Thank you for the floor. The draft law we are now considering has its origins in the fact that last December we reached a very broad agreement with almost all the parties in the Danish Parliament on the police and the public prosecutor's economy for 2021 to 2023, and this is an agreement that we sincerely welcome. It contains a comprehensive catalogue of important actions designed to strengthen the police and the prosecution and to ensure that the authorities are equipped to combat serious organised crime. And today we are dealing first with the draft law, which implements a number of the initiatives of the agreement, and these are initiatives that will really make a difference to the work of the police and the prosecution and to the security of the citizens. The draft law contains, among other things: a limitation of the possibility that a long period of time may be taken into account as a mitigating circumstance in criminal proceedings. This means that, in future, the courts can only take into account the length of proceedings as a mitigating circumstance if it is necessary because of the Convention on Human Rights, and we think that limitation is quite reasonable for the sake of the victims who are also waiting for months or even years for justice to be done. The bill also tightens the penalties for threats to freedom of expression. In fact, this is a doubling of the penalty for threats based on legitimate statements made by the wrongdoer or intended to prevent the wrongdoer from using his freedom of expression. After all, it is absolutely essential that we protect all those who use their freedom of expression to participate in the debate, including politicians, journalists, debaters, public servants and, of course, all other citizens. No one should feel threatened out of the public debate, and the punishment will put a point under that we will not accept such actions. At the slightly more heavy end of the legislative proposal, we are also taking action against serious economic and organised crime. We do this, among other things, by establishing a new national unit in the police, called the National Unit for Special Crime, which brings together the most specialised police and prosecutorial competences, thereby strengthening the fight against complex and difficult economic and organised crime. The draft law also reinforces the important anti-laundering measures. There are a number of measures to provide the police with a more targeted and qualified intelligence image for the investigation of serious money laundering, terrorist financing and the crimes that are behind it. This is a very, very important legislative proposal, which results in a very important agreement, and I think I will just end by saying that we, of course, support the Social Democrats. Then I would just like to take this opportunity to welcome the fact that we have been able to bring together such a broad spectrum of parties about such an important agreement with so many important steps. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130520	Thank you. There is one person who would like to make a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130524	Thank you. As the rapporteur has said, many of the things contained in the draft law are basically sensible things. Perhaps it should in fact have been a lot of legislative proposals, because it is a proper piece of cake that is mixed together here. But having said that, I would like to ask a question about the penalty debate, which there has been a great desire in the Danish Parliament to abolish. Strafrabat to criminals due to long processing time seems the Danish People's Party is somewhat bad. And yet this bill shows that there are limitations on how to remove the government's opinion of this penalty rebate. Can the rapporteur not tell us what these restrictions are and why we should bow to the fact that others seem to be preventing us from doing the right thing, namely to remove any rebate due to long processing time?
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130624	This is probably a question which goes beyond what is involved in the specific question of a penalty rebate. It is a well-known view that the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Skaarup's party would like to see the Convention on Human Rights not necessarily applied in Denmark. We then believe, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, that it is essential that Denmark also supports international conventions and agreements as part of having an international community of law, and here the Convention on Human Rights is part of it. Then we can sometimes have specific judgments interpreting this or other conventions, with which we then disagree. These are the rules of the game when you are involved in international cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130704	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130706	But I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it really true that the Convention on Human Rights makes it impossible for us to implement the legislation in Denmark that we would like to see? And if the Social Democratic Party could now decide, would it not be the case that any rebate should be abolished in relation to a reduction in penalties in the courts, as is the case today, in other words, if we were to be able to decide for ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130736	Well, as I said in my speech, I think that this is basically also a question of justice in relation to the victims, because they are also waiting for a case to be decided where some have committed a crime. And that is why it is right and proper that we go as far as we possibly can, but within the framework of the Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130800	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026130809	Thank you. Yeah, what's going on with this bill? I must start by agreeing with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party that this is a mixture of many different things. But it goes back to the Ministry of Justice, and yes, the alternative was that we had ten times as many bills to deal with here in the Danish Parliament, but it doesn't make it easier to deal with the individual bill there are so many different things. If we look at the most controversial thing, that's what Mr. Peter Skaarup has already had hold of the fact that a discount is granted on long-term police investigations. That is clear today from section 213 of the Criminal Code, and that is the provision that is being repealed or modified, so that sanctions can only be granted if it is necessary for the purposes of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. That is perfectly understandable in relation to the victims. I must say, however, that in order to anticipate the following questions, it may not be as understandable to the cycling thief who has his case lying in the radiator heap with the police for years and thus has criminal proceedings and a penalty that would like to work against him and come reasonably quickly after the crime. It is perhaps not so understandable for the person concerned that there is no discount in that situation. However, it is a question of the consideration of victims versus the consideration of criminals, and it has therefore been chosen, in our view, a fair middle solution by saying that the European Convention on Human Rights is the limit here. In addition, the penalty for threats relating to the freedom of expression of persons will then be doubled, and that is understandable. Freedom of expression is something we must safeguard in Denmark, and we are not doing enough with the level we have today. So we fully support it too. I would call it an FBI but a special police force, and prosecutorial competences are gathered in one unit in two geographical locations, respectively in Aarhus and in Copenhagen. It is therefore difficult to say that we are opposed to such a structural change as those who are in favour of it. I cannot fail to note that I might fear that this could result in the financial cases which, in my opinion, are being investigated all too badly, far too little, Denmark being an eldorado for economic criminals going to run even slower. And there I might ask the Minister of Justice, at a relevant time, to comment on the remarks, where it says that the Attorney General for Special Crimes is thus the new entity, which will take over to a certain extent some of the tasks that already lie with the Attorney General for Special Economic and International Crimes, i.e. SØIK. Does SØIK continue, and to what extent does SØIK continue? And do we now have three units, i.e. one in Copenhagen, one in Aarhus and SØIK in Copenhagen? And can we be reasonably sure that this will increase efficiency? I am seriously afraid that it does not, but let us hope for the best. It is, however, people who understand what has decided that it should be so. Then there's the rape victims' explanation. It can be very distressing for a rape victim to have to sit perhaps already in a constitutional hearing, later in the court of the city, later in the court of law, where one should brush down in the smallest detail how the crime has taken place. And it will now be the case that the rape victim is already being video interviewed in connection with the police report, where the incident is also unfortunately in fresh remembrance or, fortunately, in relation to the legal system and then, in the course of the trial, you can further question the victim if there is something that is not properly clarified or gives rise to doubts. But it is not the intention of this, and I think this is important, that the victim should now perhaps for the fourth time begin to explain it. So these are supplementary questions, further questions that can be asked during the trial in relation to what has already been documented in the video. Then people-dangerous crime must be given priority, and that is very good. I hope that can happen as well. But as the habit is traditionally in this high thing, we prioritise a lot of things without at the same time telling what we downgrade, and I might ask for a better explanation for that, but no one can be in doubt that it is quite reasonable. Finally, a fast-track system is being set up in money laundering cases and the freezing of transactions. The left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026131324	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026131341	Thank you. Today we are discussing L 14, a proposal to amend the law on the administration of justice, money laundering, criminal law and various other laws. When you sit and look through the bill, we have to say on the part of the Danish People's Party that there are many good elements in these legislative proposals, and many of them have also been very carefully agreed between the political parties. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are going to end up supporting the proposal. As far as most of the points are concerned, this is something we know a great deal about, but there are also points on which there are, of course, open points which we would like to ask a little more about during the committee's reading. What can be said is that it is often during this parliamentary period that the government praises itself quite a lot. They do so in many areas. That's fair enough. When you have the floor, you can praise yourself, and the government has often done so. But one of the things that they saw in the government has praised themselves very much is that they have limited the number of legislative proposals. I've heard that from the Secretary of Defense, and I've also heard it from the Minister of Justice. And then when you see this pile under L 14, which probably actually contains seven bills, you might think that it's very nice that you pride yourself on the fact that we have considerably fewer • you mean yourself • bill, but if the reality is that you wrap seven bill into one bill, then it's easy enough to have fewer bills made. For this bill means that in seven different areas changes are being made which are quite significant, one has to say. Of course, it will be fine if all the parties agree with the seven legislative proposals that have been put together in one legislative proposal. It may be harder if there are parties that say that just that we do not like it. Because then it will be difficult for those parties to make their views known in relation to the individual areas, because they will then come to the government and say that can we not split up the bill? And then we have the pussy. However, as I said, we basically have a positive assessment of the legislative proposal. We are particularly pleased that, if criminal proceedings have taken longer than expected, we will limit the possibility of a penalty rebate. Unfortunately, that is often the situation. For basically, in our view, a criminal should not be granted a discount after he has committed something criminal. Even if criminal proceedings have taken a long time to end. It must still be the case that you commit crime, then you must also be accountable for the crime you have committed, even if it has taken some time in the courts and in the police and in the prosecution. The reason why it is not fully implemented is, of course, the concern for the Convention on Human Rights, it is said, in other words, where rights are guaranteed for the perpetrator rather than for the victims. Basically, too much attention has been paid to the perpetrator's perspective in the eyes of the Danish People's Party. It should be the case that it is the victims that are first and foremost helped, not the perpetrator. Why does the victim have to wait an unreasonable amount of time before the case can be closed in the courts? Why should the victim not really be compensated for waiting for his case for perhaps several years? Why should it be the perpetrator whom the Human Rights Convention designates as the one to be rewarded? Because that is really what the government is saying here. If we are to break completely with the principles of the Convention, we must grant compensation to the perpetrator because we do not want to grant a penalty rebate according to the Convention on Human Rights. As the government says, this is the way it should be read. And the government won't go into that. It can be said that yes, that would be unreasonable. But you can also say that there are actually quite a lot of perpetrators who have very large debts to the public in advance, so perhaps it would not do so much if a gang boy who has done a lot of crime and has a lot of debt, gets a little less compensation if it were finally to be. It probably won't make a big difference. So if you're finally gonna do something, just walk along that path. We have no problem with that in the Danish People's Party. So it is a call to the government, and we will ask more about that during the committee procedure, in other words whether the government will be involved in it. Then it is also the case that this proposal establishes the National Unit for Special Crime. It is clear that it raises some questions about the competence that we have today. Is it moving out, or is it being put together? It is therefore important to retain competence, whether you move out or add up. We will see this in the Danish People's Party. However, as I have said, we are likely to vote in favour of the legislative proposal when it is finalised.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026131914	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and we go to the SF rapporteur. And this is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026131926	I'm not afraid, Louise. I have 49 other points in my indictment. I'm not fucking scared. And before you and I go to court... there can be between three and five years. Trust me. I'm the master of changing from girl to girl to girl. ▪ That is what a man with 68 charges on his conscience said, and eight years of harassment, violence, and threats passed before the sentence fell. A total of seven ex-boyfriends were molested. The case started in 2011 and it should be 8 years before the verdict fell. It turned into a year and a half in prison. It goes without saying that it is not acceptable, on the one hand, that it takes so long for a case to get through the system of waiting for the victims and, on the other hand, that a lower penalty is expected because the matter is dragging on. And that was among other things. Therefore, in a broad circle of parties in the Folketing we landed a police settlement where we have given each other a handshake that we will address cases where the authorities' slowness with the case may end up giving the perpetrator a penalty discount. Although I must think that it is a little backwards to remove the penalty debate, because the whole justice system has been neglected in terms of resources and the length of proceedings has become too long because the necessary resources have not been provided to the courts and the police in time, I still think that we should go that way. It is a political responsibility, it can be said, that we have failed and not dropped resources, so that things can be speeded up at the required speed, but if we are to wait for time to be set aside, then it makes sense to go this way and look at the penalty debate. We support the proposal, partly because it is part of the agreement, partly because it means something to the victims, but also because it then remains within the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights concerning the right to a fair trial. That's gotta be it. If we break the nut with this action, we'll have to look further along the way, but hopefully it will at least mean that there can be no more penalty discounts when we see this kind of sluggishness in these cases. What does that mean for the number of prison places? And best as we are in the process of making a settlement, which would have to remedy the situation that we lack seats in the Criminal Services, we are imposing new burdens on them which we do not know the consequences of. In fact, I do not think that is acceptable to the employees who are already working quite unwelcomely. And I think the least we could do in this case was to reserve a sum of money for the purpose while we learn how many seats it then provides. The proposal also partly implements the SF proposal, B 34, which was discussed on 24 November last year, in which it included: It is proposed that the penalties for threatening and intimidating others taking part in the public debate should be significantly increased. In our optics, it is fundamental that we can all make use of our freedom of expression in the public debate. So it's good that we get that part too. I would like to say, however, that it is essential that we also get the police action with and strengthen it, because the victims cannot use the penal code for anything unless the police are also investigated and prosecuted by those who want to destroy our fine democracy. This is precisely where it is estimated that the proposal can be kept within the framework of the criminal justice system economy. I think we should stop adopting this kind of proposal, in which we do not allocate the money to the burdens we place on the judiciary. I think we have suffered too many legislative proposals in which we say that it can be kept within the framework. Well, maybe it can do that a couple of times, but when we've used that model a lot of times, we're gonna blow them up, and it's not gonna work. A standardisation tool is needed to ensure automatic allocation of resources. The proposal also means that we will have a reinforced investigation into money laundering and financial crime. That was one of the things we were also concerned with in the negotiations, where we included. It called for closer cooperation between the financial sector and the police. It's coming now too, so it's really good. And then we were able to expand the possibility of video interrogation... and we're also very happy with that... so that in rape cases you can now avoid this very stressful part of having to give your statement over and over again and risk re-raummatization. So all in all, we think there's a lot of positive bets in this bill, and it's going to get support from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132429	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132433	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to comment on the following: can this not seem a little backwards? We are all sitting here, including the Left, and supporting the proposal for the abolition of the penalty debate. We do this for the sake of the victims, but at the same time we must also say that the fact that we do not take out the wallet and put money on the table for the police now means that the person who has been charged for several years without the police and the prosecution getting caught up in making an indictment no longer gets a discount. Isn't it a little bit to fix the bakery for blacksmith, where they say we can't find the money, but then we put people in jail longer? Can the rapporteur comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132525	I actually think I did a little in my speech, because I think it is actually backwards that we are having a discussion about removing the penalty debate. We only do that for one reason. That is because there have been no resources allocated to the police and to the courts so that cases can get through at the required speed. If the cases did so, we would not be sitting here discussing the penalty debate, and that is why I think it is a little backwards. The arrow is pointing at all of us. We haven't done what we were supposed to do in time. We have not had the money set aside, and I think that somewhere is deeply regrettable. I think that there is a great deal of consideration for the victims here, and that is also why we are looking at this proposal. But it must also be said that there are some perpetrators for whom the delay in time can have enormous consequences. One might say that they should not commit crime. I agree with that, because then we were not in this situation at all, but for them it also means that they wait a very, very long time to be able to move on with their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132619	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132620	Yes, as in far too many cases, how many I don't know we don't disagree in these areas. But let me look briefly at something else: I fear that this could become more of a sleeping pillow within some police units which will lead to even longer processing times. Does the rapporteur agree that in some way we should try to check the length of the proceedings more closely in the future to ensure that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132651	I don't think I disagree with Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen. I think that could be the case. One might say, however, that there are some incentives to promote the case today, but if it does not affect the outcome of the case, one could imagine that the time for the proceedings will just be longer and longer. So I'd like to hold Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen up on that, so that together we must make sure to keep hands in hand with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132715	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132717	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that the SF is of the opinion that penalty rebates are bad and that it is a pity that we should be discussing it at all, but that now that we have to discuss it, the SF really wants to get rid of penalty rebates because of a long process, and then I would really like to ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt whether it is not a problem for the SF that there is obviously the limitation that there are things about penalty rebates that we must not remove and which benefit the perpetrator • things about penalty rebates that we cannot remove because of the Convention on Human Rights. Is it not a problem for the SF that there are conventions, that is to say external things that in reality prevent us from doing the right thing for the benefit of the victims who have been subjected to crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132805	I believe that the SF will always be concerned with complying with the conventions, so at this stage I do not have a problem with the fact that we are, of course, observing the Convention on Human Rights here; that is quite right. Sometimes I find it a little boring that punishment is the only thing we offer the victims. I am aware that it is also part of the healing process to be able to put a stop to it and that it actually provides a penalty, but I think we are too bad to accommodate the victims, by the way. I mean, what's going to happen, for example? free psychological assistance for the victims? Why is it that there still has to be a self-payment when you are a victim in a case, because that is sometimes what can help the victims move forward? I think we should also look a little bit at what else we are offering the victims when they have been subjected to an attack. Punishment is one part, but there are many more elements that I think we should pay more attention to too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132858	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132900	There we fully agree with the Danish People's Party: we need to be better at holding the victims' hands through the system and offering them help, for example. psychological assistance, so that it is not a problem for them when they have been subjected to some crime. When we return to the penalty rebates, it is because I would like to ask what the government is writing in the draft law, namely that if we are to eliminate penalty rebates completely, regardless of the conventions, we must provide some form of compensation to the perpetrator, that is, financial compensation. Will the SF go in to discuss whether it was an opportunity, if one now agrees with the view that penalty rebates are bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026132940	Well, we're always ready to discuss proposals. I can't assess the consequences of that, sir. Peter Skaarup is coming with us here... at least we will be obsessed with observing the conventions. And then, in fact, I think that we are faced with at least as serious a problem when it comes to the right to pool matters. That is what means that some cases are also dragging on: because the perpetrator commits something new, it has to be investigated, and then it has to be included in the case complex. This also takes a lot of time, and unfortunately we see from time to time that there are some perpetrators whom I also started reading here who are speculating about it, and I think we have to look at that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026133019	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We can move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026133029	Thank you very much. This bill implements several elements of the agreement reached by a broad majority in the Folketing on the finances of the police and the prosecution. It is acting, for example. on the establishment of a new national police unit to ensure that the fight against the most complex economic organised crime is strengthened. Several rapporteurs before me have examined the other elements, but one thing I would nevertheless like to highlight is that the possibility of video consultation should be extended, which among other things. In other words, victims in rape cases, for example. also gets an offer for video interrogation. We in the Radical Left hope that this will provide another and better security for the victims in rape cases, so that they do not experience a re-raumatisation by having to explain themselves repeatedly in those cases. Radical Left supports the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026133137	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026133151	Thank you. As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund, cannot be present, I would like to say on her behalf that, as you know, the Enhedslisten is part of the police conciliation that was concluded in December, and what we are dealing with now is a partial implementation of that conciliation. As in the case of all conciliation, there are elements for all parties that you are happy about and elements that you are not so happy about. One of the things we are really happy about in Enhedslisten is the increased focus on financial crime. As digital development progresses, economic crime has also become quite complex. We have gone from a situation where a signature or a document may be forged to a situation where endless digital tracks and encryption make it extremely difficult to solve the crimes. Therefore, it is very positive that we have a special unit that should focus only on this kind of serious crime so that they can build up the specialist skills needed to solve the crimes. Hopefully it won't be as easy for bandits in suits to steal from our common box forward. One of the elements that we are not so happy about is the part that is about criminal sanctions. It has so far been the case that, if you were subjected without your own fault to an unreasonable length of time before you received your sentence, you would automatically receive a penalty rebate. It is a principle that is very good reasons not to depart from. When you have committed crime, you have to take your sentence, but the period leading up to the sentence limits you from living a normal life, and therefore it is important that criminal proceedings are concluded as soon as possible. I think everyone can agree on that. Then you can serve your sentence and then come out and become part of the general community. If it takes an unnecessary amount of time, the period when you cannot participate on an equal footing with others helps to move you further away from becoming a law-abiding citizen on the other hand, and that is not in anyone's interest. We should rather not go out and commit new crimes once we have received a verdict. We have seen a great many glaring examples of why cases take an unreasonable amount of time. Sometimes it is just because the files are so large in the prosecution authorities and the courts that there is simply no time. At other times, cases have had to change completely, for example. Because there has been a prosecutor who has been a little too involved in a case and has then instructed police witnesses in what to say. Such situations cannot reasonably be put at the disadvantage of the accused and it is not reasonable that one should only get out of prison more years later than otherwise, when the State has not done its job properly. However, the new provision allows the courts to reduce the penalty if the long duration of proceedings would be contrary to the provisions of the Convention on Human Rights concerning the right to a fair trial. We really hope that the courts will remember this provision. Because we should not punish criminals harder when public bodies do not deliver on time. We should ensure that there are sufficient resources to enable all cases to be brought before the court and dealt with within a reasonable period of time. Having said that, the Enhedslisten, with a great deal of focus on the positive elements of the bill, can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026133507	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026133517	Thank you. As several other rapporteurs have mentioned, this draft law comes from the police agreement. I do not want to repeat all the elements, but I would just like to highlight a few. In the Conservative People's Party, we are pleased with the change that is in relation to the fact that the procedure must be taken as a moment in the punitive procedure. The duration of proceedings is a factor which can be taken into account and in a legal society it should not be the case that the length of proceedings automatically leads to a lower penalty. We are also looking forward to the establishment of the new National Unit for Financially Organized Crime. It is important that we arm ourselves on that front. When criminals find new ways and ways for their criminal runners, the police need to be strengthened. This is what we're gonna do. With this multi-year agreement, we have decided to set objectives for the duration of proceedings in cases of personal crime, and that is a good thing. However, there is already far too much waiting time in the courts, which is why I am particularly sensitive to the fact that both the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice have pointed out that this priority will lead to longer processing times for other cases. It can be madness driving; it can be extortion, burglary or civil cases, which we must not forget can also be a great burden on the parties involved. A prioritising of one thing means a downgrading of another, unless resources are included. So I can already tell the Minister that we will be discussing this in more detail in the forthcoming negotiations on a new multi-annual agreement for the courts. We also set up a fast track system in the White Wash Secretariat. The operational regulatory forum is important for arming and making the fight against and investigating money laundering more effective. However, some relevant concerns are raised in the hearing by both the Lawyers' Council and Justitia. We need to discuss this in greater detail in committee, and we need to have a discussion on the relevance of the proposal from Finance Denmark that foreign branches should be involved. All in all, this is a very, very good bill, which the Conservative People's Party naturally supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026133758	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026133809	Thank you. That will be the world's shortest rapporteur speech. New citizens are part of the agreement on the police and prosecutor's finances that we entered into this winter. It's a deal where, among other things, we... the introduction of exit controls and a special unit against social fraud. It is an agreement that we are very happy to be part of. The legislative proposal we are discussing today has been examined by other parties, and I can say on behalf of the new citizens that we support the proposal, which is the implementation of the agreement we reached this winter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026133840	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance or from the Christian Democrats, and then we move on to the Justice Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026133855	Thank you, President. And thank you for the generally good comments. Let me start by saying that in reality, as all the rapporteurs say, but with emphasis on various things, there is a reason to welcome the fact that we have a legislative proposal which is good and which will give our police and prosecutors better opportunities to solve crime and that, moreover, there is a very broad majority behind it here. Mr. Peter Skaarup to say that the government, he did not say in time and prematurely, but it could almost sound that way, commends himself, and there I think you have to remember what I think Sweyn Auken said, namely that the only praise you are sure to get in politics is self-esteem, so you should not be harsh with that, and it is not the government in this context either. In fact, I think it is a good legislative proposal that I think it is a good deal. It then leads me to the next element. Several rapporteurs have said: is it not an unreasonable collection of all sorts of different elements which, in a sense, could well deserve to stand in their own right politically and have their own treatment politically? I therefore agree that a number of the elements would be able to bear it. When it comes together here, it is because it is precisely implementing the overall agreement that we have made, as it was also undertaken. As was pointed out by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, for most parties, if not all parties, there will be elements that are more pleasing than other elements, and there will be elements that would have been better left out, but now that it is an overall settlement that is being implemented here, you have to take the acid with the acid and therefore it is an overall package. One might say that the only two parties who could reasonably say that this should be split up are the Left and the Liberal Alliance, which are not here today. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, by the way, was, for the sake of histories, a central negotiator in what we are implementing today, until the Left so for more and more unclear reasons decided not to want to be a part of it anyway. But Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen has then indicated today that the Left supports the bill, which I think is sensible, and that is why there is no basis for dividing up the bill. So to some of the substantive elements that have been pointed out. It's been raised by a number of people, i.e. by the fact that there's a penalty rebate. Today, it is the case that we in, and that was also mentioned by Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Section 82 of the Criminal Code, no. 13, has a provision that the fact that the criminal proceedings against the perpetrator have not been settled within a reasonable period of time must be taken into account as an attenuating factor, without being able to blame the perpetrator. If the perpetrator himself has caused the case to take a long time, it cannot trigger a penalty rebate, but otherwise it can trigger a penalty rebate, and the case law also shows that it does. So there was a fairly broad wish that that penalty rebate would be dealt with in the negotiations. That is to say, some parties again were more enthusiastic about it than others. That is correct when Mr. Peter Skaarup of the Danish People's Party points out that this was a matter of heart for the Danish People's Party and some of what the Danish People's Party brought into the negotiations, but incidentally supported by a large number of other parties in that view. What is just the matter is that the European Convention on Human Rights in Article 6 (6). 1, says that every • now it is not literal reading, but taken so roughly after memory • has the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time. If you cannot deliver it, there are two options: either you have to have a penalty rebate or you have to have financial compensation. And that's it, sir. Peter Skaarup mentions: should a financial compensation be granted instead of a penalty rebate? There we have chosen to say in the agreement that we will reduce the penalty debate as much as possible within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. In reality, however, this discussion about how much we can then reduce is, of course, a discussion of a symptom: a symptom of the fact that we have a police force and a prosecutor, courts which do not have the resources at their disposal to deal with matters so quickly, so that we do not have to impose a penalty rebate. That is why I also think that there is reason to note what is, after all, a very central part of our police agreement, that we have set targets to bring down the long processing time, so that penalties should not be given in future. In the field of personal crime in particular, we have said that here there are relatively short deadlines for the speed with which matters must be settled, and it is, in fact, to combat the cause and not the symptoms that we are getting to grips with so much. Then another question was asked. It was sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, who said that the new national unit, the one abbreviated NSK, because we could not find a way to cut it short from the FBI, must deal with the complex, economical, organized crime, and Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen then asked: Does SØIK continue unchanged into the new unit? The new unit is basically created by bringing together eight specialised units, including among others. SØIK, in order to exploit the synergy between the entities, which will enable us to strengthen the fight against complex and organised crime. There will be some cases that need to be lifted into these units and there will be situations where the unit will have to support the local work of police circles. The precise organization I think I should return with, but per. After all, on 1 January, it is planned that the unit should be finally in place. Then it is true that some raised some other issues. It was pointed out what you were happy about and what you were not so happy about. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt of the SF pointed out what I think to be a factual point of view, that we should remember the burden of criminal justice. By the way, when we adopt initiatives which we say lead to punishment, we are in a situation where criminal justice is so under pressure, so we owe it to ourselves also in those situations to deal with what it will do with in criminal justice. But, by the way, we are in a situation where we are currently debating how to deal with the difficult situation in which the Department of Justice is in, which is far, far more complex than just a question of possible punishments in one situation or another, but must also deal with a large number of other elements. Similarly, Mrs Britt Baker pointed out a relevant element: what is the point of giving extra money to the police and prosecutors if the courts do not have the resources to deal more quickly with the cases which the police and prosecutors are getting ready for the courts, so that a hunch can arise in the courts. Well, that's a matter of fact. It is clear that, at the time of the proceedings, it will of course help that matters can become clearer more quickly through the police and the prosecutor's office. There could also be a build-up in the courts. We have set aside some extra money to deal with the situation, but basically we owe it to look at the whole chain of criminal proceedings, that is. the investigational, investigative work of the police, the prosecution decision, etc., the court's handling of the case and also the judicial services. This is the whole chain of criminal proceedings that we need to look at. It just falls into different settlements. We have dealt with the police and the prosecution now, we are just negotiating, and the economy of the courts will also be in touch with. However, I basically agree that we also have a situation in which the second part of the criminal proceedings chain is under pressure. With this agreement and with the legislative proposal we are making and the other initiatives that lie there, among other things. in order to make criminal proceedings more effective in other ways, we will have a great deal of resources raised to the police and prosecutor's office and their ability to improve their functions, but we will also have to deal with how we help the courts through. So summa summarum I really think I can only be very happy with the comments that have fallen on the part of the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026134746	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026134753	It's a comment or a question to the Minister for Justice about this petty-drilling, or whatever you might call it, about whether there are seven bills in a bill. The Minister then says that only two parties are outside it and can question the reasonableness of such seven elements being dug into a legislative proposal. And I would just like to say that I also think there is a question of fairness in here. I mean, I didn't have time to say everything I wanted to say on the platform, because there were only five minutes to cover quite extensive things. But having said that, it is also a question of fairness. Well, there may well be parties in here that are part of an agreement, but who actually want to discuss the elements and have time for it where such a pile of weddings here makes it actually very difficult to get a real review of everything about traffic law, criminal law, etc. etc. It's a huge mess that's in this bill. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211026134859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026134901	Yes and no. After all, the examination of the bill does not end today; it starts today. There are two more readings in the Chamber and there is discussion in committee where there is plenty of time to get into it. My point was, in fact, that when you make a settlement, as several have also pointed out, and implement it in law, you will not be able to ask for the bill to be split up, so that you say: the things that I have committed myself to in the conciliation, I will not vote in favour anyway, and that is why I want the bill to be split up. In addition, it is my view, and the rapporteur also knows from experience, that if people ask for a split of legislative proposals, they should do so unless it is quite unspeakable because it is fair enough that parties have the opportunity to express their differences of opinion. But here, where we have been through a long process of negotiation and then subsequently implement what we have agreed on, by law, one must, as has been said, take the bitter with the sweet.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135000	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135002	Enough about that. I think we should discuss this in some other forums. But the other thing I'd like to discuss with the minister is this, with penalty rebates. Because it is said, even here on the platform, that an opportunity ^ because we are bound by some international conventions ^ could be that a financial compensation was given to the perpetrators who have to sit full time, that is, instead of giving them a discount, one might say. And there I would like to ask the government: is it not a consideration that we should then make ourselves, so to actually say yes to it and provide financial compensation? We just have to remember that some of these gang boys owe millions of kroner in advance, so maybe it's a small offshoot of the debt they already have. So it may not be of great importance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135052	It is true that this possibility also exists. I feel bad thinking that there are perpetrators to whom we should start paying money because they are through the justice system. And that is why, notwithstanding the fact that I would have preferred to do so in addition to the fact that, to the extent that we reduce the penalty debate to what we are forced to do by the European Convention on Human Rights, this is a better solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135119	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135122	Thank you. Now I am not going to continue the discussion that is under way, but I believe that debt imprisonment was abolished 100 years ago, as I recall. So this could easily be the way you're going to re-introduce it. What I would ask the Minister to address is the situation in which we now have a penalty rebate which can be applied to a certain extent and which in future can only be applied to a small extent. Does the Minister have any idea what the difference really is? Does the Minister have any idea how much this really means? What I am referring to is, of course, if the ECHR does not achieve the same result that we are achieving today, so that the proposal alone has led the courts to deal with this problem for the future, with the resultant length of proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135218	I do not have consolidated empirical studies of what is happening now. As far as I remember, but it is after memory, the Kolding court has carried out a verification of the extent to which a penalty is being imposed, in what situations and in what forms of crime are being committed. When I have no more solid basis, I do not think I can answer what this change will mean either. The committee may pursue it in the committee's work, but, taken from memory, there is in fact no such overall national inventory of the execution of the penalty debate. As I said, there's that study that, as far as I remember, is from Kolding.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135302	The questioner apostates. Then it will be Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135308	Thank you. Such an entirely justified concern is raised by the SF, by the Conservatives, and it is also mentioned by the Minister himself, namely that reducing the possibility of a penalty rebate increases the burden on our criminal services. And I would like to come to the Minister and the government a little bit with some of what is already part of the police agreement, namely that we have promised each other that, following the police agreement, we are looking at how we can ensure that more foreigners, in other words foreign nationals, who are convicted of crime, are expelled after their sentence. Today it is the case that our prisons are very much filled with criminal foreigners and many of them are revenants. So this will definitely mean that we will have more room in prisons... everything else equal... if those people don't have to sit in Danish prisons again and again. It will also mean that we have fewer Danish victims. That is what our goal is. However, in terms of increasing the capacity of our Danish prisons, there is actually an opportunity here, and I therefore need the government to come up with what is already in the agreement here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135417	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135418	That is absolutely right. Well, the analysis is right. If we can avoid more criminal foreigners in our prisons, there will be better space in our prisons. One of the ways to go is to continue the work which is going on, and which the committee is well aware of, all the time I have been in consultation about it. I even believe in several rounds and explained what initiatives we are taking in order to send the criminal foreigners home to serve in the country of origin and what problems we are encountering. This is a track that we must pursue in the future as well. It is true, then, that part of what lies in the agreement is also the question of looking at the increased possibility of expulsion, an element which, as far as I remember, has been put together in such a way that, unlike the rest of the agreement, there is no obligation on all parties to go hand in hand with that part. First of all, it was a consideration that was taken into account, not least Enhedslisten and Radicals, perhaps also SF • I am more in doubt about that and that element will also be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135521	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135523	Thank you. But it's been a long time since we made the deal here. I know it's on the table of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, but we still haven't seen anything about this. And when we get figures from the minister who shows that it is only just over 60%. I believe that this is one of the places where there will be a broad majority in favour of the fact that it might be possible to look at whether it is not quite reasonable to demand that if you are going to be in Denmark, you should at least not commit rape when you are here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135554	I think we can agree on that in broad terms, that is to say, it is very sensible to make such demands. It is good to hear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is well aware of this and that the process is progressing satisfactorily.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135612	Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135615	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for recognising that there is a challenge with the courts and the length of the proceedings, the waiting time that is involved in getting his case before the courts. It can be a huge mental burden, whether it is a personal crime or a different form of crime, or whether it is a civil action. That is why I just want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is prepared for us to give more resources to our judicial system when we are going to negotiate the multi-year agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135651	As I said in the speech before, additional resources have already been added to the courts. It is not something that solves the pressure under which the courts are under, but, as I tried to say, I believe that, if we are really fortunate and capable, during this four-year period, we will be able to find ways of ensuring better resources and working conditions for both our police, our prosecutor, our courts and our criminal services. So without having to negotiate it here and without having been in the details of it, I think it is hard to avoid making a multi-year agreement for the courts, which also ensures that the courts have more resources to deal with those cases that quickly get through the other parts of the criminal justice chain.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135736	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135738	I fully agree that we must, of course, look at the whole chain of criminal proceedings, and we are in the process of doing so. I would just like to acknowledge that the Minister recognizes that more resources must also be allocated to the courts, because that is something we simply cannot avoid. Now we have dealt very well with an excellent police agreement, and we are now in some criminal justice negotiations, which I have an expectation, or at least hope, that we will resolve, so that there will be better conditions, especially for those working in the field of criminal justice, and so that we can resolve the problem of proof. And then I also hope that a responsible government will go to the negotiations on the courts with the view that more funding is needed to reduce the waiting times considerably.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135829	I think that was mostly a comment, but let me say without going into details about the debate we are having on the state of the criminal services at the moment that all the parties, and indeed the author's party, have, without exception, reported positively and said that there is a challenge here that we have to deal with together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135847	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135902	The debate is open. We are giving the floor first to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026135924	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. Being subjected to stalking can have enormous consequences both for one's own life and for one's health, and it can also seriously affect not only one's own everyday life but also one's environment: one's workplace and one's family and friends' lives. There is no doubt that stalking is a serious crime with major consequences for the victim. That is why it is absolutely essential that we, as a society, have effective protection against this kind of harassment and persecution, just as it is absolutely essential that we stand ready with the right support for those who are being subjected to stalking. With the bill that we are dealing with first here today, we now have a separate provision in the criminal law on stalking. This is a provision which does not exist in the criminal code today. Under the rules currently in force, it is possible to punish only if a restraining order has already been issued against the perpetrator or if the offence is also a violation of the provisions of the criminal code. This bill, on the other hand, gives us an independent provision whereby you will be able to punish for stalking, even if no restraining order or a ban on residence has been issued in advance or has been suspended. It is basically quite reasonable if we take into account how serious and intrusive this type of crime is. In addition to a provision in the Criminal Code, the bill also contains a number of initiatives designed to strengthen aid to victims of stalking. Victims of stalking must, like e.g. injured persons in cases of violence could have an assistance lawyer to support them during the criminal proceedings and they should have the right to be informed when the perpetrator is released or released from prison. I have no doubt that this proposal is an important step in the fight against stalking and, of course, it is a bill which the Social Democrats can warmly support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140125	Thank you. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140129	Thank you. I don't want to hide the fact that this is a really big day for the victims of stalking. There are many good things in the political agreement we have reached. I just want to express one concern, and that is that with the closure of the National Prevention Centre, stalking will be something that needs to be dealt with in the police circles in the future. As we heard at the conference that was held, there were 500 restraining orders in some police circles and in others 100 before the process was, as it were, continued. So there is a great diversity between police circles. Is the Socialist rapporteur not concerned that with the step we are taking with the abolition of the National Prevention Centre, we are in fact still getting away from a very uneven treatment of stalking victims around Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140221-2	First of all, perhaps I would just like to thank you for the broad agreement we have reached on this issue. I agree that this will be of great importance. Now it is not a conference that I myself took part in, but I understand the concern more generally. It can of course be said that in many cases it is a question which lies outside the various police circles, which practices are taking place. It is clear that we there must follow closely, that the practice also becomes the same, so that, wherever you fall victim to stalking, it has the same consequence, and so that the police follow the same practice, in relation to when you raise a case. I think that is an obvious focus of further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140302	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140304	Indeed, I am concerned that this gives an even more uneven practice than that which already exists, and we also see that knowledge sharing is not really spreading. For example: Esbjerg had this quite fantastic project, where municipalities and police worked with the Danish Stalking Center, and we now spread it to one police group. So how will the Socialists in the future make sure that we have a uniform practice in police circles when there is no longer the National Police Department as the supreme authority and National Prevention Centre to create that uniformity so that, as a victim, you can expect the same thing wherever you go?
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140342-2	But there will certainly also be other parts of the criminal code where there is no national superstructure and where, therefore, you do not have that security. I think we should follow that closely. It's not a question of this bill, but it's a question of the way the police are organised, too, in relation to the bill we dealt with before, about the new organisation of the police. After all, it is the task of the police to ensure that, wherever you are exposed to a crime, you receive the same treatment and that the criminals are prosecuted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140419	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140435	Thank you. I always have to get down after the Social Democrat rapporteur. It's deeply disgraceful. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is an excellent proposal the government is making. It strengthens the legal position of those who fall victim to stalking, a crime that we have probably seen too mildly in the past. At any rate, we have had the rule of stalking placed in what is called the restraining law, popularly said, and now it is being brought forward in the penal code. The most important thing is that the stalker can now be pursued, even if no warning has already been given by the police. This is certainly an important element. Another important element is that on the day the stalker may be released from prison, information is given to the injured person, such as the former wife. And a third element is that the injured person is appointed an aid lawyer. It is quite a terrible situation that they are in, and many different approaches can then be envisaged from the point of view of the welfare lawyer. An important element that has not been emphasised is that we should at least go some way to finding it is that the stalker can now be held in custody if, of course, the grounds of suspicion are in order and the conditions for law enforcement are in place. That is also an excellent thing. So I can only say briefly that the Left is happy to support the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140622	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026140647	Thank you for that, President. In the Danish People's Party, we have been working for several years for stalking to have its own provision in the criminal code, and we also proposed it over 10 years ago, when we tried to impose a bill on the then government to table a separate provision on the criminalisation of stalking, and that a definition of stalking should be introduced. Now we are finally here 10 years after today and, as they say, better late than never. In the Danish People's Party we are very concerned about having a separate stalking paragraph, and we also fought for the Dansk Stalking Center to get a permanent grant for their work for and with people who need help in this area. Every year, 100,000 Danes are subjected to stalking, where they are systematically and persistently subjected to persecution, harassment from, for example. a former partner, a date, a friend or a colleague, and it can have great psychological, physical and social consequences to be subjected to stalking, and it can also be very intrusive in your everyday life. Stalking can be among other things. help make it difficult for victims to do their job, and many find that it restricts one's leisure life and relations with family and friends and also participation in the rest of society. Stalking can therefore have high costs not only for the stalking people, but also for the children, family and employers of those at risk, and it is estimated that approx. 60,000 children in stalking exposed families may be involved and affected by the stalking. According to the Danish People's Party, Stalking is an unacceptable interference in the freedom and right of the individual to participate freely in society, and it is a behavior that we should not tolerate in Denmark. The proposal, which is a broad political agreement, contains, among other things, a separate provision, as has been mentioned, and in addition, victims of stalking have the right to have an aid lawyer appointed in the same way as victims of violence. In addition, the victim must have the right to be informed when the perpetrator is to be released or is on leave, and then video questioning of children under the age of 15 is also possible if the child or one of the child's relatives is injured in a case of stalking, where the suspect is also the child's closest. There may also be detention in the form of a so-called law enforcement arrest if there is a particularly strong suspicion of violation of the proposed stalking provision and the other conditions for detention are met. This draft law introduces a four-week period of appeal into the restraining order in order to prevent proceedings relating to infringement of, in particular, the restraining order from being delayed and thereby subjecting victims to additional burdens. Most of the consultations are also extremely positive. However, Berlingske recently described that the National Association of Defence Attorneys thought that the law could be abused in matters relating to parental authority and association, and here of course I would also like the Minister to confirm that this is something that we take into account, so that if you could use the law in any way whatsoever, then it is also something that the Minister wants to keep an eye on, and ensure that you do not use the law in this way, and that it is not the intention that you can say that you can give parents the tools to fight each other in a custody or co-operation matter. Because that is certainly not the intention of this legislation. Denmark is also one of the few countries which has been left without a separate stalking clause, and this also means that stalking assumed in Denmark has not had the same legal protection as for example. have had in Sweden, Norway and Great Britain, and that is precisely why we have reached a large and broad political agreement, and I am very pleased about that. And we look forward to improving the area and we look forward to the work of the committee. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026141045	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026141057	I think it is absolutely fantastic that today we are on the way to adopting a proper criminalisation of stalking. This is something that we in the SF have been fighting for for a long time, and that is why, of course, we support the entire bill that lies here. Up to 2009, when SF made its first proposal to combat stalking it was 12 years ago I had met victims who were completely broken down and who were frustrated because the police couldn't really make the stalkers stop. They didn't have the right tools in the toolbox either, you might say, and I also think that the police were frustrated by the possibilities of being able to do something in these cases. I also remember how it was difficult to get attention on this agenda, because how bad could it be to receive unwanted messages? So, the victims hadn't been beaten, understood that it wouldn't be so bad. I also remember how victims were advised directly wrong: just ignore it delete the messages, forget it, then it probably stops. Of course it didn't, but the consequence was that the victims had the evidence thrown away. Fortunately, today we know better. We know that stalking is an insanely harmful behavior and that it affects the victims extremely much. Victims have to change everyday routines, they are insecure a long way along the way, and in the worst case they risk ending up as a social matter broken down by anxiety, ptsd, depression. And some of them are getting out of the labour market. After all, the 2009 proposal came up with a work that gave us the possibility of a restraining order. That is not quite what I wanted, but it was a clear improvement. Later followed several suggestions • In fact, the SF has made a total of four of them. However, it was only on 12 June last year, when we discussed the motion for a resolution B 167 which again dealt with improving conditions for people exposed to stalking and a proper criminalisation of stalking, that we had a Minister of Justice who was in favour of criminalising stalking and a proper clause in the criminal code. A new work was set in motion, and that is what ended up providing the framework for a political agreement and the legislative proposal that we have here today. The SF's resolution at that time contained six elements. Firstly, there was a desire to introduce a separate stalking clause into the penal code, which both criminalises and defines stalking. This will give the police a unique opportunity to intervene earlier in the cases, because the law on restraining orders is very slow to use typically to collect material to obtain a restraining order, then that restraining order must be broken, and it must be broken many times before anything really happens. It goes without saying that it is a slow process in which the victims have to endure the stalking for a long time. That is why this proposal is so important. And then it also gives victims the right to an aid lawyer, that is to say, someone who can follow you under the case itself and support and guide and guide it is also enormously important for the victims. Secondly, the proposal called for more treatment for those who are accused, convicted or granted a restraining order in connection with stalking. Because putting people in prison is not an end in itself. It is a goal to make the stalking stop. In fact, behind every stalker there is also a person with an obsessive pattern of behavior who needs help if it is not to continue to require treatment. Thirdly, the resolution also contained a proposal to extend what is called the Esbjerg model to the whole country. It is about the police and the municipality and the Danish Stalking Center working together to make a holistic effort about the victims. They have accomplished this in Esbjerg, and now it is being tested in Southeast Jutland's Police Department. Fourthly, we wanted an unlimited address protection for stalking victims. Fifthly, we wanted an evaluation of the use of immediate restraining measures, which had never worked very well. Sixthly, we wanted information on the stalking victim at the time of the perpetrator's release and exit. So it is not without pride that I note that the vast majority of elements are included in the political agreement, and some of them will then be implemented here today. It took 12 years to get here, but we found the way. So is the game over? It's probably not, but we've taken some significant steps together; we've set up the special teams in the police settlement that focus on crimes in close relationships... violence, rape, stalking, honour-related crimes... that have not been given the necessary focus in the past, and then this proposal. I think that is a good thing, and it has been necessary, because no one should feel insecure in their close relations. Then I would also like to thank you, Lise Linn Larsen, who probably sits somewhere on the TV screen and comes with us. They have if anyone from the Danish Stalking Center ran us on the doors to get this in place • you also have a really big share in this. Congratulations on the fact that we have almost achieved our goal. Finally, I would like to say that we are still lacking free psychological assistance for the victims, and I have a great concern that it is no longer the National Prevention Centre that ensures the uniform distribution, but it should not take the joy away from the fact that this is indeed a great day.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026141627	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026141631	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur is pleased here today that we have made a step further in this work and I am pleased that the rapporteur says that we are almost in the end. Because we simply have to look at this proposal and work on some of the wordings if it is to be a success. The rapporteur himself mentions that one of the reasons why there are challenges with the restraining order is that out there in the police circles, you simply do not know how many times this restraining order has to be violated in order for there to be a sanction. I note in the hearing answer to the draft law here today that, among other things, the Council of Lawyers. states that we need to make a political decision on what systematic and continuous contact is. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that in this committee work we are just digging deeper into a spade, so that we do not just have a piece of legislation where the intention is the very best, but so that we can also clarify exactly what stalking is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026141741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026141741-2	I actually understand what the rapporteur is saying to me: would it not be nice to have a fixed limit so that you knew when to take action and with what? I actually see the idea of that. On the other hand, I would like to warn against the fact that we are giving it so specifically. Because there may be few violations where you can say that the stalking has been violent and intense and where you should take action earlier than if it has been, what can be said, less intense and over a little longer. I think we should be careful not to define it too much, because there will then be some cases going through, but there is a risk that we will be in the same situation if we do not define it. So I don't know what the good thing is to do here. I have only one wish, and that is that the police can take action in the past and that they actually use that tool too, and I think that very much requires training, which was also part of what we actually started with the police settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026141843	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026141844	What I'm warning you about is just that we get a restraining clause 2, a paragraph where there's so much rubber band that you don't know how to apply it out there. We're all here with the same wish. But what it takes is for us to provide a tool where we are ready to define so precisely what we mean, so that, in fact, out there, where it should be used, you know what it is, the purpose of this has been. I fully understand that the courts must always have the final judgment. It is not the case that I want there to be a minimum limit for anything, but I am just very aware, when I read the consultation note and the consultation answers from this, that we need to clarify more than we have done so far, what we want, and I hope the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party will be involved in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026141941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026141942	Well, I'm always gonna help you learn more about a problem, and I also have only one wish, and that's that we can use these tools and help the victims, and that the police know how to deal with this. However, when I raise a flag in this way in relation to defining it too much, it is because I may be concerned whether it can be a brake on the fact that you can actually take up some matters which have been short but very intense and where, in principle, you need to take action very quickly and at an early stage. But let us take a look at it, because I am not entirely opposed to the idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026142019	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026142030	Thank you very much. Stalking is systematic and persistent persecution of individuals. It can be physical, and it can be digital. Stalking is harassment, it is psychological violence, and victims of stalking need better help. This is not a new phenomenon, but it has just not been taken seriously enough. So now we do, because with this bill, stalking gets its very own place in the penal code. Up to 100,000 people are subjected to stalking each year, and half to such an extent that they have had to change their daily routines. Stalking is therefore a restriction on the freedom of the individual and can have major psychological, physical and social consequences for the person exposed to the stalking. Today is therefore a very big and important day for the victims of stalking, and this bill contains several elements, but the key point is that stalking is now being written in and will have its very own place in the penal code. In the Radical Left, we can highly recommend the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026142149	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026142159	As Mrs Lund, our rapporteur, could not be here today, I should like to say that she is very pleased that we are having a battle for equality today. Because when we criminalise stalking, that is also what is on the agenda. Therefore, it was also quite a surprise to read the commentary of the Ministry of Justice's hearing table, where the Ministry of Justice does not recognise that this bill has gender implications, because of course it does. However, regardless of whether the government itself is aware that they are actually fighting for equality, it is a good thing that this is happening. Unfortunately, as has been said, there are some types of crime that mainly affect women, and at the same time it is primarily men who commit these crimes. Stalking is one of them, and we know from organisations working in this area that the legal protection of victims has been far too poor for years. The protection we have been able to offer in rare cases has been far from adequate, especially since the possibility of enforcing a restraining order and the possibility of sanctioning infringements have been very limited. It is therefore very positive that we ourselves criminalise stalking today and that there is a certain definition in the law of the concept, so that digital stalking is also included. It is now rare that a stalker just sits in the sand in front of a house and waits. Unfortunately, the possibilities of harassing and the methods of doing so have become much, much wider. With this bill, we are getting rid of a type of crime that mainly affects women, and if in practice it leads to fewer victims of stalking, or if the cases in which stalking is still happening come to an end more quickly, we have done much for women's rights and for women's ability to live in society under the same conditions as men. Obviously, the Enhedslist supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026142349	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026142359	Thank you. I have looked forward very much to discussing this proposal today, because it is a very, very important proposal. There are so many good elements in this proposal. Many of them have already mentioned several of the previous speakers, and that is why I would just like to highlight some of the elements that we in the Conservative People's Party believe should be given particular attention in the forthcoming legislative process on strengthened action against stalking. In the consultation note, a number of actors point out that the constituent elements of the independent stalking clause should be defined more precisely. The Lawyer's Board states that it should be specified in the provision by examples when it is a question of stalking, i.e. what kind of contact is needed in order for something to be described as stalking. We must be quite clear here on the part of the Danish Parliament about what it takes for it to be stalking and for the infringement to be the subject of the new provision in § 242. It is very important that we, as legislators, have a clear framework for when we are talking about stalking. When we use the concept of systematic and continuous contact in § 242, what do we mean? I would like to hear the Minister's reply to that. As legislators, we need to consider carefully what can be described as a trifle and when there is practically systematic and continuous contact so that the courts can read exactly what our intention is for the independent provision we are making in the criminal code. The courts must have a firm basis on which to exercise their discretion, and that is why we need to clarify this here. I hope the Minister will agree with that, so that we have a useful provision and not just a good intention on a piece of paper. Although we do not deal directly with § 21 (1). I should nevertheless like to mention the fact that the provision is linked to both stalking and psychic violence. There are far too many examples today of a stalker being able to break his restraining order up to several hundred times without having legal consequences. That is simply not fair to the victim, and that has by no means been the intention of the legislation. The intention of granting a restraining order is not I hope that the Minister agrees with us Conservatives that, following this procedure, we can revisit the restraining order so that we can correct the biased practices that have arisen and then send a clear political signal that it is not intended to grant a restraining order that it can be violated up to several hundred times without any consequences. We simply cannot be familiar with those who are subjected to stalking. The last thing I want to mention from this excellent proposal is the penalty framework. We in the Conservative People's Party think it is reasonable that it is three years old. We also believe that it makes good sense to return to section 22. 1, where the infringement of a restraining order has only a penalty of two years. It doesn't really make sense that the penalty for violating your restraining order is lower than for stalking. Both are for us to see in the same category as psychological violence, and therefore we should look at whether it does not make sense to uniform penalties. With these comments, I would like to thank the Minister and the other parties to the agreement for this work. This is a very, very good proposal which we in the Conservatives wholeheartedly support, and I should like to welcome from the new citizens and say that it is time and that they support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026142802	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance or the Christian Democrats. That's why we're moving on to the Attorney General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026142817	Thank you very much for the very good comments, which in various ways have described the issue that we are addressing here. I have been impressed by the fact that it has been described as being subjected to stalking as being locked up in an invisible prison, the uncertainty that there is; the fact that someone else is in control and that you do not know when you will be confronted with it. There are a number of good elements here. Moreover, there are also a number of good elements in the understanding we have about all the initiatives contained in this, namely better help for victims of stalking. In fact, I think that the Radical Left rapporteur is very well hit when she says in her rapporteur's speech that it is absolutely crucial here that stalking should have its own paragraph in the penal code. The other initiatives are also important, but that is what is seriously important. Then there have been a few comments. It is not because it has to take a long time, but let me start with the comments of Enhedslisten's representative. I know that it was a speech that was read out and so on, and I could sense Mrs Rosa Lund's trick without her being here in the form of the comment that the government does not know that the proposal has gender implications. Well, here we are in a piece of legislation, because it is the case that when we make a legislative proposal, we are obliged to assess whether the draft law has gender implications. What that assessment is about is whether the provisions of the criminal code apply to everyone or not. And of course, this provision applies on exactly the same conditions for men and women. And in the technical assessment it is not crucial whether one sex is to be expected to be over-represented as wronged or not. But that doesn't change the fact that this regulation of stalking, for example. the regulation of the provision of consent in connection with rape. These are some of the flagships which make it possible to say that initiatives are being taken here which can be of crucial importance, on the one hand, for prosecution and, on the other hand, for the perception of equality between men and women. It sends out a signal as to what kind of way one can and will accept to associate with one another. So there is certainly attention to the fact that this is a legislative proposal which will be of such help to especially women who are subjected to stalking. Then we are asked, and it is the Conservative rapporteur in particular, whether we are not out in a provision that can be difficult to get quite ahold of, that is, what the points of reference are here. As the stalking is defined in the bill, there must be systematic and continuous contact, persecution or harassment suitable for violating another person's peace. This means that there must be a certain duration and intensity. But that does not mean that there must be a great many cases. There may be few cases if the intensity is present. That was one of the criticisms of the hearings. We have tried in the comments to the draft law. I am sure that the rapporteurs have also taken note of a number of examples of what might be included in the provision, in order to give a signal to the court and other legal practitioners as to what is envisaged under this provision. I agree with the SF's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who says that we should be careful to write it too firmly, because the diversity in cases where we are going to stand here, as in other areas, is so great that if we believe that we can capture reality in a fixed framework, then we have too many times come across the fact that the framework we were given does not take it all in. That should not change the fact that it can be done better in committee work, and if there is something that needs to be clarified and so on, then we are, of course, completely open to it because we share the ambition to have a provision that is as good as possible. Then, among other things, there were... from the Danish People's Party's rapporteur asked whether there is a risk that false declarations will be made, in other words that it will be used to harass the other way around etc. We have good people in the police circles who must and can distinguish between false reports and cases of stalking. Of course, the evidence must also be lifted. However, if that is not enough, it should also be noted that we have also agreed on a new training offer, which should dress our policemen even better to deal with stalking cases. This can be countered by the criticism that there is. So thank you very much for the good remarks. This is an important piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026143348	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no brief remarks to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026143416	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026143425	Thank you. The legislative proposal that we are about to discuss is intended to implement those parts of the so-called Modernisation Directive which concern legislation in the field of justice. And, as the bill shows, in the spring of 2020, the Minister of Justice set up a committee composed of a wide range of authorities and stakeholders from both the consumer and the business community. Their task was to make recommendations on how the directive was implemented most appropriately in Danish law. The committee made a number of recommendations in July, and the legislative proposal that we are discussing here and on the part relating to the implementation of the directive largely corresponds to the recommendations made by the committee. In addition, the draft law also contains amendments that do not follow directly as an implementation of the Modernisation Directive. The modernisation directive is basically aimed at ensuring better enforcement and modernisation of consumer protection rules in the EU. We stick to the draft law here as a starting point for the minimum requirements of the directive, but we also continue to apply Danish law on a number of points and thus go beyond the minimum requirements of the directive. This is to maintain our very high level of consumer protection in Denmark, also compared to many other European countries. This is true just to mention one example: our ban on door sales in Denmark. The draft law proposes that the consumer contract law and the consumer purchase rules in the contract law should be amended to comply with the modernisation directive. There are, I suppose, a lot of technical details in this bill, and I will not go through them all in the same way Slavically, but just say that what we are dealing with here in general is adjusting the scope of the Consumer Agreement Act, so it is clear that the law applies, even when consumers pay for digital services with their personal data or their data. In addition, several changes are made to the disclosure obligations of the Consumer Agreement Act in order to strengthen the obligation to provide information, and the draft law also provides for an adjustment of the rules on a consumer's right of withdrawal so that it becomes clear what the parties have of obligations in relation to the processing of personal data and the return of digital services. Finally, there is the need to increase the use of fines for infringements of the rules, which include: This means that several provisions of the Consumer Agreement Act will be sanctioned by fines. This proposal follows, as I said, on the basis of thorough committee work, which takes into account both what is important on the one hand, namely that we have the highest possible level of consumer protection and, on the other hand, consideration of business. In this way, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026143723	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026143737	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, which, due to the second meeting here at Christiansborg, has no opportunity to participate in this item on the agenda. The proposal covers 107 pages and it is exceptionally complex. And I might as well be honest: we should be here on the platform and say that I have trouble understanding the individual provisions of the proposal. This does not mean, of course, that we should not be dealing with it in this Chamber, and thank God there are many others who can but summa summarum we on the Left want to have a technical review of the officials of the Ministry of Justice to be absolutely sure of what is in the proposal here. However, it seems that this is an implementation of the EU modernisation directive in Danish law, and that sounds like something we are voting in favour of. I might as well reveal that now. In addition, the proposal has its background in an expert committee which has looked at the modernisation directive and translated it into the paragraphs that we now have. Immediately, it appears that the proposal will adapt the scope of the Consumer Agreement Act, which will now also deal with digital services. In the world in which we live, we must say that at least there seems to be a need for this. On this basis, there will also be a clause in the Consumer Agreement Act which makes it easier to cancel current subscriptions. We certainly cannot object to that either. It was a proposal which the Left itself made in an earlier session but which was not adopted. There will be an increased obligation to provide information for economic operators, for example when you enter into an agreement with a consumer in which the price is personalised, as stated in the proposal, i.e. in line with the purchasing power of consumers. We must therefore be told about this. That certainly sounds reasonable to me. Of course, when you look at it, there are also provisions which were actually missing and which, in my view, could well be reviewed. It is the case in the Consumer Agreement Act that there is a ban on unsolicited telephone calls or unsolicited calls in general when traders want to enter into consumer agreements with consumers, except for this proposal are telephone enquiries about books, magazine subscriptions, insurance, rescue services, etc. The exceptions are therefore provisions on which many people are going to enter into an agreement on the telephone, and I think that this is indeed a matter of concern, namely that we continue to exclude these four elements from the usual rule of prohibiting unsolicited access to consumer contracts at this time. Last but not least, as also reiterated by the Social Democrat rapporteur, the proposal now also contains a more structured system of fines in relation to infringements of the provisions referred to here, and we can only welcome that. So summa summarum: we would like a technical review in the Legal Affairs Committee of the proposal. However, there is strong evidence that the Left is going to endorse the proposal, which is the implementation of a directive and made on the basis of expert committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026144107	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026144124	Thank you. Consumers and businesses are deeply dependent on each other, one cannot exist without the other, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party are always aware that when there are changes in consumer legislation, it is therefore important that both parties are satisfied. Because if it is something that directly bothers companies, we know that they are compensating for their troubles by raising prices, and then both parties have lost. And that is why we in the Danish People's Party have put a great deal of emphasis on the fact that Danish Business and Danish Industry are also largely positive about the bill here. The proposal is, of course, both a transposition of the New Deal for Consumers directive into Danish law and some amendments to the Consumer Agreement Act. For example: It is suggested that a consumer is not only a consumer when he pays with his or her money, but also in relation to his or her personal data. It can, for example, be done. If you are on Facebook and see an ad for an astrologer who will give you a free horoscope, then you have to enter your information with name, address and telephone number and supposedly the date of birth and the moment you do so, you are also considered as a consumer and therefore also subject to the same legal certainty as the consumer. In addition, it must also be clearly stated if you give what is called personalised prices. In other words, it may be a company that national makes hole wall insulation by local craftsmen around, and the consumer must then provide information on how many square meters the house is on and where it is located. Then it is certainly certain that the offer you get if you live in Lolland Municipality will be significantly cheaper than the offer you get if you live in Gentofte Municipality at the same number of square meters, because the artisan prices are different in the two municipalities. And that means that it is important then that information is provided that there is a personalised price that you get from the information you have given. The same can also be true in some less ethical cases. If, for example, you're gonna have to... must have made a will and the law firm to do so is to research on one's facebook profile and can see that the only thing you care about is houses of more than 15 million. kr., Wesselton diamonds and travel to the Maldives, and then make a price based on it, then they must inform them that it is a personalised price. So transparency is important. It is also necessary to indicate whether the consumer is dealing on an online portal with a private person or with a trader, so that the consumer also knows his legal certainty better. In addition, there is provision for max. 4% by means of a fine imposed on the turnover of widespread offences, not by minor wrongdoing, but by means of bad faith, or by means of widespread wrongdoing. O All this we support in the Danish People's Party. We also think, in line with many of the consultation responses, that it is important that online market portals also provide information on which country you are dealing with. Therefore, when shopping on some used market portal, it is very important to know whether the sender is from Germany or China, in terms of how legal certainty is provided. There we in the Danish People's Party could appeal for it to come in too. In general terms, the proposal here is a strengthening of consumer rights, with no significant cost to businesses. So we in the Danish People's Party can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026144531	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. That is why I welcome the next rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Ina Strjer-Schmidt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026144542	Thank you. The draft law has, among other things, been adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. The aim is to transpose certain parts of the Modernisation Directive into Danish law. Of the positive changes for the consumer it can, among other things: It states that the rules on consumer contracts are adapted so that they are explicitly applied to the purchase of digital content and services, so that the same rules will be applied to a greater extent regardless of whether the consumer contract concerns a product, digital content or digital services. In addition, it is gratifying that it is proposed to impose fines in respect of infringements of several consumer protection rules and in cases where traders use unfair contractual terms which are contrary to the contract law. So in the SF we are positive about the improvements that the draft law brings to the consumer, but we would also like to examine in the committee's work whether conditions can be further improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026144630	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and so I welcome the rapporteur on the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026144647	Thank you. This bill implements those parts of the modernisation directive that concern the area of the Ministry of Justice. So, overall, the modernisation of consumer rights is ensured while companies and businesses do not suffer from it. The draft law consists of a large number of technical details, and that is why I support my colleague, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen's request for a technical review, regardless of the radical left backing the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026144726	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. That is the next rapporteur, Mrs Jette Gottlieb, and that is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026144735	Thank you. As Mrs Rosa Lund cannot be present, I would like to say instead of her that it may not surprise anyone that the Enhedslisten is not happy with directives and rules that have to be enforced by the European Union. However, since it is not Denmark's membership of the European Union that we are discussing today, I must spare the rapporteur more of that drawer. However, specifically in relation to this bill, the EU is actually promoting consumer protection. It is positive and it is positive that we change the rules so that they are up-to-date and take into account the situations we are facing today with the new digital opportunities. In addition, some of the situations we have seen are also being dealt with where traders cleverly entice consumers to enter into unfair contracts. It is only fair to be able to punish companies that try to cheat consumers. The Enhedslisten can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026144829	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. In fact, I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber who have indicated that they want a rapporteur's speech, so I can give the floor to the Minister for Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026144843	Thank you for your comments. It is just now that I did not have to say more than that, but on the other hand it would be a pity for all the listeners who have appeared and have taken an interest in this first reading of the consumer contract bill, which, as has also been said, implements the modernisation directive and which, moreover, contains a number of additional amendments. What is being tried here, and which I think is quite sensible, is something that has also been mentioned in various ways by various rapporteurs, namely that we want both high levels of consumer protection and, at the same time, want good conditions for business, and the draft law must ensure that we have the right balance with the regulation that we then implement. Some other things happen that I think are important steps. The Socialist rapporteur also pointed this out, and I believe that the rapporteur of the Left also pointed this out, namely that it is made clear that the Consumer Agreement Act applies when consumers pay for digital services with their personal data. Because the truth is that personal data is of immense value to these digital services, which is why it is important that we say that it is also a payment and should be viewed as such. It was mentioned by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and I also think it is important that a trader should disclose if the price is personalised, i.e. it is determined by what person you are facing, and additional information requirements are laid down for online markets. In addition, there are also regulations on increased penalty sanctions. All of this is sensible. There are also some elements which are outside the scope of the Modernisation Directive, among others. As Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, the question of making it easier to cancel current subscriptions, i.e. that one should be able to cancel the same place as one has entered into it. It can be very difficult to cancel a subscription to a newspaper if you have entered into the online subscription agreement; then you can wait an incredible amount of time in line with relatively large media houses before you can cancel your subscription. This is now being settled, and I think that is quite reasonable. Technical reviews are usually not something ministers appreciate not because it is not relevant to do technical reviews, but because it may be a nice tiring affair to attend but in this case I actually think it is quite relevant when several members of Parliament ask whether we should not have a technical review of this bill. I am very, very happy to do so, because, as has been said, it is a very technical proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026145148	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no brief remarks to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that this bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026145221	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Alexander Grandt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026145229	Thank you for the floor, President. Today we are dealing with L 27, which is a collection of a number of different legislative amendments. In social democracy, we are very concerned that our legislation is clear, to understand and to make sense to those whose daily lives are affected by legislation. If that is not the case, here in the Danish Parliament we have a task in cleaning up, correcting and making life a little easier out in reality. Although L 27 is a collection of relatively technical amendments, it should not be underestimated that it is a step in that direction. L 27 contains a number of amendments to the law on legal certainty, the service law and the law on combating juvenile delinquency. Allow me to highlight just a few areas where the legislative proposal will make the rules clearer, administration simpler and everyday life easier. The draft law will include future expenditure on health care in the calculation of the price of accommodation. It relieves the administrative burden of the offers, as in future it should not be calculated and sent as two separate bills, but only one. The changes remove the negative incentive that today can act as a barrier to municipalities creating specialised offers if the municipality cannot use all the seats for its own citizens. We are glad that this is so, among other things. is supported by Danish Physiotherapists, who write in a hearing answer that they consider it positive that the proposal will remove an obstacle to the creation of specialised services in the municipalities. With the changes in the rules for inter-municipal reimbursement in the law on legal certainty, we avoid misunderstandings and misinterpretations of the law and ensure that there is a link between visitation and financial responsibility in the social field. With the amendments to the Services Act, the proposal will clarify a number of rules, procedures and tasks such as: concerns the Advisory Practice Committee of the Ankestyrelsen, the Municipal Disability Council and the Central Disability Council. Finally, the draft law will correct errors and inappropriateities in the interaction between the law on combating juvenile delinquency and social law. In fact, the interaction has an unfortunate effect on the financing of expenditure on measures and deadlines for the handling of the decisions of the Youth Crime Board by the Ankestyrelsen. All these legislative changes may seem like minor and indifferent changes, which may not be of great importance. For example, is it... Difficult to make two bills instead of one? Yes, when many employees on offer can spend less time registering minutes and billing bills, time can be spent on citizens. It means something, too. In short, it will be easier for municipalities to offer the services they need. It will ultimately give more time to our skilled employees and it will provide better service for our citizens. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party can agree to the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026145541	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. According to my list, the rapporteur of the Left is now, but it is not the Member present in the Chamber who is the rapporteur on this matter, so I move on to the Danish People's Party, because I do not see the rapporteur from the Left present in the Chamber, so the rapporteur who should be here. The party is represented, thank you for that. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is on her way, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026145622	Thank you for that, President. Yes, the second bill also went very quickly, so it may be that you have been surprised. This bill deals with several impact changes, which may be a little difficult to see through, in relation to whether there are some inappropriate ones in it. The draft law contains a number of amendments to the law on legal certainty, the service law and the law on combating juvenile delinquency. The purpose of the draft law is, firstly, to authorise the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly to lay down rules whereby offers under the Services Act include in the calculation of the tariff for the offer the costs of certain types of health care interventions granted in connection with the stay of the offer. The thing about giving a minister authority in this Chamber is not something with which we have the very best experience. I also noticed in the hearing answer from Danish Occupation and Danske Physiotherapists, who also find this bill difficult to see through, which offers are covered by the bill. And Selveje Denmark finds it unclear whether a distinction is made between elderly people who receive health care in free care homes and citizens on social services. The Ankestyrelsen notes that expenditure under the Health Act is not covered by the rules on inter-municipal reimbursement laid down in Section 9c of the Legal Protection Act and that, in the few cases where there is access to inter-municipal reimbursement for expenditure under the Service Act, there will be no inter-municipal reimbursement for the part of the tariff constituting expenditure under the Health Act. So how is expenditure defined under the Health Act? What exactly is that? I guess there might be cut surfaces, gray areas. According to the Minister, the reason for submitting the bill is that the lack of impact changes have given rise to doubts as to the interpretation of the rules on inter-municipal reimbursement and the relationship with the rules on visitation powers and, on the other hand, give a false impression in the social sphere that the municipality in which an offer is located is subject in all cases to the costs of the citizen's stay on the offer, which must subsequently be covered by inter-municipal reimbursement. According to the Ministry, the draft law does not alter the distribution of tasks between offers, municipalities and regions, and therefore there is no question that the bill lays down or amends the health services to be provided to citizens on accommodation offers in the municipality of the municipality of the location. Nevertheless, in accordance with Danske Regioner's observations, the Ministry has requested that health services which, according to the applicable law, are to be provided to citizens on accommodation offers by the municipality of location, even after the adoption of the proposal, will have to be provided by the municipality concerned. I also note that Danske Handicap organisations are concerned in their hearing response that it can help municipalities to offer services and offers in their own municipality rather than to buy specialised services in other municipalities or regions, although this might be better for the citizen. We also share this concern in the Danish People's Party, and that is why, of course, in the committee work we should also have asked some follow-up questions about this bill. After all, in the blue block, we have put forward a proposal for the correct calculation of transfer prices to non-municipal care companies, proposing that an independent control unit be set up to ensure correct and uniform transfer prices for non-municipal providers of care for the elderly. I do not know if you could perhaps look at whether this is also a scheme that could be used in this area. I think that the draft law is very opaque and that is why, in the work of the committee, I would like to ask a number of clarification questions in order to be a little wiser, because it is a very technical legislative proposal. That is why I am not going to say what our position is yet, but wait for the answers we receive from the Minister in the work of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026150026	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Trine Torp. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026150036	Thank you. This bill is a bit of a mixed country trade, and the Socialist rapporteur was given a good deal of attention in his first speech from the platform and, in a way, also in a way that was understandable. So I will confine myself to commenting on some of the points and generally conclude that we in the SF are generally positive about the proposal. It is good that there will be a possibility of reimbursement of health costs, so that they do not affect the municipality of offer or that it does not offer places to other municipalities because they will then become too expensive in operation. In itself, it will risk reducing the range of offers. However, there are also some elements that we might wonder a little about. For example, the consultation answers mention that not all health services should be invoiced to the payment municipalities, and that is where we think we should look more at the Social and Health Managers' Association, i.e. the FSD, and the KL's proposal to introduce the right to inter-communal reimbursement for other health services provided to citizens on social offers. I see that the Ministry of Health is planning to deal with this through a change to the Health Act, so it is positive. In relation to the technical changes to the inter-municipal reimbursement, it is proposed that the individual provisions of Section 9c specify explicitly in which situations there are inter-municipal reimbursements under the Service Act, and here we would like to clarify the local economic consequences of this, as well as the new municipal expenditure in the area of juvenile delinquency. In general, SF is therefore positive about the draft law, but we have some points that we think should be looked at in the future committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026150226	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments either. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Christina Thorholm. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026150236	Thank you. Bill L 27 contains mainly a number of technical amendments which the Radical Left can endorse. We welcome the possibility for municipalities to include health costs for certain types of health care interventions in the tariff for specialized accommodation offers. We believe that the change will create less barriers to the interest of municipalities in establishing specialized services, because with the change the municipalities must recognise the internal health costs incurred by the offer. The draft law will remove one barrier for municipalities to establish specialised services, as the draft law only deals with internal health costs, which will have a minor impact, as municipalities will continue to have health costs imposed on citizens from other municipalities, for example. for home nursing and abuse treatment. We look forward to a legislative proposal to amend the Health Act later on, proposing the introduction of access to inter-municipal reimbursement for municipal health care, for example. for home nursing and alcohol and drug abuse treatment. There, in the Radical Left, we believe that there are much greater barriers in relation to the local authorities' interest in creating specialized services for citizens also in other municipalities. The Minister's reflections on the draft law show that the Minister wishes to remove economic barriers which could prevent the creation of specialised services which attract citizens from several municipalities. We would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is aware of other economic barriers which could prevent the creation or use of specialized offers across municipal boundaries. We wonder why the government has not taken similar initiatives to remove significant economic barriers that could be embedded in the equalisation system. Finally, the Radical Left would also like to hear why the Minister is making the present proposal, as we look forward to waiting for negotiations in the specialized social field later. It is clear from the consultation answers that there is a lack of clarity as to which benefits have been recognised and which have not been taken into account, and it is also clear that there are questions as to why the social services created under the freedom-care law are not incorporated here. In relation to the changes in the interaction between the law on combating juvenile delinquency and social law, we welcome the fact that the draft law must ensure a parallelity between the Ankestyrelsen's handling of complaints about children and the decisions of the Youth Crime Board and the decisions of the Youth Crime Board in relation to cases brought before courts. In addition, the appeal procedure will be corrected to ensure the same legal status for appeal proceedings in the Ankestyrelsen, regardless of whether the decision has been taken by the Children and Young People's Committee or the Youth Crime Board. Radicals are critical of the fact that children, young people and their parents do not have the same opportunity, in all decisions under the law on the fight against juvenile delinquency, to bring the cases before the Ankestyrelsen as under the Service Act, and in addition we in the Radical Left also stress that in the consultation answers it is noted that in the field of the law on combating juvenile delinquency, a lack of opinion should be addressed on issues of guilt for children and young people aged between 10 and 14 years, in order to achieve a more uniform treatment of several children in the same case complex and the lack of consultation of opinions on young people between 15 and 17 years of personal circumstances and different circumstances concerning the preparation of the young professional survey. Finally, Radicals would like to focus on the fact that, in relation to the rules on juvenile delinquency, the amendment will provide a more flexible framework and thus the possibility of an individual professional judgement in relation to the target group definition, the organisation of board meetings and the municipalities' supervisory obligations taken by the municipalities under the Service Act. We look forward to the legislative process, which we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026150648	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026150656	Thank you. The draft law, as other rapporteurs have already mentioned, contains a number of different initiatives and there is no room to comment on them all. The Enhedslisten is in favour of the proposals, but we have some questions that we would have liked to have clarified in relation to the proposal here, to include the costs of certain health services in the tariffs on offers under the Services Act. We therefore agree with the government that, based on the existing rules, it would be reasonable for health care costs close to the housing services to be covered by the citizen's original municipality of residence, when the citizen is searched for a settlement offer located in another municipality, even though, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has said, we can share the concern that Danske Handicap organisations have that the proposal may provide an additional financial incentive to prioritize a municipality's own offers rather than offers in other municipalities, which would otherwise be better suited to the needs of the citizen. And that is why I would also like to say that we believe that there is a fundamental need for a completely different type of financing model from the one we are repairing with the proposal here. I would also like to say that we may be a little surprised that the government believes that the cost of health care today can be a barrier to a municipality creating specialised offers if they cannot use all the places for their own citizens. This is not, in fact, because we disagree with the fact that this may be the case, but we do not think that this is entirely in keeping with the approach that the government has taken to the entire compensation scheme, where the financial incentives of municipalities when visiting accommodation offers, as we have seen, have not been given the very great importance of the government. It is true that the compensatory reform did not in itself mean a sharp increase in the financial losses of the municipalities by searching for a settlement offer in another municipality, but looking at the overall situation, as has also been highlighted in the report that has been made, means such a visitation across a municipal border that there may be an additional cost of a quarter of a million kroner or more by way of the compensation system alone, and in addition, there may be differences in rates. I must hurry to say that this cannot in itself be an argument for not making the change that the government is suggesting here. I am just stumping over the fact that it is not entirely related, and I would therefore have liked to have clarified how much additional expenditure on health care the government is really assessing will be involved. This is not quite clear from the proposal. Another point that I would also like to mention, and the radical rapporteur mentioned this in his speech, is that we must immediately negotiate a reform of the disability sector. After all, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly has not really lifted the veil on the government's thinking, and in the Enhedslisten, in respect of the ongoing evaluation, we have also not determined on a particular solution, but I can say so much today that we are absolutely certain that the way in which the area is financed needs to be changed, and so we can be a little surprised that with this proposal the government is going in and repairing an existing financing model immediately before negotiating what a new financing model should look like. So I would very much like to hear the Minister's reflections on how the government sees the link between the bill here and a future reform of the area, and just for the sake of order I have tried on other occasions to take an oath to the Minister in relation to the forthcoming negotiations on reform of the area. I would very much like to ask the Minister to confirm here too that any adoption of this proposal, which we agree in substance will not stand in the way of us discussing in the forthcoming negotiations on the future of the disability area a more fundamental change in the financing model, because we believe that this is what is needed, and we will also follow up that issue in the course of the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026151149	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see a rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party present, but, on the other hand, I see the New Citizens' rapporteur moving up against the platform. Welcome to Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026151214	I agree with both the puzzle and the critical questions that have come from both the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten. It is this one wondering about the distortion of the financial incentives in the compensation system, which I can fortunately hear that more people have not forgotten because it is not solved. It is, in fact, a concern which is also part of some of the consultation responses to this bill. from Danske Handicap organisations, which are questioning the fact that the way to turn this together makes it actually impossible to send citizens to other municipalities simply because of financial incentives. I simply have to mention the bias which lies in the compensation system and which I think should be changed. I have already asked a number of questions about this draft law, and I will certainly ask more in committee, but we cannot say at this stage whether we are going to support it, because we need answers to those questions in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026151336	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026151350	The Liberal Alliance supports the bill. We see it mostly as administrative snuff, which one can consider why should be dealt with in this Chamber at all. Isn't that something the executive can take care of? It seems that's how the law works. There needs to be a change of law, and we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026151412	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. And then I understand that the rapporteur of the Left has asked the rapporteur on the law of the Left to be acting social rapporteur on this matter. So this is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026151440	Thank you. This bill, as several others have indicated, is a mixed country trade with many different initiatives, and I will try briefly to explain what this is about and what the position of the Left is about. I can already reveal that the Left will support the proposal. The first is that the Minister must be able to lay down detailed rules on how social benefits are to be reimbursed when a municipality refers a citizen to benefits and offers located in another municipality. I guess it's just a healthy principle that we get a handle on who actually takes the bill in this situation. The second part of the proposal is somewhat on the same ball street and deals with the technical amendments to the rules on inter-municipal reimbursement in the law on legal certainty. Here, too, we'll find out who's gonna cover the bill. The third element of the bill is a clarification of the terms of reference of the Advisory Practice Committee of the Ankestyrelsen. It is a little technical and a very natural thing, which is why I do not need to spend Parliament's time on. The fourth part of the proposal concerns clarification of the selection process for members of municipal disability councils. Nor can you mind being made clear. The fifth part applies to clarification in determining the remuneration of the members of the municipal disability councils. It is also a good and healthy principle that you know what it translates into when you spend the time on the task here. The sixth is the amendment of the rate regulation in the Services Act. Finally, seventhly, there is the correction of some errors and inappropriate social legislation in relation to the legislation we adopted on juvenile delinquency last year or last year. So the bill is slightly technical, and I have to free the Danish Parliament to try to go further with regard to the proposal here. It contains many good elements that the Left can see itself in. It is sensible to clarify the rules that I outlined just now, and that will be one of them. helping citizens to assess where they find the best offer in the specialised area that meets their specific challenges. And the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026151658	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments and I do not see any more parties wanting rapporteurs on the platform. I can therefore give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026151710	Thank you. I would like to sign for the receipt of the bill and the good one, but also a little short. That is how it is sometimes the debate we have had in this Chamber today. Well, it could be tempting to do what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen said, and just fix it for yourself, but there's something about it with the three-part power, and who legislates, and who exercises, which we need to get this under control. That is why we have been through a first reading here. And I can also say right away to you that, of course, I am very willing to answer the various questions which it is perfectly understandable that there may be for a legislative proposal which is as relatively technical as what we are dealing with here today. So let me just make it very clear now to all the rapporteurs who have been on the platform. It can of course be seen as a necessary evil that we should spend our time on a legislative proposal which is both so technical and so relatively small on its scale, when there are rapporteurs on the platform and take the opportunity to talk about the whole huge evaluation of the entire specialized social area we are working on. And measured up against that, of course, these are some minor adjustments. Nevertheless, sometimes it is also what may seem to be technology that can make a difference in everyday life. It means something on the offer that the draft law here removes the requirement that a settlement offer, such as the one on the market, should be made. If you are a resident of a Member State, you are entitled to claim benefits under the legislation of the Member State in which you reside, and you are entitled to claim benefits under the legislation of the Member State in which you reside. It is a small thing on paper, but something that, when you add it together with the other demands that are out there, can make everyday life more difficult and eliminate the time for citizens. It means something to the caseworker that she does not read the provision on inter-municipal reimbursement and believes that the law is in one way, and then reads 3-4 paragraphs further down and finds that exactly the opposite is the case. There it is we who have not done our work well enough originally, and I am glad to hear that we will then also bet on correcting that. It is important for the municipalities that they are now given the same access as under the rules of the Services Act for reimbursement under the central reimbursement scheme for the costs of the measures decided by the Youth Crime Board that the municipalities should take action against young people. So we are cleaning up, we are simplifying, we are making things easier out in reality, and that is why this bill, of course, has a value when it is put forward, and I am also pleased to hear the broad support and, as I said, also more than ready to respond to some of the more technical questions that the rapporteurs have expressed in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026151945	Thank you, Minister. There is already a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026151951	Thank you. I would like to hear the Minister's response to the concerns of Danish Handicap organisations. After all, they write in the consultation answer: •DH is concerned that it will at the same time contribute to the movement we are already seeing today, where municipalities have incentives to offer services and offers in their own municipality rather than to buy specialised services located in other municipalities or regions. We already see in DH with concern that the grant and compensation reform of 2021 contributes to this movement. I would therefore like to hear the Minister's response to DH's concerns, because that is something we have also noticed precisely in relation to specialized offers. We can see, of course, that we often use our own offers rather than, in other words, make the best offer in relation to the problem we now have. So the Minister can answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152052	It is a well-known concern, and there are also several of you who have been around that it has been something that has been discussed on a larger scale in the discussion on the compensatory reform. And there is, as I believe the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned, a report which highlights it. So it has to be said that the concern that the changes we are making here should lead to tariff increases to some particular extent, and thus could push some incentives, is very calm to me. I can, of course, elaborate on this in committee too, but there will be no more wounds to be treated, or more medicines to be dealt with, in relation to this concern that this was becoming an expense and should therefore push something special here. But let us finally get it out of the committee's way if the questioner has any further questions about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152143	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152145	Okay, so if I understand the Minister's reply correctly, the Minister does not share the concern of Danish Handicap organisations. Another thing I would like to ask is that this is also a number of previous agreements that form part of this bill, so I just want to hear: is there anything dealt with in this bill? Well, there's the juvenile delinquency board, and there's something about equalisation, so I'd like to get an overview of that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152221	There is, of course, nothing about equalisation, but it is true that part of the legislative proposal, like correcting some shortcomings in relation to the implementation of the agreement on the Youth Crime Board, which was concluded. Nothing is being changed in relation to that agreement, but the legislation is being brought into line with that agreement. This has been spent some time trying to figure out how best to do it, and it is the bill that we have now that translates it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152250	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152254	I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that I think it is a little odd that the matter is coming up now. If the government now considers that it is right for us to get these things right, it may seem a little pointy, but the legal notes point to the fact that errors in the legislation are being corrected back from 2003 and 2010, and it is of course also a long time to wait for any errors to be corrected. But now that we are about to negotiate a new financing model in this area, why is it so important for the government that we go in and fix this separately right now? It's a little unclear to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152337	Thank you. It is true that there was a very specific question from Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, as the rapporteur is right in asking me in other contexts too. That is why I do not think the rapporteur is surprised at the answer, namely that with the adoption and examination of this draft law there has in any way been a prior or pre-conclusion or any prior commitment to the discussion we are going to have on the evaluation of the specialized social area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152403	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152405	I appreciate that, and it also makes Enhedslisten positive in making the change.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152413	Well, that's what I'm gonna sign back for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152416	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Elders' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152431	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Orla Sea. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152452	Thank you for that, President. The draft law here can be described as very technical in nature, because it is a follow-up to the European Union's legal acts on economic relations with third countries. This is mainly about the control of the sale of digital technologies to countries that do not have real intentions or are under an arms embargo. Specifically, this bill seeks to lift the ban on technical assistance and replace it with a penalty for new controls on so-called cyber surveillance products. This must be done in order to update the legislation and adapt it to the new EU regulation in this area. However, we must also do so because we have a strong interest in combating terrorism and the use of weapons for warring and mass destruction and other military activities that violate human rights, and this is done when selling products and technologies that can be used for such activities to third countries that are under an arms embargo. Danish export companies are crucial to the coherence of our economy and, of course, it must be promoted as much as possible, but not at absolutely any cost, and this is one area where it has to be said that other principles are more important. We in the Social Democratic Party look at actions from the EU as the so-called dual-use regulation as welcome. So the thing about that stuff can be used for both bad and good. So the regulation has been revised for clearer rules and more thorough controls on the dual use of these products, including digital cyber surveillance products. We think that the proposal for a directive is going to be well in line with the launch of the directive and, of course, we agree with the proposal that it should be a criminal offence to violate the new control of these products. We see here a well-balanced legislative action aimed at making legislation up to date and fair and, hopefully, the world a better place than if we had not adopted it. Social democracy supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152720	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152728	Thank you for that, President. In addition to what was said in the case, the Left has no further comments. We therefore also envisage a completely unproblematic committee procedure, so we can already make it clear that, as part of the committee's work, something completely unforeseen must arise if we do not vote in favour of the Minister's draft law L 10.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152752	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152759	Thank you for that, President. I'm going on behalf of sir. Hans Kristian Skibby is giving this speech. The bill provides for the lifting of the ban on technical assistance and the introduction of criminal sanctions for new and increased control of cyber surveillance products. The aim of the draft law is to bring the law into line with the adoption by the European Parliament and the Council on the export control of dual-use items, the dual-use Regulation. The new dual-use Regulation entered into force on 9 September 2021 and became applicable in this context, among others. established a new control mechanism for cyber-monitoring products that may be used for human rights violations, as well as a requirement for authorisation for the provision of technical assistance in cases where there is a risk of abuse in connection with weapons of mass destruction and/or military use in countries subject to international arms embargo. In DF, we consider it to be timely care when, with this legislative alignment, we achieve better opportunities to protect against abuse through the use of surveillance products and can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152921	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I see no rapporteur from the SF or from the Radical Left, but I see the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who may have greetings from other parties. Welcome to Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026152938	Thank you. I can inform you that I am not the rapporteur on this matter, but I am required to speak on behalf of Mr Seligman. Rune Lund. And I would say that the Enhedslisten supports the proposed strengthening of dual-use controls by extending it to include cyber surveillance. However, the Enhedslisten would like legislation to clarify who is primarily responsible for exercising the due diligence required when it comes to dual-use products which are not included in the Danish Business Authority's control list. The new catch all clause indicates both the control authority and the undertakings as being responsible. But is the risk not that in practice the responsibility falls to the companies alone when it comes down to it, or does the government envisage that the Danish Business Authority should actively acquire knowledge about the risk of abuse of the new cyber-monitoring regulations? Ideally, the Enhedslisten wants to resolve this ambiguity about the hierarchy of responsibilities by imposing a clear ban on exporting cyber-monitoring equipment to dictatorship states and states that violate human rights. But we are positive about the proposal and must also welcome the Radicals and say that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153056	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The position of the Radical Left is noted. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153106	Thank you for the floor. It is clear that with the adoption by Parliament and the Council of the recasting of the regulation on the export control of dual use, that is to say, of dual-use products, where there is a risk that they will be used for military purposes, we must, here too, so-called coherent legislation. There are two amendments: firstly, the lifting of the current ban on technical assistance, simply because a provision on technical assistance is now being introduced into the new dual use regulation and, secondly, the addition of penalties for breaches of the new provision of the regulation on the control of exports of cyber-monitoring products which could be used to violate human rights. Conservatives have no comments and vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153146	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153153	I shall be brief: new citizens can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153156	The President did not even have time to sit down, but he can say thank you to the new citizens. I see that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is on the way. Welcome to sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153205	The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153210	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then I do not see any more rapporteurs from the parties present, but on the other hand I see the Minister for Industry. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153220	Thank you very much for that and thank you for the agile but also positive treatment of the bill. I think that I will just briefly present the background to the draft law before going over the key points contained in the proposal. It is so that after approx. Five years of negotiations have now finally succeeded in reaching agreement on updating the rules in this very important area within the EU's export control rules of what is called dual use products, which are therefore products that can be used both civilly and militarily. Technology has moved a lot since we last updated the regulation. It was back in 2009, and anyone who tries to think back can remember what it was for a phone you had in your pocket back in 2009, and then see what your phone looks like today and what else it can do. A lot has happened, a lot has happened, and so is when it comes to cyber surveillance products. This is a rapid technological development, which is why we now have an updated regulation and are introducing an updated set of rules, among others. with increased control of the cyber-monitoring products such as: can be abused to violate human rights. Although the regulation has direct effect, there is a need for us to impact parts of the Danish rules on export control of dual-use products. What we are proposing is that one can be punished for violating the new control of cyber-monitoring products in the Authorization Act. In concrete terms, this means that Danish exporters of cyber surveillance products who violate the rules in this area can be fined or imprisoned for up to 2 years and can therefore be sentenced to up to 8 years in prison under very tighter circumstances. The criminal framework that is being proposed follows from the rules that already exist in this area today, and that is why we in the government think it appropriate that we should use the same penalty framework, which is therefore already in force. In addition, the previous dual-use regulation did not provide for any joint control of technical assistance, and therefore the control was instead laid down in Danish law, but the revised EU regulation now introduces a requirement for authorisation for technical assistance, which is why we propose that the current Danish ban in the Authorization Act be lifted, because we ensure that there is a much greater degree of clarity for Danish exporters, and we ensure that exporters know what rules they have to comply with. Finally, I would just like to stress that it is of course very important for us to ensure that we in Denmark do not continue to contribute to anti-freedom and illegal activities, for example. the development of weapons of mass destruction, war crimes, violations of human rights and similar things. So the new regulation will improve control over the non-compliance with dual-use rules, and with the proposed penal framework we will be able to support that very fact. In those words, I look forward to the examination of the bill and would suggest that the very relevant issue raised by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur on behalf of Mr. Rune Lund, is something we can answer in writing. Basically, it is a matter of knowing as a company what kind of products you have on the shelves, and therefore also of being responsible for not being used incorrectly, and there is then the possibility that in case of doubt you can get help from the Danish Business Authority. But it is a relevant question that is raised as to whether there is a risk of something falling between two chairs here. We do not believe that there is, but it would be useful to have a written answer to it, so we have it in the legislative process, so I have to give you an undertaking to do so. I think it has to be it from my side. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153616	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no brief comments to the Minister for Industry. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that this bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153630	The debate is open and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Orla Sea. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153652	Thank you for that, President. As the President read out, this is the amendment to the law on the administration of grants from the European Regional Fund and the European Social Fund and the law on business promotion. The EU has approved its budget for the period 2021-2027, and it is of course the case that Denmark is allocated funds from the European Regional Fund, the Social Fund Plus and the new Fund, the Fund for Justice and Home Affairs. The European regulatory framework for the Funds has been updated and the national legal framework establishing the administrative basis for the operation of the Funds in Denmark must therefore also be updated. Regardless of Denmark's luxuriousness after the overall accounts for the use of the three funds, the challenges are different between the parts of the country. It is therefore sensible to allow the regional councils, after consultation with the regional labour market councils, to suspend the use of Social Fund funds for the Minister of Industry with regard to the resources allocated by the Social Fund Plus for education and to allow the municipality of Bornholm to have the same right of adjustment as a regional council. The draft law provides for the general extension of the scope of the law to include the Fund for Fair Conversion, including the establishment of a recommendation committee recommending funds from the Fund to the Minister for Economic Affairs. We are of course confident that the Minister for Industry is the highest authority responsible for the administration of the Regional Fund and the Social Fund Plus, and have no doubts that the Minister for Industry will also be the supreme authority responsible for the administration of the Fund for Justice and Justice, which is otherwise administered according to the same principles as the Regional Fund and the Social Fund Plus. We look to the EU regulations to allocate 3%. of the total allocation to the Social Fund Plus for concrete objectives to support the Fund's specific objectives of promoting social inclusion and addressing material deprivation for disadvantaged citizens. The draft law provides for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly to make recommendations to the Minister for Industry on the use of funds allocated by the Social Fund Plus to remedy material deprivation. Moreover, bearing in mind the draft law and the comments I have now made on the draft law, we in the Social Democratic Party are fully committed to following the bill, and we are, of course, also prepared to take an active part in the committee's work that will be carried out. So we welcome the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026153956	Thank you to the rapporteur. It seems that the rapporteur will just give a small addition in view of the fact that there are not so many rapporteurs in the Chamber. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154013	Thank you to the President-in-Office for understanding. I have promised to greet the Radical Left and say that they also support the bill. Then I won't be asking Mrs. Jette Gottlieb to be a messenger this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154022	Thank you very much. I have noted the Radical Left's position on the draft law and can welcome the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154032	Thanks for that, and then we got our regards. This is close to Giro 413. Thank you for the floor. The main aim of the draft law is to establish the framework for a common administrative basis for grants to Denmark from the Regional Fund, including Interreg, and from the Social Fund Plus and the Fund for Fair Conversion. It is, of course, the case that the Regional Fund and the Social Fund are funds we know. They are known in the EU system, they are also known here in Denmark. And by the amendment of the Business Promotion Act in 2018, we created the Danish Business Promotion Board for among other things. to carry out the administrative work relating to the Funds. The implementation of the funds takes place on the basis of a developed strategy for decentralized business promotion across the country. That work is going on with this bill, and we support it in the Left. The Fair Conversion Fund, on the other hand, is a new fund within the European Union. The fund has been launched as part of the European Green Pact, which has the advantage of making Europe the first climate-neutral continent in 2050, and the funds must be translated into parts of the country where there is a particular expectation of job losses in production, where the use of fossil fuels is high and where the conversion of production processes is necessary. And an obvious example of who is eligible is the production of cement in North Jutland, which was also mentioned as an example in setting up the fund. The draft law here provides for the establishment of an independent recommendation committee for the examination of applications to the Fair Conversion Fund. And, overall, I would say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154223	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154232	Thank you. Denmark is allocated funds from the European Regional Fund, the Social Fund Plus and the new Fund for Justice and Home Affairs. The Minister for Economic Affairs has informed us of this in connection with the draft law which we first dealt with in the Danish Parliament. Thank you so much. However, is it not really our own money that we are giving to the European Union in order to stand here in the Chamber and thank you for the very same means? It is, of course, a good thing that the legal basis for the funds should be updated and things must be sorted out, so that subsidies from the European Regional Fund and the European Social Fund and business promotion funds are properly paid out. The Regional Councils now have the power, after consultation of the Regional Labour Councils, to make recommendations to the Minister for Industry on the use of the Social Fund funds Plus to strengthen the work of the regions in the field of education and to allow the municipality of Bornholm to have the same right of recommendation as a regional council. DF is in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154338	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The order is that it should actually be the Socialist People's Party now, but I can see that they are not present. On the other hand, Mrs Jette Gottlieb, the acting rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, is on the platform. Maybe there's a greeting too. Here you go, Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154353	No, I am only allowed to speak on behalf of Rune Lund, who is the rapporteur on this matter. On his behalf, I would like to say that the Enhedslisten can well support the administrative adaptation proposed by the draft law with the new Fund for Fair Conversion incorporated into Danish legislation in the same way as with the EU Social Fund and the EU Regional Fund. In line with the universities, however, we regret that the co-financing rate of between 40% and 60%. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the excellent work he has done. research institutes. This is regulated through the European Union, so it is something that needs to be changed in the European Union. However, this really means that universities will not be able to use the EU funds in question because they will not seek them, as far too much cofinancing comes with them. Despite this, Enhedslisten is positive about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154448	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. For the sake of good order, I note that the SF rapporteur is not present in the Chamber and that we do not know the recommendation for the bill. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. Welcome to Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154507	Thank you, and thank you for the floor. When the EU approves the new budget and funds are to be distributed from the European Regional Fund, the Social Fund plus, as well as the new Fund for Fair Conversion, the regulatory framework must, of course, be updated. It is about ensuring the management basis for the operation of the funds in Denmark. In the same vein, I also noticed that it opens up the possibility of the municipality of Bornholm being given the same right of recommendation as a regional council. That makes perfect sense. And when, at the same time, I have listened to the consultation responses to ensure as much debureaucratisation as possible, Conservatives have no more wishes. We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154544	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens. Welcome to sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154550	This is the story of the European Union at its worst. You force Denmark, and it is actually a parliament, which unfortunately does so, to give money to the European Union, and then you get the money, some of them, back again, of course with a large number of demands on how to use it. It is an impeachment and it is a clientage that is absolutely terrible, and what goes with it is more EU control, it is more state control and it is more power for politicians and less freedom for citizens. In short, it is a miserable way of forcing citizens to return their tax dollars. That money should never have been down in the European Union. Now we've got some of them back, of course with a lot of demands on how to use them. This is so little about getting something administrative done so that the various bodies can set something for it, but I have a whole series of questions to which I would like answers before we even think this could be a good idea in New Citizens. I would also like to challenge what this money is really going to be spent on. Now it says that some of it should be used for people who are not feeling so well, and that there should be social justice, as they call it here, a socially fair conversion, social funds plus and regional funds, yes, as if we did not have enough funds, one more is invented. And then it says how this money is going to be spent, but in our optics is something that can really benefit those who have the least, to lower taxes, for example. on some of the goods that people who do not have so much income actually use a part of. It was something that really wanted to make a difference. We could also lighten the tax for those at the bottom in particular. That would help them too. So I would like to challenge whether this money should be used for something where it should always be so that politicians have to decide through some funds and everything else, what they need to spend on, because then it's just more governance in here from Christiansborg by, and we're not big fans of that in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154744	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then I do not see any more rapporteurs present in the Chamber who wish to take part in this debate, and so I can give the floor to the Minister for Industry. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026154753	Thank you so much. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments and for their very positive reception of this draft law. It is quite simply a legislative proposal that has to lay down the framework for obtaining a common administrative basis for the grants that can be granted from the EU funds for the new budgetary period, which, after all, runs here between 2021 and 2027. We in the government want a strong and efficient management of the grants, and that is why the draft law, in addition to the new EU regulations for the funds, is also intended to be the prerequisite for the Danish administration of the funds. The funds from the Funds include: helping to set the direction for the entire decentralised SME effort over the next seven years and helping to create growth and create jobs throughout our country. As in previous years, Denmark receives approx. 4 billion kr. from the Social Fund Plus and the Regional Fund as well as from Interreg. In addition, Denmark receives approx. 660 million kr. from a new EU fund, i.e. the Fund for Fair Conversion. And when a new fund comes into the picture, there is also a need to extend the scope of the current Danish law, so that the law also covers the new fund, i.e. the Fund for Fair Conversion. The new fund was set up in the context of the European Green Pact, which will make Europe the first climate-neutral continent in 2050, and it must do so by addressing social, employment, economic and environmental challenges that may be in the transition to a climate-neutral society in selected parts of the country. With the bill we are then considering in the Danish Parliament today, we propose that it be the Minister of Industry who will be the supreme responsible authority for the administration of the Fund for Fair Conversion, and the Fund must be managed according to the same principles as we know from the Regional Fund and from the Social Fund Plus. We also propose that we set up a special recommendation committee to suspend projects using funds from the Fair Conversion Fund. And with the proposal, we are also extending the scope of the legislative proposal to include funds implemented in accordance with the rules on shared management between the European Commission and the Member States, such as: Brexit adjustment reserve. So this law thus forms the basis for the entire Danish administration of the EU funds in the coming budget period, and at the same time the law lays great emphasis on continuing the setup that we know today from the implementation of the Structural Funds. With the bill, we suggest that the Danish Business Promotion Board will continue to have the right of adjustment in relation to how most of the funds from the Regional Fund and the Social Fund Plus are used. And with the bill, the Regional Councils and the Municipality of Bornholm will be given new powers to suspend the application of approx. 20% of the Social Fund Plus funds for education and training. As has already been mentioned, this should be done after consultation with the regional labour market councils. This is done within the legal framework of the regions in sectoral legislation, which has been agreed with the regions in the economic agreement prior to the summer holidays. In addition to all of this, we want to promote social inclusion of the most deprived, and that is why the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly, with the bill here, is given the authority to suspend the use of Social Fund Plus funds, and this is done in addition to a new EU requirement for the period 2021-2027, which is intended to remedy material deprivation among the most deprived. So with those words I have given a brief review of the bill here, and I look forward to a good and constructive discussion of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026155202	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026155209	Yes, and a good and constructive dialogue must be achieved. I would like to hear: would it be possible, in the Minister's view, for those who wish to suspend some of the funds I am not saying that they should all be able to apply for them to be granted to either tax relief or tax relief, or could the Minister take the initiative on his own to use some of these funds for tax or tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20211026155231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026155234	No, that is to say, the means that have to be put into this context, and that is what the law is about creating the administrative basis for tax relief, and that is simply according to the regulation requirement. We then have the opportunity to reduce taxes or taxes on our companies in Denmark in various other ways. After all, the government has proposed to provide support to companies that want to research and invest in development, so that a permanent tax concession is granted on the fou allowance. So this money can be very positive in relation to those parts of Denmark and Europe, such as Denmark and Europe. We need help to get through the green transition, but that is not something that can relate to tax incentives.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026155322	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026155323	No, but hopefully we agree that tax relief and tax relief also create jobs, otherwise we will have at least some basic economic disagreements. If these funds cannot be used directly for tax incentives, then they could not be used for some purposes, for example. research and training, and then use the funds that would otherwise have been used for those purposes for tax relief and tax relief? Then you do not directly use the funds provided for in this regulation, you just spend some other money, and then you actually have the same money, which means that money is actually being released for tax relief and tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026155359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026155401	It's gonna be a little circular. But let us assume that we agree that there is a place in the Kingdom where we want a special effort to create growth and new jobs among SMEs. We then find out that with these funds in hand we are getting an effort that solves it. It's not tax relief, but it's a specially dedicated effort using these funds. One would then, in theory, be able to free up other funds that would otherwise have been spent and then spend them on tax cuts, but that would then require agreement on it. So the displacement is theoretically possible, and I hope that answers the question, but if that is really what would happen, then it must be based on a political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026155446	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211026155500	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 27 October 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00.
