ParlaMint-DK_20210309130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: I will start by saying that there are many of them, and therefore I will not read the titles, but just tell who is the proposer. You can count on it if you want to. I'll be up to about 40. Merete Scheelsbeck (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 215 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of tax on labour and the Internet for employers), motion for a resolution No. B 216 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the reduction of corporation tax) and motion for a resolution No. B 217 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on raising the top tax limit and increasing the employment allowance). Jane Heitmann (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 218 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the launching of a pilot project with older counsellors for older citizens). Eva Kjer Hansen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B219 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of a single digital solution for the organizational applications of associations). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 220 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on sustainable construction and renovations in the municipalities and regions). Halime Oguz (SF) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 221 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of expensive private certification bureaucracy for small construction works). Marcus Knuth (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 222 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the recognition of several unrecognized religions), motion for a resolution No. B 223 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the offsetting of income from work in the retirement age), motion for a resolution No. B 261 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to examine the legal basis for closing mosques and other religious associations which call for violence, behave extremistly or disrupt public order) and motion for a resolution No. Β 265 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better guidance for foreigners on the possibility of repatriation aid). Birgitte Bergman (KF) and Mette Hjermind Dencker (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 224 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the dimension of admission to theology courses). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 225 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the temporary withdrawal of the right to work in the social field by reason of suspicion of serious negligence, etc.). Susan Kronborg (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 226 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the citizenship of young people born and raised in Denmark). Torsten Gejl (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 227 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of tax on meat from ruminants, increased tax on petrol and diesel and the introduction of excise duty on air travel), motion for a resolution No. B 263 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the decision of principle on the level of CO2 - Motion for a resolution No. B 268 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the adjustment of land laws to reduce the influence of foreign capital funds). Pernille Skipper (EL) and Peder Hvelplund (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 228 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a prevention plan for the consumption of alcohol by young people). Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 229 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the protection and exit plans of vulnerable citizens who are being pressured into crime against gangs). Susanne Zimmer (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 230 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the protection and conservation of old trees in public areas). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 231 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on criminalising the use of images and identity of others without consent), motion for a resolution No. Β 246 (Proposal for a resolution on the detention of gang members), motion for a resolution No. B264 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on stronger efforts to reduce paedophilia) and motion for a resolution No. B 274 (Proposal for a decision of Parliament that the inmate's crime during placement in the institutions of the criminal service should always trigger a new sentence to be served directly on the sentence that the inmate is already serving or is to serve). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 232 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a voluntary labelling scheme for advertising where digital retouching has not been used or where no body changes have been made to the persons depicted), motion for a resolution No. B 236 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of the right to compensation for victims of violence), motion for a resolution No. Β 249 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a Commission on the proportionality of criminal offences and penalties in the event of an attachment and proceedings), motion for a resolution No. Β 267 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the improvement of legal certainty for vulnerable citizens who enter into financial commitments under false conditions), motion for a resolution No. Β 270 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an experimental scheme for open villages), motion for a resolution No. Β 272 (Proposal for a resolution on the criminalisation of identity theft and abuse of identity) and motion for a resolution No. B 273 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the rules on the costs of criminal proceedings). Nas Khade (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 233 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution introducing an autonomous provision on domination in criminal law), motion for a resolution No. Β 235 (Proposal for a resolution on the withdrawal of gang criminals from the right to compensation for gang crimes), motion for a resolution No. Β 248 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the punishment of threats to freedom of expression) and motion for a resolution No. B 276 (Proposal for a parliamentary decision to place Hezbollah on the EU terrorist list). Birgitte Bergman (KF), etc.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 234 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the preparation and presentation of a plan for the reopening of the Danish tourism and experience industry). Karsten Hønge (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 237 (Proposal for a Parliament decision to send public digital mail only to citizens on weekdays). Kristian Hegaard (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 238 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the incorporation of the UN Convention on Disability into Danish law). Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 239 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on demand for energy renovation rates in municipal and regional buildings). Birgitte Bergman (KF), Jacob Jensen (V) and René Christensen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 240 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the regulation on bathing and boatbridges). Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 241 (Proposal for a resolution on a law of prosperity) and motion for a resolution No. B 251 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of aid to Palestinian self-government). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 242 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the convening of negotiations on birthrights) and motion for a resolution No. Β 247 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on access to abortion in Denmark for Polish women). Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 243 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the elimination of the pay gap for women's dominated professions in the public sector). Mai Mercado (KF), Ellen Trane Nørby (V), Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and Henrik Dahl (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 244 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to ensure that free schools, private schools and private youth education are made available by the municipalities on equal terms with primary and public youth education). Marcus Knuth (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 245 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution not to allow applicants with a conditional or unconditional prison sentence to be admitted to the next draft law on the right of residence) and motion for a resolution No. B 253 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the simplification of Articles 22 to 24 of the Aliens Act on expulsion). Mona Juul (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 250 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the rules on the daily subsistence allowance for entrepreneurs and selfemployed persons). Hans Andersen (V) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 252 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the re-establishment of the residence requirement for entitlement to cash benefits). Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 254 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better local representation on the boards of regional theatres, venues, etc.). Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 255 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a temporary deduction for the purchase of homework aid). Per Larsen (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 256 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution imposing a ban on new carcinogenic tobacco products). Louise Schack Elholm (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 257 (Proposal for a parliamentary decision to increase the maximum employment allowance by DKr 1000) President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). B 258 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the roll-back of the treble of the tax on generational change in family-owned businesses). Kim Valentin (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 259 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the permanent increase in corporate income tax deductions of 130%) In the case of investment in research and development,1and in the case of motion for a resolution No. B 260 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the increase in the ceiling on the share savings account and the investor allowance). Carl Valentin (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 262 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a 'yes' advertising scheme). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 266 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on infringement proceedings before the European Court of Justice against imports of free zones by Poland). Mette Thiesen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 269 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the amendment of the principles of discretion in civil matters). Stén Knuth (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 271 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to change the work on the qualification assessment of pupils in the oldest classes of primary school and to introduce provision for educational guidance for all 8th and 9th grade pupils). Rosa Lund (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 275 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution that residence permits do not automatically lapse for minors who have been sent on a return journey) and motion for a resolution No. B No 277 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the fact that residence permits do not automatically lapse as a result of a stay abroad). Pernille Vermund (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 278 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on punishment, so that social fraud always leads to expulsion for foreigners). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and Henrik Dahl (LA): Enquiry no. F 49 (Does the Minister agree that in certain humanist and social sciences there are problems of excessive activism at the expense of scientific virtues, and does the Minister agree that such a trend calls for action, as has been the case by the French Government, and the study of the scale of the problem it has initiated?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. No. B 228 is referred directly to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309130458	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. Before I start the vote, I would ask you to ensure that you have the right name in front of your voting panel when you need to use it. If that is the case, we can proceed with the vote. It is the case that there are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 82 by Pernille Skipper (EL), Rasmus Horn Langhoff (S), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Stinus Lindgreen (RV), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 82 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 81 by Liselott Blixt (DF), Martin Geertsen (V), Per Larsen (KF) and Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309130620	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 80 of Jens Joel (S), Jacob Mark (SF), Marianne Jelved (RV) and Jakob Sølvhøj Mound (EL). A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 80 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 79 by Mai Mercado (KF), Ellen Trane Nørby (V), Alex Ahrendtsen (DF), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309130739	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 77 by Rasmus Stoklund (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Nase Khader (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 61 (S, V, KF and LA), against 32 (DF, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 2 (NB). Proposal for adoption No V 77 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 76 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Inger Støjberg (UFG) and proposals for adoption no. V 78 by Karsten Hønge (SF), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Rosa Lund (EL) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309130851	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309130919	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309130951	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309130956	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 67 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 28 (V, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131029	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131048	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 79 (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 9 (EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 7 (RV). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131116	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131140	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-5 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131150	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131158	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote shall be closed. In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB and LA) voted against, 0 abstentions 2 (Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131235	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131239	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 78 (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB and LA), against 16 (RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131316	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131326	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Finance. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131339	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131342	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131420	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131426	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 17 (DF, EL and NB), against 78 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131516	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131520	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 24 votes (SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 71 votes (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131557	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131604	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 10 (DF and NB), against 84 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131644	The debate is first of all about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131655	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (NB), joined by a minority (DF), which was rejected. It has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131707	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131717	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 52 (S, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131756	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131759	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 44 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 51 (S, SF, RV and EL), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131833	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131840	Thank you. New information has been provided, and some questions have also been asked about it, and we would like to have an opportunity to discuss this in committee. It has also been discussed with a broad circle of parties. So, on this basis, I would ask that the debate be stopped in this Chamber and that the matter be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131902	Thank you. There's now Mr. Knox. Mr Bonnesen, on behalf of the Left, proposed that the debate on the L 150 be suspended and that the proposal be referred back to committee. Does anyone wish to comment on that? There isn't. So, if we do not have a vote here, I shall consider, in the light of the opinions which have fallen, the proposal that the matter be stopped and that the proposal be referred back to committee as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131915	So, if we do not have a vote here, I shall consider, in the light of the opinions which have fallen, the proposal that the matter be stopped and that the proposal be referred back to committee as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309131942	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132011	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132017	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132046	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132100	Thank you for that, President. This bill should actually have been fairly simple, and it was at first reading as well. Is it not the case that the President could create a little quiet down there in the back rows?
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132120	I'd like that. There will be quiet in the back rows from the platform. It bothers when you're trying to make a speech. That is how attention is again focused on the rapporteur's speech. Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132133	Yes, there is a reason why the Socialists are in the rear row. This proposal should have been simple and there was also when the Minister for Employment put it forward, because it was an extension of aid packages with cash benefits and sickness benefits for those who, because of corona, could not get into employment but were sent home and thus could not start a job. Because of the fact that the restrictions persist because the government has not just been ready to open up, these rules are being extended. The Danish People's Party thus seemed to be okay. at first reading, because we voted in favour of extending those rules in the past. However, but: then it happens, one day before we have to submit a report or something like that, that there are some amendments coming from the Minister for Employment. These are not amendments to what we have debated at first reading. If the amendments had been so, it would have been okay, but no, these are new paragraphs that will be inserted into the draft law and new paragraphs which we have not had the opportunity to discuss at first reading, as we would otherwise do if they were there. For it is not an amendment to legislation in an existing draft law; it is simply a new paragraph which the Minister for Employment puts into draft law No. L 165. So where do we stand? But can we then be allowed to divide it so that it is dealt with in two proposals? No, it cannot be done because it is an amendment. Then you can't share the bill. We have done so in the past if there was something that would not be supported, for example. Here's the 225-hour rule. Then you could have separated it into an A- and B-suggestion. However, as these are amendments, the answer is: no, you cannot, because it has not been separately debated at first reading, and then you cannot share the bill when it has not been included from the beginning. So the result is that we will then have to decide what we do in this matter. It is simply incredible about the talk that is in the ranks of ministers here now, when you are actually talking to a minister who should also be able to hear it. What lies in it is that the Minister then comes with a new paragraph: "A beneficiary of sickness benefit who, from 1 March 2021 until 30 April 2021 until 30 April 2021 onwards, is to be transferred to a process of job clearance with resource progression benefit shall be entitled for two months from the date on which the person was to move to the job clearance process to continue receiving sickness benefit instead of moving to the job clearance process. I can accept that, because it is some people who are caught up in illness. I was able to accept that, and I would probably have agreed to it if it had been included at first reading. That amendment here, Amendment No. We can vote in favour of a new section 26h. Then there will be a new paragraph which we have not had the opportunity to discuss at first reading, and that is an extension of the 225-hour rule. That is what we in the Danish People's Party wanted to have shared, so we could have voted against the part that we did last time, but the answer is: No, we cannot share the bill because it has not been part of the first reading. It is an amendment to the draft law that we have debated at first reading. But how can a new paragraph, which has nothing to do with the second one we have debated at first reading, be an amendment to a legislative proposal? You put in two new paragraphs and you say, "Okay, I guess we'd forgotten that." Then you put it in here as a new paragraph. However, amendments can only be made to a legislative proposal which we have had the opportunity to debate at first reading. It may be that the lawyers say otherwise and that you can put it in. But it's just as bad a mess, the work of the ministry as it can be when you do it this way. And it's not okay to do it that way. When you do something like that, you have to make sure that it is in a legislative proposal so that we can debate it at first reading and decide on it there. We have not had the opportunity to do so. We have been able to see it in connection with the work of the committee and have had an explanation there that it was something that had to go through. And I can also see that the majority says yes to it, but it is just one of the worst things. I actually think it's the first time in the next 20 years I've been in here, I've been through doing it this way. Of course it is urgent legislation, and I fully agree with that, but the legal work must be in order, and it is just not here. However, the amendments relating to the new paragraph on the 225-hour rule will be rejected by the Danish People's Party when they come to the vote here just afterwards. I just think that the Minister should go home to his official and his official or who has been working on it or got the idea that you can just put it into a bill like that, which in fact has nothing to do with it from the start, and where you cut off the parliamentary opportunity to debate it at first reading, and say: this is simply not going to work. And I really think that the Minister should withdraw it and then table two separate legislative proposals with the new paragraphs that have been put in here. But I know that the Minister does not, because there is a majority in favour of it. But it is one of the worst work that has been done, and I did not really think so, because I have quite a lot of respect for the Minister for Employment and for what comes from over there to be in order. But this is just not. And it should be borne in mind that we are being deprived of the opportunity for the debate that Parliament has the right to have in the Chamber on a legislative proposal. We have been deprived of this with these two, because they are not amendments to what we debated at first reading. And that is regrettable. But it ends up with the Danish People's Party voting yellow to the whole bill, instead of saying yes to the bill, precisely because these paragraphs come in, and precisely because you cannot share because it has nothing to do with that bill. You can only share if they're in the bill from the beginning. It's just a piece of shit by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132829	Thank you to the rapporteur. It seems that there is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132834	Thank you. After all, we support in the Enhedslisten that the proposal could be divided, but there is something I do not understand in what the rapporteur has said, and that is why the Danish People's Party intends to vote against the part that concerns the 225-hour rule. The first time we had to vote on it, the rapporteur from the platform said that it would probably look brighter and that we would not be faced with this problem which would make us need to suspend the 225-hour rule. We can now see that, unfortunately, it has not been right that corona is still here, and we have had to suspend the employment effort and other measures in several stages. Does the rapporteur not think that it makes enormous sense to suspend the 225-hour rule and does not really consider the Danish People's Party to vote in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132922	At that time it was a long time ago; it was back in the spring we thought it was okay. Because the job centres couldn't offer activation. We thought at the time that it was a short period of time, and then it was over, but it wasn't, and we can see that the job centres can help activate those who need to find 225 hours of work. That is why we have changed our position on it and we are voting against it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132956	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309132958	But when we look at who is losing their jobs, who gets a light bill, who has difficulty entering the labour market, we can see that some of them are on the edge of the labour market; some of them are currently being hit by the 225-hour rule. Doesn't it make better sense instead of looking at how, when we start to open up it looks brighter than it looks, we can make sure that we can help these people get a job instead of bringing a whip and sanctioning them financially when there are no jobs they can take? That doesn't make sense. I think that the rapporteur has said some very good things and I wish the rapporteur would stick to the messages that the Danish People's Party has given in the past and that it was representative of the Danish People's Party as a whole. I don't understand why you suddenly turned on a plate on this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133044	The last time it was extended, we also voted against, so it is not something we are just doing today. We also voted against last time. And that was because the first time we agreed to extend the suspension of the 225-hour rule, we expected it to be a single swallow, and then it was over, and then we moved on. But we did not, and it should not be the case that you can be on cash benefits without participating in the activities offered. You have to look for the jobs you have to go out and participate in the labour market, and there are still small jobs you can get so you can meet the demand for these 225 hours. But we are voting against it today
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133120	There is one more brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133123	Thank you. I don't know if you can call it a big fuss for nothing. But what can be said is that we now have the opportunity to discuss and discuss it at least, which was what the rapporteur wanted. But the rapporteur himself also said that this was an extension of a suspension, which means that it is not something completely new that comes in from the right. There is also the possibility of voting 'no' in this respect, which is also the case. That is why it must be such a rather more procedural discussion than a substantive discussion, since the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party are thus given the opportunity to speak out against what they do not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133200	If the 225-hour rule had been included in the legislation at first reading, we would have been able to separate it, as in the past, so it was an A and a B proposal. At the time we got it divided, so it was a B proposal with the 225-hour rule that we said no to. However, because of the fact that it has not been debated at first reading, we are prevented from sharing the legislation. We cannot do that here because it is not part of the legislation we dealt with at first reading. It is a new paragraph that has been added as an amendment, and that is what is unsuited.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133232	Sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133234	I am then in agreement with the injustice, but what I am just trying to say is that the result is the same, whether you have done one or the other, and that is that the Danish People's Party is voting against this. I guess that's what's basically the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133245	No, it is not, because we would have liked to have voted in favour of the draft law, as we first dealt with it. That is what we said at first reading. We would have liked to have voted in favour of extending the benefit and sickness benefit. But because of this, we have to vote yellow for the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133303	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133314	Thank you, President. I also think that the process after the first reading has been very, very confusing and unsatisfactory. The Conservative People's Party is not included in the compensation agreement for mink growers. We are not because we believe that the agreement was too expensive. We would have preferred a hibernation scheme to be prioritised. The background has been discussed in the past, and I do not need to repeat it. As we are included in the agreement on further improvements to the aid packages for not least small businessmen from 9 February this year, we naturally support the amendments relating to the extension of the suspension of daily allowances until 30 April, the extension of the suspension of the 225-hour rule until 30 April and the extension of the entitlement to sickness benefit until 30 April. Unfortunately, the government has chosen to confuse the two agreements. We are very unhappy about that. We are in one agreement but are not in the other agreement, and we do not believe that the government will respect the fact that there are different majorities on the basis of the mink agreement and a helping hand for small businessmen, whom we want to help. I think that the confusion of the two agreements in this bill is a bad one. I hope that will not happen again. We have written back and forth with the Ministry, and there is still confusion about it. Having said that, however, we will end up voting in favour of the overall proposal because we believe that the responsibility to small businessmen is, after all, heavier than our dissatisfaction with the way the government has handled this bill. So we vote yes, but we are very dissatisfied with the process and hope it does not repeat itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133522	Thank you to the rapporteur. It does not appear that there is any brief comment to the rapporteur. Then I should like to ask if there are any more who wish to speak. As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133533	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-5, elected by a majority (S, V, EL, SF, RV, LA and ALT)? They are adopted. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 6, elected by a majority (S, V, EL, SF, RV, LA and ALT) and may be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 10 (DF and NB), abstained 0. Amendment No. 6 adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7, elected by a majority (S, V, EL, SF, RV, LA and ALT)? It's agreed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 8, elected by a majority (S, V, EL, SF, RV, LA and ALT) and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 10 (DF and NB), abstained 0. Amendment No. 8 adopted. I propose that the bill should now go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133707	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133729	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (DF, EL, KF, RV, IA, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Then I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309133800	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.50. This will allow us to get the seats cleaned up and to move the members back to the normal seats in the meeting management and voting system, so that we are ready for the next legislative proceedings. I therefore have to ask those Members who do not need to remain in the Chamber to leave the Chamber calmly and quietly. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.50.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309135111	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309135135	Thank you. This is an extension of the agreement of 25 January, when an agreement was made on mink, and this is point No. 7 of the mink agreement, which provides for a conversion for mink growers and followers. The agreement provided 100 million ECU for this purpose. kr. It operates with two tracks: one with employees and one with companies. This is the first part that has to do with the employees, so the framework we're working with is 50 million in this case. kr. This is the case, and it is clear that the whole situation surrounding the mink industry has resulted in this agreement having come in relation to giving employees an opportunity to retrain. There are, in itself, no major requirements in this respect other than that one should have worked from 1 January to 22 March 2021, all or part of the period, and then it is the case that one has to have completed one's training by 31 December 2021 and started by 1 April 2022 at the latest. So it can be said that there is relative pressure on such time in terms of getting started with this. But it is one, I think, very noble scheme that has been made and there is an economy around it. There is this financial framework, so it will also be a question of appealing to those within this framework to get started as soon as possible with some educational requests. From the Social Democratic side, we can recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309135324	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Hans Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309135348	Thank you for the floor. Just a few months ago, we witnessed a democratic scandal. The government chose to exclude the Folketing from the decision-making process and ordered all mink growers in the country to destroy their crews; an instruction given without a legal basis and in violation of the Constitution. And as a result of these actions, the former Minister for Food, Mogens Jensen, was forced to resign. This was a series of errors in the handling of the coronasmint mink, and it has all seen a picture of a government that is completely incapable of democratically exercising power. There are still too many unresolved aspects of the democratic scandal and too many explanations that make no sense. It is a shame, and the Danes are not served with it. The Danish mink industry was forced to its knees and, as a result of the government's disastrous handling, thousands of former mink growers, their spouses and employees are now out of work. With the agreement of 25 January this year, the Left ensured that both minkers, their families and the accompanying professions would be given a hand in moving forward. The Left also helped to ensure a significantly better, which provides a full and complete compensation to the interested parties. And in the Left, we wholeheartedly support the special effort to support a renewed development of growth and employment in the municipalities which are particularly affected by the killing of mink. We want to help those employed in the professions move on to employment elsewhere. By means of this bill, we translate parts of the agreement that deals with help for mink growers and employees in the industry so that they can get on properly with upskilling. The unemployed must move on as quickly as possible and start training so that they can once again become part of the working community. However, they did not belong to the group they thought they were supposed to belong to, namely the mink industry; the government put an end to that. On top of the minkskandale, we can and must ensure an active employment effort in which the unemployed, covered by the target group of the bill, are given the right to offer training. Today's bill cannot correct the errors made by the government, but hopefully it can provide the people concerned with the tools to get up and find a new way of life, and on that basis I have to say that the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309135642	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are also no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309135710	Thank you for that, President. This legislation should not have been necessary, but it became necessary because the government simply closed down the Danish mink. You give an order that every mink in Denmark should be killed not just the sick, but everyone. Whether they are healthy or not, they must be killed. You close an entire profession and then, as the previous rapporteur said, you are left with several thousand minkers, spouses, employees and people in secondary jobs who will be left without a job. One could have avoided much of this if one had tackled the mink in a different way and had concentrated on saying that one shuts down the farms that are diseased and had let the others run the fur season further and then had seen what it looked like. One had so much focus that one had to close an entire profession that it actually hurt. The impression was almost felt that the government, together with their support parties, had a great desire that now the Danish minkboard should be closed, and that now you had the chance to do so. At least there were some support parties who thought it was appropriate to say: Now we are closing the Danish mink industry. It just wasn't okay, and you leave a lot of people in the backpack. They have not even received the full compensation yet; it takes a long time. You must then help them further, and it is also okay, and of course the Danish People's Party supports this. After all, we must ensure that those who have become unemployed and those who cannot move on by themselves are given the opportunity to train for something else. So that's what this legislation here is going to help with. You can get a qualification, and you can get an education and get into another profession. What you have chosen is so extensive, but I think it is because you are unsure how many you really are dealing with. Because when you take benefit recipients, cash benefits recipients, educational aid recipients, transitional benefit recipients, sickness benefit recipients, people in job clearance, early retirement, people in resource development and survivors, you bring everything with you in this package, I don't think it's just targeted those who are affected in the mink industry. But leave it alone. This should not prevent the Danish People's Party from being able to support the proposal. I have a small question for the Minister, and of course the Minister is allowed to answer it when the Minister comes to the floor. Because this legislation says that you can get courses from 23 March. Does this mean that the Minister is already saying that until 23 March all the training courses have been opened up, that then the restrictions on training are removed? That was actually nice, because when this law is passed, those covered by this law can actually say from 23 March: I am about to start an education; I would like to do so here on 23 March. This can only mean that it is because the government has then opened up in all areas of education. The Minister may confirm this here from the platform, i.e. whether this is the case or whether it is a typing error that you have come to write from 23 March. I can only interpret it as meaning that it is because the unemployed then have the right to apply for a course starting from 23 March of. I think that is the greatest news of this legislation here, but that is probably not the answer I get from the Minister, so it is because the government is opening up in all areas of education, so they are open on 23 March, but it would be nice if the Minister could lift the veil a little. However, it is a good thing to help people who are affected by the closure of the mink industry and of the accompanying industries, and that they can get an up-skilling and get started with a new education. But I look forward to hearing the Minister say that all courses are fully open on 23 March so that they can just start training. That's exciting to hear. But the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140129	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140134	Yes, this is just one of several legislative proposals, which is the implementation of the agreement on compensation or compensation for mink growers. And we are in LA and DF in complete agreement that the policy pursued when the mink industry was destroyed in Denmark was wrong. There is just something I find difficult to understand, as I have the impression that the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of all the legislative proposals that implement the mink agreement: why was the Danish People's Party not really included in the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140206	Well, that's probably because we weren't asked to join. Now I don't remember what the process was like, because I wasn't part of the deal myself, but I actually think we got kicked out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140218	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140220	No, it wasn't like that. We sat around a square table in the Ministry of Finance, including the Danish People's Party negotiator, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. There we were presented with something that was a draft agreement, and at one point Dansk Folkeparti's negotiator no longer thought that Dansk Folkeparti should be involved. But it was a little difficult to catch the explanatory statement, I would say. So now I ask: if the Danish People's Party intends to vote in favour of all the legislative proposals that implement the agreement, why did not the Danish People's Party participate in the conclusion of the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140254	Well, the rapporteur has to ask, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, who sat at the table, changed. I did not sit in those debates and if I had been in those debates, there would probably have been a slightly harder course of negotiations. But I didn't sit there, and I don't know exactly what it was, but of course there was something in it that the Danish People's Party couldn't support. But I can guarantee that if I'd been there, the government wouldn't have gotten as cheap as they're here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140318	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and he is. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140329	This bill is a prospectful part of the whole mink story. People who were previously employed in the closed mink industry or associated occupations must continue in working life, and there can be a helping hand in training, a hand that pulls these people into a new working life, and a hand in the back of both the individual and the municipalities that are particularly hard hit. The unemployed must move on as quickly as possible, because the worst thing for an unemployed person is to be caught in unemployment. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140406	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is clear, and this is the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140419	Thank you. In November last year, the government decided that all minks on the Danish farms should be killed, and this has had and continues to have major consequences for the mink farmers and the associated accompanying industries. That is why a majority with the participation of the Radical Left made an agreement in January of this year. This bill, which we are talking about today, translates into a corner of the agreement, namely the establishment of a special scheme for unemployed people who have been employed in the mink industry or in the follow-up industries, so that precisely these people also have the opportunity of a different training and qualification to apply to other sectors. This is supported by the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140513	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten. It's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140536	Thank you. Generally speaking, on this draft law, it is a rather broad legislative proposal, and one might also hope that conditions would be such for all unemployed people. But otherwise one can say that one here in Parliament should remember that these people here have lost their industry forever. That is why it is only fair for employees to have extraordinary opportunities to train and train themselves so that they have a future in other professions. We have been strong advocates of education throughout the process and believe that this is one of the solutions. It may be said that it is good that the target group is defined as broadly as possible and that the usual trip threads, which otherwise characterise the training rules, are not stretched out. We hope that many will use this opportunity, for example. to train for the green transformation of our society. We are curious whether these training opportunities without the usual waiting periods, activation, economic narrowings etc. In this context, it should be noted that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction, and that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. Simply put: without more training for employees, neither the individual nor our productive labour market has any future. We would have liked the rates of training to be higher, for example. 125 per cent cash benefits, as it was in the old days, or that the period of the scheme was longer because it is not certain that all the aftereffects reach the end of 2021, as incidentally 3F has also pointed out. We think the parties to the agreement should consider this. But that being said, the Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140724	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140739	Thank you, President. This bill translates parts of the agreement concluded between the government and a majority in the Folketing on compensation for mink growers and secondary industries affected by covid-19. In concrete terms, this bill translates the part of the agreement which deals with the conversion of employees and the unemployed. The Conservative People's Party is not part of the mink agreement. This is partly due to the fact that the agreement was too expensive. We would have liked to have seen a hibernation scheme made it more attractive for growers who wanted to resume their business after the epidemic. Instead, the parties to the agreement agreed on a huge replacement for the de facto closure of the mink industry in Denmark. We believe that this could have been solved both more cheaply and better for mink growers and followers. For a long time we pressed for clarification on the issue of compensation for mink farmers, and we are therefore of course pleased that the mink growers have at least been given some clarification. Having said all this, we do not think this bill is good and we do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140900	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Now I can see that there has not been dried up, but since the rapporteur is fairly relaxed away from the platform, it will be all right. Welcome to sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309140917	Thank you. Well, then I have to shout out loud so that people can hear me without me touching anything. We can support the bill. When the government illegally killed the mink industry, it left the Danes with a massive bill, which was far greater than it should have been. But it also meant that there were a lot of people who were completely unwittingly caught up in these illegal acts by the government and therefore did not have the opportunity to continue working on what they did. You can help them this way, and we think it's right to do that. Of course, you should do that; you have a responsibility for that. We are not in the overall agreement, but we think it is appropriate to help these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309141001	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309141014	Thank you. The mink growers were subjected to a serious injustice when the government, without having the legislation for it, decided that the whole mink industry should be destroyed and killed, even without having the necessary professional ballast for it to be a necessity to save Denmark from a more violent development of the corona epidemic. Subsequently, the red majority in the Folketing granted legislation which made it possible to do what the government had already done. What was then left was that a proper compensation should be given to the mink industry in Denmark for the unfairness that had surpassed growers and others in the industry. We went to those negotiations and a result came out of what we thought was satisfactory. One of the elements of the agreement was that since mink growers could no longer deal with mink, they had to find employment in other industries, and that conversion to something else we would also like to help with. Normally it is not the case that self-employed people in Denmark, who go downstairs and home, must have money from public funds to come up with something else to do, but this wasn't someone who had gone downstairs and home because of their own actions. It was some who had been forced out by the Red majority in the Folketing. That's why we found it justified to give a help that we don't normally think the Treasury should be involved in. We still think so, and that is why we will also vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309141220	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Then no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and so I can give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309141232	Thank you very much for the floor, President. I would like to start by thanking you for the consideration given to the draft law today and for the comments made by the rapporteurs. After all, there is no doubt that the corona crisis has had a major impact on both companies and employees across the country, and this applies in particular to the mink industry and the accompanying industries associated with it, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned. In the autumn, the spread of covid-19 brought the Danish mink growers into a situation where, for the sake of Danish public health, they had to put their animals to death. At the same time, in December, Parliament adopted a ban on keeping mink in Denmark throughout 2021. With this bill, we are giving a hand to former mink farmers, employees, self-employed and assisting spouses in the mink industry and accompanying professions who have become unemployed as a result of it. The draft law stems from the political agreement on compensation for minkers and followers. The agreement included, among other things: allocated 50 million. kr. It is vital that they are helped quickly and purposefully to move on to other professions. Here it is quite obvious that you focus on the many green jobs we know arise with the green transition of Denmark. With the bill, unemployed persons from the mink industry and accompanying professions will be entitled to training immediately for the remainder of 2021 within the pool of 50 million. kr. The Court applies to all types of training, ranging from a short vocational course to a full vocational training course. The many possibilities give the individual the best cards on hand to change the industry or take the step from unskilled to skilled. That, then, is also an answer to Mr. Bent Bøgsted's question, which he raised in his rapporteur's remarks: the bill, when adopted, will enter into force on 23 March. From that point on, municipalities can start applying for the pool. But it is clear that they, what can be said, real training opportunities which the individual may embark upon, which everything else in the field of employment will have to be set in motion, bearing in mind the general restrictions. If you can get started at a time when there are no longer any restrictions on physical attendance, then of course you do, otherwise you will get started via the digital solutions that apply at that time. I hope that the bill can help the many people from the mink industry in jobs and support renewed development, growth and employment in the local areas affected. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309141518	Thank you, Minister. It does not appear that there are any brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309141535	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309141558	Thank you for that, President. L 175 may be technical, but is also a follow-up to one of the more overlooked Danish victories in EU cooperation. On top of the financial crisis in 2007-2008, the EU focused on where things went wrong and reached a higher level of security requirements in the financial sector. It was reasonable, in other words, because the financial crisis was created directly by too small and lax security requirements, which gave irresponsible financiers and yourto politicians far too great an opportunity to create a speculative bubble which, as you know, cracked with a bang to the detriment of citizens and societies. The EU looked at bonds as a financial asset. The problem was that Danish bonds have and had roots in an honest valuation due to coverage in real values, namely buildings and ships. The history of Danish mortgage is rich in adaptations to the development of society over the more than 200 years the mortgage has existed, but it has been characteristic that it has been based on the sound, snug principle that there must be real coverage of the bonds in the form of material assets. The EU's desire to adapt to the financial crisis was taking on a completely unacceptable dimension from the point of view of Denmark, which is why the changing governments have thrown themselves into a hard fight to ensure that Danish mortgage loans are valued as real assets and not as airy paper money. Fortunately, the way in which Danish mortgages are valued and mortgaged prevailed, as expressed in the Minister's speech: Danish mortgage is characterised by a very high level of security. It was a Danish priority during the negotiations of EU rules that the core elements of the Danish mortgage system could be maintained within the EU framework and that the proposal was based on well-functioning models such as the Danish one. • Of course, the directive is based on well-functioning markets, which is entirely in line with the Danish mortgage system when it comes to financing both buildings and ships, because Danish mortgage credit is characterised by a very high level of security. The draft law also applies to financial institutions and to the issue of covered bonds by Danish ship credit carried out as a minimum implementation and solely aimed at meeting the requirements of the directive. Additional collateral is required in the form of minimum cover and liquidity requirements, which is quite reasonable. Finally, information is required for investors to be able to assess the risks associated with their investment. On the social democratic side, we support the bill and even dare to praise it in order to safeguard the Danish mortgage model.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309141913	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309141932	Thank you. The Danish mortgage system is fundamental to the financing of our homes and commercial properties. It is a strong and secure system, it is well-known and it is well-functioning. This legislative proposal, which implements a directive on the issue and public supervision of covered bonds and the setting of cover requirements, ensures the framework of our system in an EU framework. The proposal has specific implications for the Danish financial and mortgage institutions and Denmark's Ship Credit, which precisely use covered bonds to finance mortgage loans in real estate and in ships. It is essential that the fundamental elements of the Danish system have been preserved within the European system. But it is also essential that the EU addresses this area. For no international financial system can stand alone. They are an integral part of the European financial system, which is also part of a global system. With the implementation of the directive in the European Member States, we will have a level playing field, that is. equal terms and equal rules for covered bonds and supervision thereof. It is also about a level playing field for competition and that we are helping to ensure financial stability in the European Union, because we need to have all financial institutions in the European Union have the same level of security behind the covered bonds. The National Bank also highlights this in its consultation response. However, the proposal is not without knots. The costs for the business community are to gain and feel and are due both to the over-covering requirement and to the abolition of the so-called replacement value as a valuation method. In relation to the over-covering requirement, Denmark attaches itself to the lowest value, i.e.: the 2%, because our system is strong in advance. It is positive that we are not at the top of the range of 5 per cent. In relation to the elimination of the replacement value as a valuation method, this is of particular importance for specialised industrial buildings. In the future, they must be valued at market value. That is something that worries us, and it is something that needs to be resolved so that we do not end up in a situation where it will be much more expensive to have mortgaged that type of property. For that, everything else equals lower values on paper, even if the underlying asset is the same as today. At the Left we stress that there is an involvement of stakeholders in the dialogue with the Danish FSA on valuation. On the back of L 175, therefore, an adjustment must be made to the valuation notice. The Minister also confirms in his hearing that the mortgage credit institutions and the relevant business organisations are being involved in order to ensure that the valuation of specialised industrial properties is also operational in the future within the framework of market value at European level. This is essential and we would also like to delve into the committee's proceedings. The proposal also contains a provision on investor protection, which deals with both increased information requirements and the cooperation of supervisory authorities. We want to help ensure the protection of investors without imposing unnecessary administrative burdens. So when the increased disclosure requirement means that information must be published at least every quarter, we place emphasis on simple, uniform requirements for the specific information. Moreover, supervision is at the heart of ensuring the financial system. It must ensure that the financial institutions do not go into the dark, and this has happened in the past. Today we have a division of labour between FSA and Financial Stability. That is why we also welcome the fact that the National Bank is being met by clarifying what the proposed work obligation between these two authorities entails, so that their roles are clear and do not cast doubt on competences. Clarity and not trouble. Finally, the Left stresses that we are not over-implementing, but are making every effort not to create increased costs for business and citizens. As I said, the draft law has the character of minimum implementation, and we would, after all, like this to be clarified in the committee's proceedings. Those were the comments from that and we look forward to a further reading of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309142412	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309142432	Thank you. The draft law to which the Minister of Business here gives its name is, in itself, a good legislative proposal. It is a bill that provides support, calmness and balance. There were many people in Denmark, companies and private citizens with debts that were on the verge of concern, compared to what would happen in the EU negotiations that were around the EU framework, in relation to maintaining the Danish mortgage model. With what the Minister has named in the written submission, the government believes that, with what we know to be a reality today, we can, like, take a deep breath and say that it might not be so bad even. We share that wording in the Danish People's Party. We certainly believe that the concerns that were far along the way were taken seriously, and that in doing so we also got things in, so that we were not left with a model where the Danish mortgage model was shot to shreds. What we have today is actually unique. For many, many years in Denmark, we have had a bond model and a mortgage model that many countries have been deeply envious of. And why do they have that? They do, of course, because there is a great deal of credibility about the way in which money is borrowed in Denmark, the way in which money is borrowed and the way in which security is provided for loans. This has meant, even outside the country's borders, that there has been a great desire to invest in secure securities, not least after the first financial crisis, many years ago, when one could see that even being able to get a return of 0.5%. In fact, it could end up being quite reasonable. So Denmark actually got through the financial crisis because of the high credibility of our financial framework in Denmark. And if we look at the Danish mortgage lending of agriculture in such a sober way, it was in fact also the credibility that made Danish farmers come through relatively sensibly. We agree that there were some who went from house to home, and we also agree that some were mortgaged and so on, but that does not change the fact that the overall framework was decisive in ending up with relatively few fatigue situations compared to the debt that existed in Danish business, private properties and commercial properties, not least. However, we must also remember that there are some things that may be less fortunate about it, and that is one of them. some of what we are talking about in relation to the EU part with its unlimited duration. Does it make sense now that you can just pay off and then say: 'I am actually doing very well in keeping with all my obligations?' Yeah, you do, but you don't pay off your debts, for example. Is it going so well, and is it a good payoff? Yes, you are when you pay the interest, but if the interest is very, very small, it means everything else equal that you have a very, very high level of availability elsewhere. And we also saw this in relation to the establishment of the repayment-free loans here in Denmark many, many years ago. Bendt Bendtsen was Minister for Economic Affairs and Business Affairs. One party then voted against the repayment-free model, and that was the Danish People's Party, because we were actually afraid that this could mean an overheating of market prices in many places in Denmark. That freedom of payment also has something to do with the bill we are discussing here today. It has, of course, been important for valuation, and it has also meant that, for example, the property market here in Copenhagen and in the metropolitan area came under massive pressure, at least up to the ravages of the financial crisis, which suddenly crossed the country's borders. So there is nothing like this cast in gold, and there is nothing that is such that it cannot break. We are not 100% sure with the model we have, but we are sure that what we are offering, also forward-looking, under the new EU regulation, is still a Danish mortgage model, which is certainly in good shape. And that also means that we still experience away that foreign investors are very busy coming in and buying Danish bonds etc. The draft law is based on this minimum cover. It makes sense that we are, of course, at the end of the scale. There are these liquidity requirements in relation to the large part of the bonds, and of course there are also the increased information requirements for the providers, so that investors must always feel that they are given a good and reasonable explanation of what the situation is in our bond market in general. So this bill looks very positive. We still think there are some places where it could have improved, but we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309142946	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309142949	Thank you. I am kind of glad that the Danish People's Party will support this bill. But I think that the rapporteur is a little lax about his history. Is it that a few people were caught up in the financial crisis that was created as a bubble in those 2007-2008 pieces, really the greeting that the rapporteur will send to the citizens of Roskilde and the surrounding area who saw their financial institution fall due to irresponsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143023	Perhaps I think that the rapporteur should have looked at his own story with the Socialists and the way in which successive ministers have been held on the FSA's territory. So, what was the biggest reason we experienced it with a Roskilde Bank and a Tønder Bank and an Amagerbank? It was a bad oversight. We should not go out and criticise others for this, but we should criticise the current minister and the current government for not having supervision there. We can take the Tønder Bank case. I think it was 41⁄2 years between physical supervision at Tønder Bank until the day when you came down and de facto closed the bank. So you can't just come down here in the Chamber and say that it's the fault of the Danish People's Party or that we haven't cared about these things. Well, we do have that to the very highest degree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143110	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143111	Well, I think the rapporteur needs to look at the annual figures in the history that the rapporteur is about to give. After all, the period in which the rapporteur feels ill about the FSA was the period during which the Danish People's Party supported Fogh and Løkkegovernments, and when things were allowed to develop with the bubble economy, and now the rapporteur stands and strikes out with his arms and says that there were only a few people who got caught up on that occasion. I am pleased that the rapporteur mentions all the banks and all the customers of the banks that, in the real world, were caught up in irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143147	Well, it can always be a fight down here, who came first, the chicken or the egg. But we can also try to go just a few years further back in time and look at the years when we had a Helle Thorning-Schmidt government. My acquaintance was at least on the paper Social Democrat. It may be that she was a citizen and all sorts of other things, but she was then elected for the Social Democrats, and then we also had a banking supervision which ran under these conditions. And maybe it was before Mr. Knox. Orla Hav became a member of the Parliament... it may well be... but that is the truth that exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143215	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143229	Thank you. The Danish mortgage system is unique, and we must protect it. It is in full and fine form, says the Danish People's Party today, and the SF supports it. This bill is about implementing an EU directive on the issue and public supervision of covered bonds and the setting of an overdraft requirement, etc. on the basis of the Capital Requirements Regulation. The proposal has the character of a minimum implementation, with only the amendments deemed necessary in order to meet the requirements of the directive. The significant new is a liquidity requirement where institutions have to have a certain amount of liquid assets available to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity during a period when institutions have difficulty in providing liquidity in the market. This is an absolute minimum implementation, and this is also stated in the many consultation answers that are available, which is why the SF also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143333	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Mrs. Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143351	Thank you. This is, after all, as before reviewed by other rapporteurs, the implementation of an EU directive on the issue of covered bonds and the supervision of this. After all, the covered bonds are used to finance mortgage loans and mortgage loans. The directive has taken account of the Danish mortgage, and implementation also has the character of minimum implementation, and that is of course absolutely crucial, so I would like to sign for that. The proposal introduces rules on liquidity requirements for covered bonds and a requirement for minimum cover for covered bonds. It must, of course, strengthen the security behind the covered bonds, so that the institutions can also cope with what should be said to be some kind of adversity. At the same time, increased information requirements are introduced for investors so that the level of risk of individual issuers can be better assessed. I also hope that the Minister will perhaps give some insight into the government's assessment of the consequences of the fact that the implementation of the directive will no longer be possible to use the replacement value. I also believe that it was Danish Industry and Agriculture & Food that has raised this concern but that it will now only be possible to use the market value. I agree that, at least as I understand it, it is part of the implementation of the directive that the market value can only be used, but I would nevertheless like the Minister's assessment of the consequences. With these comments, I would like to state that Radicals support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143541	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And if the rapporteur will just prepare for the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143558	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we welcome the fact that this is a minimum implementation. Several other rapporteurs have mentioned why this is a good idea. In short, the fundamental Danish mortgage sector should not be harmed by the directive. The lower level of cover for the collateral than that envisaged by the directive is also in line with the need to safeguard the Danish mortgage credit system. We also welcome the fact that implementation will involve a strengthened capital upholstery that contributes to financial stability. And other good things have been raised. That is why we are also looking forward to the committee's consideration and we can immediately support the proposal and the proposals for clarification contained in the government's consultation note on the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143651	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143706	Thank you for the floor. It doesn't mean much to you and me how the financial institutions choose to finance their mortgage loans, but it means a lot to the industry. Real banks, financial institutions and ship finance institutions may choose to issue bonds to finance their loans. These bonds are subject to a number of requirements aimed at making them particularly safe for investors, including requirements on the collateral underlying the bonds. We have to go back to 2007, when a broad political majority adopted the capital adequacy directive, in which the covered bonds were introduced into the Danish mortgage market as a result. Here in Denmark we have a tradition of mortgage credit, which is a unique and special way of financing housing in particular, which we are very happy about. Many people have been afraid over the years that we could continue to do so. We can, and we must. With this bill, it is simply a question of implementing an EU directive based on the existing Danish mortgage model, and this is a minimum implementation. But, of course, I will not fail to note that the draft law will lead to an increase in information requirements and thus more administration and the legislative proposal will lead to an increase in cover requirements and liquidity requirements. I don't really think that's fair. However, I note in the consultations that there has been a dialogue and that the sectors concerned have primarily secured a correct understanding of the directive, in which this cover cannot be completely avoided. Conservatives therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143839	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309143854	Thank you. Yes, we have a good mortgage system in Denmark, and we must safeguard that. Of course, we should not allow ourselves to be dictated by things from the European Union that can either overturn it or that can upset it. It is a national sovereignty that we must fight to preserve. This bill sets a level of cover, which is then called a minimum implementation, but it is still something that comes from the European Union and that makes it more expensive for some companies to borrow money. Then we are also concerned about what concerns specific sectors. Now the issue of the individual industries that are being hit has been raised by other parties, and I am sure that we can look at it during committee work to see whether there has actually been an over-implementation or whether we are sticking to the minimum level. But immediately we are not so positive about such a proposal here which makes it more expensive to operate in Denmark. Nor is it properly illustrated how much more expensive it will be, and if it becomes more expensive, it will of course have to be matched by a tax reduction in another area, so that it becomes neutral for Danish traders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144004	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the new citizens, and then it is the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144015	Immediately after the financial crisis, in the wake of the financial crisis, there was a wish in the EU Member States, including Denmark, that financial institutions could be saved by the Treasury. I mean, they shouldn't go back and forth, even if that was what had happened if they had been a different kind of business. They'd have gone downstairs and gone home. However, following the financial crisis, a broad majority in the Folketing and also in other EU Member States felt that these financial institutions should be rescued by taxpayers if they were in certain crisis situations. After all, it is state aid and it is a state aid that is not given in the EU context because it does not want companies in the EU Member States to compete for state aid with other companies in the EU Member States. Therefore, it was also decided to have common rules on the level of State aid, so that it was not the case that the state aid to the financial institutions was huge in Denmark and it could then be used to outperform financial institutions in other countries where the state aid was less or vice versa. In other words, the risk assumed by the Treasury is a state aid and the risk depends on the level of risk the financial institutions are carrying out. The greater the risk that a financial institution may run in a country, the greater the State aid that will be granted to the company when it is guaranteed that it will be saved by the Treasury if the risk is that it will be on its way to the bottom and back. That is why there are, of course, common EU rules in this area. As a result of the broad majority in the Folketing and in the Member States of the European Union in favour of state aid in this area, there are common rules on how State aid should be and, in this case, common rules on the level of risk to the state-owned financial institutions. That is why the European Union is regulating this. And as long as you want state aid, in that you want to save financial institutions, if they had gone downstairs and back home, you also have to accept that there are common EU rules on how this state aid should develop, and that is to say on how much risk the financial institutions have to take on. On the day that there is a majority in the European Union to say that it does not really care whether the financial institutions go down and back home, one can also say with a clear conscience that then the financial institutions must decide for themselves what risk they are taking on, but that day has not yet come up. It may be that one day in a liberal future one will also accept that banks and mortgage banks can go downside-down and home. But until that happens, we need rules on what they take on risk, because it is taxpayers who cover the bill, and that is why we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144322	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144325	Apparently, it's the day you walk your own storywriting. The truth is that it was not Danish mortgage which had anything to do with the financial crisis. What had to do with the financial crisis was an irresponsible banking sector which had been out making some airy commitments that suddenly collapsed. But the mortgage sector was so solid and so good because it was based on sound and proper valuations and lending practices. Then Mr. Ole Birk Olesen does not take out the part of the storytelling that is drawn into the liberalist context, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen would like to express himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144414	I think, sir. Orla Sea needs to find out about himself if Mr. Orla Hav will vote for this bill or not. For the reason for voting in favour of the draft law is that there has to be a regulation which means that mortgage credit institutions cannot take on too much risk when it is the case that the Treasury will ultimately save them if they go downstairs and home. Sir. Orla Hav believes that it will never happen to a Danish mortgage credit institution, and I am not in a position to assess whether it will ever happen, but that is at least the reason why we have this regulation at all on the extent to which mortgage credit institutions have to take on risks. It is because we also have rules that we save them if they are going to go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144453	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144456	Well, the mortgage has proven in a more than 200-year history that it hasn't had to be saved. It has, of course, acted wisely and wisely, as I said in my rapporteur's speech. What was the problem was that sir... Ole Birk Olesen's liberalist friends unleashed a brittleness in the financial field, which led to credit derivatives and everything else that people didn't have an earthly chance to understand. Even the director of Roskilde Bank couldn't understand it, with the result that his customers got in a tight and thorough way. That's the world picture, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is trying to idyllicize. I don't want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144537	Again, sir. Orla Hav must find out why he is voting for this legislation, since it is not necessary to save the Danish mortgage banks from taking on too much risk. In other words, the reason why we have EU legislation in this area, which we are now implementing in Danish legislation, is not that we in Denmark have some definite desire for it to go in a particular direction. This is because we have these common rules for a country not to be able to support its financial institutions with State aid more than other countries. So when Mr. Orla Hav at one point presses the green button in this Chamber, it is because Mr. Orla Hav agrees with the interpretation of things that come from me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144612	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur's line and the next person to speak is therefore the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309144632	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate and comments on the bill here. After all, as has been mentioned, this is a legislative proposal implementing a directive aimed at creating a harmonised basis for regulating the issue of covered bonds in the European Union. The draft law also lays down requirements on the basis of a regulation. Covered bonds are particularly important in relation to the Danish mortgage model, which ensures cheap and flexible loans to citizens and companies and which secures liquid bonds for the benefit of others. the Danish banking and pension sector. Therefore, during the negotiations on the directive, Denmark prioritized that the core elements of the Danish mortgage system could be maintained within the EU framework. This has been largely met by a directive based on well-functioning models for financing real estate such as the Danish one. The Danish rules in force in this area are basically in line with the new EU rules, and the draft law therefore lays down a directive on minimum harmonisation, which involves only minor changes in existing Danish legislation. The draft law introduces a requirement for additional collateral behind mortgage banks' bonds in each of the Institute's so-called capital centres. This is also what is called cover requirements and the proposal reflects that the regulation recognises the Danish system as particularly safe, which is why it is possible to set lower requirements than the Regulation's starting point. It is therefore an opportunity that we are proposing to take advantage of with the proposal. The proposal also sets out a so-called liquidity buffer requirement as a further strengthening of the covered bonds. In this area, I am pleased that we have been able to take advantage of the derogation provided for in the directive to lay down a minor requirement for the part of the Danish covered bonds that is matched. Matchfunding is the property of the Danish mortgage model, which involves a close link between loans and bonds. These represent the vast majority of the covered bonds in Denmark, and this means that the Danish mortgage model's ways of reducing liquidity risk are thus recognised. The proposal amends the valuation rules for a few specialised properties. This means that the Danish rules are aligned and harmonised with the rules that apply throughout the EU and that the security of the bonds is strengthened. The amendment of the valuation rules shall be implemented so as not to affect existing borrowers. This is an issue which has been addressed by both the rapporteur of the Left and also the rapporteur of the Radicals, and we shall try to qualify the extent and volume of it. It is quite true that it follows very closely from European legislation that we are going this way, but therefore it may be appropriate to identify what the consequences of this may be. And I would just like to say to both the rapporteur of the Radicals and the Left, what was also mentioned and reproduced from the consultation answer, namely that, on this point, the FSA has indicated to Finance Denmark that when the detailed valuation rules are to be revised as a result of this bill, Finance Denmark will also be involved in order to ensure that the valuation of specialized industrial properties is also forward-looking, which is operational. It must, of course, be within the framework of this market value as it has been set and applied at European level, but of course there is a reality that you encounter when implementing the law. And there we will be implementing the involvement which was also demanded by the rapporteur of the Left. Then the proposal also introduces new rules on investor information. The rules here are based on a well-established market practice already followed by the Danish issuers. Finally, the proposal makes a number of minor amendments of a technical nature. This concerns, among other things: adapting the rules on authorisation, labelling, intra-group joint funding and supervision, and bringing Danish legislation into line with the wording of the Directive. This does not lead to changes in the basic mortgage model here in Denmark. In those words, I look forward to the further examination of the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309145055	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309145108	The debate is open. The first to speak is the rapporteur of the Social Democrat Party, Mr President. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309145134	Thank you for that, President. L 176 implements a number of minor legislative changes to the Product Act adopted by a unanimous Parliament in June 2020. First of all, the legislative proposal will update the framework of the Product Act so that it will apply to several relevant products, including the labelling of footwear and textiles, as well as the area of metrology and accreditation. The purpose of the Product Act has been to add products when the market had matured there. The proposal here is an example of how it works well and as it should. This strengthens product safety so that consumers are protected and controls and rules become clear to businesses. The bill also includes amendments to the Maritime Safety Act, which will ensure that the Danish Maritime Authority is given some of the same powers that the Danish Safety Authority uses for control and supervision. This will mean that the board can better protect the consumer from, for example, unsafe marine equipment, which can be used both in countries with tough requirements and in countries with less stringent requirements. The proposal also contains an amendment to the so-called fireworks law. It provides the Minister for Business with rules on civil rockets, which will clarify who the authority is in this area. Finally, the deadline for the first marine plan, which has proved to be more time-consuming than initially assumed, is postponed. In the Social Democratic Party we welcome the adjustments mentioned. We also note that the consultation responses show support for the draft law and a positive reception of its elements. So, on the whole, we support the bill from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309145339	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309145400	Thank you for the floor. Since the rapporteur of the Left on this bill, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, is prevented from being in the Chamber today, I have promised to read the speech. In Denmark, we must be confident that the products we buy comply with applicable rules and safety requirements. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal which contains a number of initiatives, including: must contribute to it. The draft law proposes to extend the product law and, at the same time, gives the proposal a better opportunity to take action against companies and online platforms that do not comply with the rules. This should be done by allowing higher fines to be imposed for infringements of the rules in the new areas which will be covered by the Product Act. It is therefore proposed, firstly, that among other things: crystal glass goods and textiles are added to the Product Act. Secondly, it is proposed that the regulation of metrology and accreditation should be transferred from the area of the Security Authority to assembly under the Product Act. Thirdly, it is proposed that the control authorities' powers under the Product Act may also be used for the supervision of professional recreational craft, marine equipment and personal vessels. The draft law also proposes that the Minister for Industry be given the opportunity to lay down rules for small non-governmental missiles. Finally, it is proposed that the deadline for the adoption of the plan by the Minister for Industry should be removed as a result of a delayed consultation which makes the original deadline impossible to comply with. In the Left, we welcome the addition of a number of new product areas to the existing law on products and market surveillance. We believe that a uniform framework across different product areas creates greater transparency and efficiency in control. Fortunately, we have a lot of companies in Denmark that are making a huge effort to comply with the rules. Unfortunately, however, there are also those who do not want to follow the rules. That is a distortion of competition, and we must take a tough stand against it. For we must, of course, reduce the risk of illegal products being sold in Denmark, and the Danes must be able to trust that their purchased products are in order. Against this background, we support the proposal and thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309145623	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309145642	After all, the government has put forward this bill because, of course, we have to comply with the guidelines that have been set out, and when you are part of a regulation under the EU, we must of course also look at whether it makes good sense for Denmark in relation to Danish interests. In relation to the specific bill here, it is the EU's market surveillance regulation that is at the heart, and the Danish People's Party has the pragmatic approach to it that when these implementation parts are considered here in the Danish Parliament, we look at it from a consideration of whether they are in favour, benefit and pleasure for Danish consumer interests and Danish companies, and if they are not, we say nicely and politely no. And the proposal that is here, we believe, is one of the first. In fact, we believe that this is for the benefit of consumers. We believe that it would be sensible to strengthen control of product safety in this area, and that would of course also benefit Danish consumers. Then you can discuss why these are the elements that the government and the regulation from the European Union have suddenly taken an interest in, that is, the labelling of footwear and textiles, and there is even something about crystal glass. I don't know if the government's been looking in the crystal ball, but it's definitely been included in this bill, and I'm not going to oppose that. I think that may make sense, but it is clear that the more things you start to put into a framework law, the less legislation there will be left of ordinary Danish legislation in this area. And we are not such a party that simply says yes to everything that comes from EU regulations. We have to go in and look at it: what is it, it contains factually? What speaks to its advantage, and what is unfavorable? But on the basis of what we have been given here and the consultation answers that are, and so on, the things that lie there, we consider that it is within the framework of being able to support L 176.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309145912	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen
ParlaMint-DK_20210309145926	Thank you for that, President. L 176 is about an amendment to the law on products and market surveillance, the law on business promotion, the law on safety at sea, the law on fireworks and the law on maritime spatial planning. It is to be completely blown off, and it is to keep your tongue straight in your mouth when a legislative proposal with so many aspects needs to be dealt with. Basically, it is a setup that ensures the control of a group of goods through the Danish Security Agency, thereby ensuring a uniform framework for monitoring the safety and conformity of the product. The law is to complement an EU regulation on market surveillance and product conformity. The same uniformity is given in the Law on maritime safety, the primary purpose of which is that the regulatory authorities should supervise, for example: marine equipment. In addition, this bill will allow the minister to lay down detailed rules on civil rocket activity. Finally, the deadline for issuing the first marine plan will be abolished, pending the work of the Ministry of the Environment on the designation of nature areas to be protected. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150040	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Mrs. Katrine Robsøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150059	Well, thank you. There are plenty of people who have told me what this bill specifically contains... I don't think there's any reason for me to go through, that is, the conspiracy that's in this bill. However, I would just like to ask, in relation to the product law, that there are a number of comments in the consultation answers in relation to the fact that the whole area of accreditation is also being shifted over and whether this is appropriate. I would just like to hear the Minister's thoughts on that. In addition, I am also not an expert on whether crystal glass should be in one place or another, but it is very good that we have some good officials who are aware of this sort of thing. It also looks very good, at least when I look at it, with the adjustment in relation to safety at sea and with this in relation to the small civil rockets. Like I said, there's a good piece of shit in this bill. And although we of course believe that it is regrettable that it is necessary to postpone the consultation of the marine plan, we also believe that the justification for the designation of nature areas in the Ministry of the Environment is correct and understandable. And with those words, I would like to say that Radicals support the draft law as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150235	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150253	Thank you for that, President. In the Enhedslisten, we voted warmly in favour of the Product Act last June, and in the same way we warmly support enlargement here. In addition, if you had to make some other comments, perhaps it should be that the level of fines for breaches of the rules has become significantly higher than it is today. It was one of our criticisms last time. So of course we think that is positive. I have nothing more to add. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150320	Thank you for that to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150341	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I'll make it almost as short. Last year, after all, we adopted the Product Act, and today we are going to expand it with several product categories, and crystal glass, footwear and textiles have been mentioned. The aim is to oppose the sale of illegal products and to increase consumer safety and safety. There has been an increasing need for this and it costs nothing, and I can only repeat what I said last year about this: we do not want this kind of junk and we do not want the unfair competition. The draft law, as has also been mentioned, also contains exciting things, such as: launch rockets and safety at sea. It sounds crazy, but it is all quite quiet and therefore Conservatives support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150417	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. I would ask Mrs Mona Juul to prepare the platform for Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150430	I love this bill. It is simply a pleasure, because I can now officially call myself a rocket rapporteur. I do have nine rapporteurs in advance, but now I am officially also a rocket rapporteur. Yeah, they're small civilian rockets, but let it go, because I think that's a detail, sir. Minister. I consider myself to be a rocket rapporteur, and I will lift that task to unparalleled heights. Basically, it is good that there is security in relation to the products concerned. We have received a number of requests from some producers, and we have some written questions about it, and we will overlook that so that we can have an answer to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150506	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150518	The Liberal Alliance is in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150523	Thank you. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and the next one to speak is the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150530	Thank you. I'd like to start by saying that I'm feeling exactly the same way as Mr. Thompson. Lars Boje Mathiesen, because I love this bill too. It is true, as many have said, that it is a legislative proposal which implements a number of amendments to a number of laws, and it can be said that the overall purpose of the bill is to extend the framework for control of products for which a unanimous Parliament created the framework in 2020 with the adoption of the Product Act. This means that the powers that we then gave to the authorities to enforce product safety and ensure that products comply with the rules will now embrace even more areas. This is going to benefit consumers because the powers are largely aimed at stopping dangerous and illegal products sold from websites outside the EU, and it also benefits Danish companies because competition conditions are improving when everyone follows the same rules of the game. With the draft law, the government is continuing its work of hard-working towards companies that are not prepared to comply with the applicable rules, and with the legislative proposal we will also ensure a uniform and timely complement to the EU market surveillance regulation in the Ministry of Industry before it comes into force here on 16 July of this year. So a little more specific to the content: firstly, the draft law envisages extending the scope of the product law to a number of further areas. It concerns metrology and accreditation, as well as a few minor areas relating to the labelling of textiles, footwear and, as has been said, crystal glass, which is also covered by the market surveillance regulation. In relation to the accreditation issue raised by the Radical Left rapporteur, the transfer of accreditation from the Business Promotion Act to the Product Law is done in a way that does not have any substantive implications for the accreditation area. That is just to get it said from here, because we can of course elaborate on it further in committee work, but on the content side it should not have any impact on that area. Secondly, the draft law amends the law on maritime safety. The primary objective is that the regulatory supervision of marine equipment, recreational craft and personal vessels may apply the control powers of the Product Act to the extent that the powers in question do not already result from the Maritime Safety Act. This means that the Maritime Authority, in carrying out supervision, is given the same powers as the Danish Safety Authority already has today. Thirdly, the draft law will allow the Minister of Industry to define the framework for what has been called small so-called non-governmental and civil rockets. In this context, I believe that a 'jojo' was added, of course, by the SF rapporteur. This proposal is a follow-up to the recommendations of an inter-ministerial working group set up back in 2018 by the then government to address the challenges posed by the lack of regulation of the area for both safety and the environment. The detailed rules will subsequently be laid down in a notice and, as has been said, the aim is primarily to improve safety in this area. Fourthly, for reasons of order, the draft law abolishes the deadline for the issue of this first marine plan, which is on its way. This is a deadline which unfortunately cannot be met because the consultation of the marine plan has been postponed so that the plan can take account of the work of the Ministry of the Environment on the possible designation of new protected natural areas under the Marine Strategy Directive, and that work has therefore proved more time-consuming than was initially thought. So thank you for the many positive comments made by colleagues in this Chamber, and I look forward to the further consideration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150913	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309150935	I am looking around the Chamber for the Minister for Justice and the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. The debate is open. I do not see the Social Democrat rapporteur, so we take the rapporteur from the Left. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309151315	Thank you. I believe that the reason why some rapporteurs were not down here from the beginning was that many were trapped in the Committee on Legal Affairs, so I can reassure those who are watching that it is not because people are not doing anything they have probably just like the Minister of Justice been busy with other things that also need to be looked after. However, it is important that we also have this bill taken care of. It is an important legislative proposal for a law amending the law on investigating commissions and the law on the administration of justice. One part of the bill is the least complicated, namely the implementation of this so-called Jens Peter Christensen committee. Supreme Court Judge Jens Peter Christensen has been in charge of looking at some adjustments to the law on investigating commissions, among others. to make the work slide faster. The Commissions are often criticised for the fact that it takes a very long time and, incidentally, is also very expensive. This draft law implements some proposals, and I think there is also a single change that is about the government and the government's support parties' understanding paper, but I will leave that to them to explain to the honourable thing. I would like to concentrate on what I consider to be the most important thing in the legislative proposal, namely the implementation of investigative committees. In fact, this is quite historic, on a sad background: the mink case, where a majority in the Danish Parliament has a desire to have this case examined in depth and to find out who was responsible for the decisions taken and whether the legislation was complied with and not just whether the minks were killed on the right professional basis, which is one discussion or whether the decision was taken without a home, or, to put it more directly, on a non-legal, or even more direct, illegal basis. It must be examined, and a majority in the Folketing also wants it to be examined, not by a committee set up by the government, which has hitherto been the option, but by a commission set up by the Folketing, specifically suspended on the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and a committee of inquiry, which will be implemented by an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. So the actual legal basis for the fact that it is not the governments that it is not something new; that has always been the way to initiate the investigations of itself or their predecessors, but that the Folketing can also choose to do so, is the main content of the bill we are discussing here today, and it is quite reasonable that we should now make the changes, and we support that in the Left. After all, this is an agenda that has been discussed in the Folketing all the time I have been there, and it is 13-14 years. Parliament would like to have some stronger tools for carrying out investigations, and a desire has been expressed to have parliamentary hearings in place. My party has not been in favour of that, then there are other parties that have been and when we have not been, it is of course a question that when you look into something and take such a large legal tool out of the toolbox, there are some guarantees of legal certainty for those you are investigating. Whether ministers are red, blue, purple or any other color, there is legal certainty for citizens, and that must be the case for ministers too, and there must be a special case for those officials who do not normally stand up for themselves in public and defend themselves. So there must be legal certainty and legal guarantees for them, but it must not be an obstacle in order to be able to investigate things. That is why we in the Left have been lukewarm about parliamentary investigations, but we are very positive about what is here, and I hope that a broad majority in the Folketing will support it, because in this way we will get what I believe will prove to be an effective investigative tool, where we can get to the bottom of whether the law has been respected by the government that sits or previous governments and do so in a way that also has legal certainty and guarantees for those who have to be questioned, and we can do so at a speed that is somewhat higher than in the past and therefore also at a cost that will be somewhat lower than in the past. So you achieve the same result, namely that when you have a case that you think is so important that it should be examined by a committee of inquiry with a national judge in charge, then the Folketing has the opportunity to do so and is not dependent on the government doing so at the request of the Folketing. That is how it is in a number of other parliaments, and it is now also the case in Denmark, and I think that is going to be good for current, past and future governments and for the Folketing and for those it is about, namely the Danes. In those words, we in the Left support the proposal as it stands. We have some questions on this and we will ask them in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309151821	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. As the rapporteur of the Left pointed out, it is difficult for the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs to be in two places at once, and that is why we also missed the rapporteur of the Social Democrat Party, but I am now giving the floor to Mr Gundelach. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309151848	Thank you. I'm sorry I wasn't here at the start of the treatment of this. I was simply chairing a committee somewhere else and followed it, but I understand that the draft law before this one struck a new record in rapid legal proceedings in the Parliamentary Chamber, which is why I was taken to bed there. I'm sorry. Nevertheless, the draft law that we now have to deal with should, in fact, also slip relatively easily through the reading, given that it was a unanimous Parliament which, before Christmas, adopted what was the basis for this bill. And I think, and I have at least heard this from my good colleague Karsten Lauritzen from the Left, that he has also gone through the main elements of this bill as well. It is, of course, a simple matter to ensure that we now amend the law on investigative commissions so that these new types of parliamentary investigations can be carried out in the future, including the setting up of investigative committees. And as I understood, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, he also expressed the scepticism previously expressed by the Left, which we share in the Social Democratic Party, about how to deal with this issue. Nevertheless, it is natural that democracy should develop. It's not a static size. The same applies to the work we have here in the Folketing: it is not static either; it also develops. That is why it is also in the spirit of democracy that we constantly look at the balances that are also between a government and the work that is going on in the Folketing. That's kind of an expression of it. It is, of course, also an expression of the fact that, in the paper of understanding we made when the government came in, we also dealt with this question of looking at how parliamentary investigations work. That is why, of course, we in the Social Democratic Party support the bill before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152041	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Social Democrat rapporteur, so we have come to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152057	Thank you, President. It is a good day for the people of Denmark. Today we can discuss this new instrument, the investigative committees, which we hope will soon be able to adopt. After all, it is a well-known fact that the government has strengthened its powers to different degrees and in different ways, especially since the parliamentary elections. This is true in relation to manning, in relation to how to coordinate work, and also in relation to the fact that we are talking about a one-party government which is clearly far more arbitrary than has been experienced with previous governments, where several parties have been involved and should be heard, etc. Therefore, it is natural that we as the entity that, in addition to legislation, has the power to control the government as its dearest, perhaps even most important, then follow with and also make sure to develop Parliament's muscles to ensure that the members of the government move within the legal framework and that we have better opportunity to look the executive power over the shoulder. This is exactly what this proposal is doing and, as the rapporteur of the Left rightly reports, it is initiated by a very specific case, but it is not limited to that; on the other hand, it is a completely new, broad power which, without the sunset clause, must apply to Danish parliamentarianism, which is now being given the opportunity. It is quite clear, when you read the comments, that it is a bill written by the Ministry of Justice, but which is clearly going to be on the side of the Folketing. Where ordinary committees of inquiry are, after all, a body which can be set up by the government and which refers to the government, then the investigative committees will be unequivocally the tools of the Folketing. That is why we have also noticed, without it being understood as such as criticism, that there are quite a lot of attempts, especially on pages 8 and 9, to narrow down what search commissions can and must be used for. It doesn't have to be bad. In other words, it may be good if you read it in such a way that it is precisely about getting an effective study of what you have set out to do. This does not mean that we are against, for example, the fact that investigative commissions have to work faster than investigative commissions. But it is clear that it is not the speed that is crucial, but the thoroughness. Nor do we put anything directly negative in the attempt to delineate the areas that can be examined in the future as being of general importance. However, it is clear that there are different perceptions of what is of general importance. Is the mink industry generally important? Yes, at least we in the Danish People's Party think so. But you can argue for both sides. Similarly, there are a number of attempts by the Ministry of Justice here to define the subject area of what can then be subjected to a review. And as I said, we do not necessarily read that negatively. That is precisely why it is also important for us to be told here today at first reading that, first of all, we see that research commissions are thus the instrument of the Folketing to control the government and that these attempts to narrow the subject matter of the investigations should be seen most of all in order to get it as accurately and accurately as possible when setting up these investigative committees, and not as a real attempt to restrict the parliamentary use of investigative committees. In the Danish People's Party we believe that not only the forthcoming examination of the minkaff will be important, but that the instrument in general to be able to look at both this and future governments in the maps will be able to become a good instrument, which hopefully will not both temporally and financially burden taxpayers, citizens, as much as investigative commissions do. And we believe that it will therefore be an up-to-date response to it, what can be said, the upgrade that the executive has carried out over the last two years. So, as I said, this is a good day for Danish popular rule. As you know, we do not have government or government in Denmark, but government, and it is now manifesting itself by the fact that the Folketing has more muscles to work with. We welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152545	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152548	It is really just a question or a comment on the definition of the legislative proposal, etc. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that this bill one to one is identical to what we did together in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152616-2	I have not announced any amendments or anything like that. What I have given here is in fact only a clarification of how we understand this text. So, sir. Jeppe Bruus should not take it as a declaration of war, but rather as an outstretched friendly hand, so that we as parliamentarians can walk through life and together keep an eye on the government in office at all times. I feel sure of that, sir. Jeppe Bruus agrees with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152643	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152644	Absolutely. There are probably some others I prefer to wander hand in hand with through life with, and it's also beautiful. But I agree with the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152700	I still think that when Mr. Jeppe Bruus has to look inward, hopefully he's a member of parliament before the Social Democrat. This must be the case for all of us. One might imagine that one day some people may dream more about it than others may again be a bourgeois government in this country. One could also imagine that it is so a slightly less famous dream... a bourgeois government without the Danish People's Party. But if we imagine the kind of lukewarm dream, it might be that Mr. Jeppe Bruus and I could walk together there, and it might be that it should not be hand in hand. I'm sure there's still some protective equipment at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152734	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152746	Today we are dealing with something that is a small piece of democracy: a new tool in the parliamentary toolbox, because this proposal is going to introduce a completely new form of investigation, but with the same degree of legal certainty and opportunity as an ordinary commission. It just needs to be able to work faster, and then there is a completely different regime on the part of the Folketing, because it is the Folketing that sets up these commissions and defines the mandate. Today, as you know, the Ministry of Justice is taking care of that part. We think that's really good. We ourselves helped to draw up the report on the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, which forms the basis of the proposal here today. At the same time, the bill closes the gap that a Minister of Justice or a government alone can close a commission, as long as the purpose is objective. We really think it is fair enough to ask the Folketing before closing a commission. And so it will be in the future. There should be no doubt that, particularly in the SF, we were sorry about the Iraq Commission, which was closed by a Left Government. It is not certain that things would have turned out otherwise if Parliament had been asked about it, but it would have been most democratic if they had done so. We still think that commission was important in the SF. With that in mind, we can support the proposal here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152911	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Can I ask the rapporteur just to prepare for the Radical Left rapporteur? Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309152938	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteurs who have been on the platform and thank you in advance to all the parties of the Danish Parliament for this excellent bill, which we have been calling for for a long time from the radical side. We have always wanted a flexible and less far-reaching tool to investigate matters relating to government governance. We think it should be anchored in the Folketing when doing such studies. We can see today that it takes a long time, even a very long time, to set up and implement a commission of inquiry, and that even happens under the auspices of the government, and we do not think that is the right way to do so. So we would very much like to have an outstretched hand for example. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and the other rapporteurs implement this tool that empowers the Folketing to handle these things. We will have this opportunity to set up investigative committees following the debate on what happened at the beginning of the corona epidemic with regard to the minks. Hopefully, it will be the investigative tool that will be used in future when there are differences in the conduct of government that the Danish Parliament feels called to investigate, and we are pleased that it is anchored in the Danish Parliament. It makes good sense that the Folketing is the source of this type of study, and it is also parallel to what is happening in other countries. We are grateful for the general support for this proposal in advance, and we look forward very much from the radical side to this becoming a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153053	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur, I can see in the Chamber, is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153117	Thank you, President. This bill translates the joint report adopted by the Danish Parliament in December 2020. A new parliamentary instrument is now coming into the world, a more flexible and less heavy instrument, but still away in the form of a Commission. Too far along the way the investigating commission resembles the common and well-known tool, a commission of inquiry, but a commission of inquiry is typically very slow-moving and takes a long time. This so-called committee of inquiry is working quickly and must have a mandate to be examined within one year. It places great demands on the members of parliament in relation to the art of limitation, and we have had many discussions in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. My good colleague, Mrs Mai Mercado, has at least whether we should extend the mandate after it had been adopted, because there were naturally interesting points which could also be interesting. The second difference is, of course, that the instrument here is anchored in the Danish Parliament and not in the Ministry of Justice, and this is an expression of the fact that the Danish Parliament and the people's government have a greater role to play. The Commission will have its seat in the Danish Parliament and not in the Ministry of Justice. Moreover, it is also sensible to clarify formally that, as the previous rapporteur mentioned, the commission of inquiry cannot be dismissed by the Minister for Justice outside the Folketing. In fact, today it will depend on a majority in the Folketing, but it is good to have informal processes formalized. The similarities between the two tools are many, but the most important thing is for both instruments to talk to officials. During the discussions on a new tool, there were political discussions on whether the principles of legal certainty could be applied in the case of talking to officials, and there we Conservatives stood guard over the principle of legal certainty all the way. During the work on the report, we discussed the instruments with a number of stakeholders, including the Djøf and the Court Association, who made us both wiser and gave rise to good reflection in relation to maintaining the important legal guarantees for the official work. However, there appear to be a number of unresolved issues which were raised at an earlier meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but here too it is important to clarify a number of those issues. We agree that the need to put the precautionary principle into practice for investigative committees is exactly the same as for committees of inquiry, and the issue of the precautionary principle is very, very important for us Conservatives. So we look forward to the first committee of inquiry being set up shortly. It contains a very clearly defined issue which relates to the government's decision to kill all minks in Denmark and to the legality, or rather the illegality, of this decision. And, of course, we expect the Commission to produce an impeachment case just like the impeachment case on which we had to vote in January. In short, there are equal standards for everyone. I am pleased that it is a unanimous Parliament which today supports this bill. At one point we feared that among the Red parties only the Radical Left would support it, but when there was a majority, the SF, the Enhedslisten and finally the Social Democrats also chose to back the agreement. That's really, really good. But if history tells us that it was a united Parliament that introduced this new parliamentary tool, then I hope that we remember the chronology: that it was the Radical Left that helped to create the majority and then it all moved forward. So I would particularly like to thank the Radical Left for their role in working on the new form of investigation. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153507	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153515	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his kind words, but it is precisely a unanimous Parliament that is carrying this out. And that's the most important thing for us. It's not who the credit is, but more that we get an effective and thorough tool. So I thank you for your kind words, but I must share them with the Assembly as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153536	That is, of course, a good point, but the chronology is worth mentioning, at least we think from here. So thank you again to the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153542	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153544	Well, thank you for that too, and I hope that we can use the tool together in the good spirit in which it has been developed, namely as a tool to carry out our control of the government in place at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153556	Well, I wanted to say thank you, but I think we've thanked each other enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153602	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153605	I don't really know why that chronology is important. I think that we have had a good and constructive job, including with the Conservative colleague Mai Mercado, and it is clear that there are discussions in this context. There are many things in this that are good, among other things. We cannot have a repetition of what the then bourgeois government did, that is to say, that you simply resign a commission because you disagree with the content, as was done with the War Commission, and that is how we could continue to make such remarks. I now welcome the fact that we can actually have a Parliament in which, despite the fact that it is a little buzzing sometimes, we can also work together and talk about common solutions, and that should, after all, be the key point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153646-2	I'm not quite sure if there was a question. But I still think it was worth noting that it was, let us say, the Radical Left, who, so to speak, got the tongue on the scales, which made there a majority, and then, of course, we are glad that it is a united Parliament that has backed this. That's all that matters. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153705	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153727	Thank you. We also support the bill in New Citizens. There are several of the previous rapporteurs who have described what it contains, including the most important part, which is this new form of investigation, the Review Commission, and we are very pleased that it is an opportunity that is now being manifested here in the legislation on the basis of the agreement we made before Christmas. We are also very much looking forward to the first committee of inquiry which is now in the pipeline and which will deal with the mink case, the mink valley, so that we can clarify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153806	Thank you to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party and can I ask the rapporteur just to prepare for the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance? Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309153835	Thank you. This bill is about introducing the possibility of so-called investigative commissions, which, contrary to the Commissions of Inquiry, have three major advantages. The Commissions of Inquiry are typically very expensive, the Commissions of Inquiry are typically very long-standing, and the Commissions of Inquiry have their anchor in the government apparatus. The Commission of the European Communities has an expectation that it will be possible to implement it at a cheaper, faster and anchored pace in the Folketing, and that is why we want to introduce this opportunity to examine the work of governments, which is, of course, necessary in a democracy. After all, the Folketing is the legislative body in Denmark, and so it is in a democracy like the Danish one. The government is the executive, and at regular intervals there may be a need for the Folketing to carry out a study on the government's way of managing the executive, with a view to either just becoming wiser or subsidiary or subsequently making an example, by drawing consequences for the government of what the study shows, and this is for the purpose we are here setting up the possibility of examining. It is, of course, currently bound up with the need to examine and possibly afterwards effect the consequences of the government's mink scandal, where, despite having a faulty professional ballast to it, it chose to kill an agricultural industry and to close it down before the Folketing had given its commitment to it, without having a legal basis to do so. This is the greatest scandal I can remember in Danish politics, it is far more than others that have been investigated by the courts and committees of inquiry, and I should be very surprised when we set up an investigation into this, whether that study does not reach the conclusion that this is an unprecedented scandal. And what we have the advantage of here is that we can now expect, within a year's time, a clarification of what was going on in the weeks when the government decided to kill the mink industry and the lack of a legal home to do so. Then we will also be able to do what we have done here in the Danish Parliament not so many weeks ago, when a commission of inquiry said that Mrs Inger Løjberg, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, had illegally administered where the Danish Parliament took the decision that an impeachment case would then have to be initiated. Similarly, the decisions taken by the Government's Coordination Committee with the Prime Minister at the head of the Minkskan Valley could result, after the examination, in the fact that the Folketing, if there is otherwise the same sense of justice, decides that an impeachment case should also be instituted against the Prime Minister in the Minkskan Valley. But of course this presupposes that the examination shows what we expect it to show, and that is what I expect, and that is also why I welcome the fact that Parliament now has this opportunity to launch a survey.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309154236	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and the next one to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309154238	Thank you for your comments. The Folketing has a number of tasks, and the most important ones are the two to control the government and make the regulation. And this is about strengthening Parliament's ability to carry out its control of the government. I am pleased that the rules laid down for the new investigative committees largely correspond to the rules applicable to investigating committees, including independence and the legal certainty of those involved. I also think it is a good thing that, with this regulation, the Folketing will have the opportunity to set up investigative committees, including, of course, to draw up the commission to be examined after appointing Members and to receive the report which will come out in the end. One of the things that is exciting and that it will be exciting to see the progress made is that work must be completed within 12 months, which has been one of the problems of committees of inquiry, i.e. the long period of time which everything else has just gone on to committees of inquiry. It takes considerable self-discipline for those who have to formulate the mandate to ensure that it succeeds. However, if we succeed in doing so, I believe that research commissions will be able to risk, in the best way possible, becoming an extremely relevant investigative instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309154421	There is a brief comment. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309154423	Thank you. I just need to ask the Justice Minister something. What we are doing here is, after all, a twin for the rules governing the law on investigative commissions, and that is to say the principles governing it. And one of the things described in the comments is that there is no intention or, in the opinion of the Minister for Justice, no new practice or interpretation or anything else. Something more has been written than the current law on investigative committees, and that makes sense, but this text does not contain an extension or restriction of any of the principles governing what a commission of inquiry should examine. That was the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309154502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309154503	What we have endeavoured to do in the drafting of the bill is to take exactly the report that has been made by the Folketing about this and implement it and, in relation to the elements that have not been mentioned, neither to add nor to subtract.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309154521	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309154546	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309154558	Thank you. These are, in fact, four proposals that are being dealt with under this paragraph, and although it may seem like minor and technical adjustments, I would nevertheless like to strike a blow for a few of these new measures. Persons from the Faroe Islands and from Greenland who are temporarily present in Denmark have access to unpaid emergency and continued hospital care. As the rules are today, people from Greenland and the Faroe Islands who are temporarily staying are only entitled to free emergency care, whereas they are therefore to be charged for what is called continued hospital treatment. If we adopt this bill, then we guarantee people from the Faroe Islands and Greenland the same access to emergency and continued hospital treatment during temporary stays in Denmark as residents have during temporary stays in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. It must be a healthy principle. I am also pleased that the draft law here provides for the possibility of inter-communal reimbursement in the case of social care, so that the system we established last year, with free dental care for socially vulnerable people, has to deal with one of the most visible examples of inequality in health, namely our dental health. But there is the chin of the present proposal that we should deal with in the municipality of residence, and that can therefore give rise to challenges for homeless people, but when it becomes possible for municipalities to make refunds, the homeless will be free to think about municipal boundaries. In other words, we focus on those for whom the whole law was intended. It is also a very sensible and good principle. With the proposal for inter-municipal reimbursement for expenditure on completed patients and patients who are hospitalised, we also ensure that the current payment scheme between municipalities is maintained. Finally, we update the territorial provisions of the Health Act on the Faroe Islands, so that it reflects the fact that the Faroe Islands have taken home some areas in the field of health. These are therefore four good, sensible and reasonable proposals which, of course, the Social Democrats can support. Finally, I also owe it to you to say that I have promised to greet the Radical Left, who was prevented from sending a rapporteur, and to say that they are therefore also supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309154820	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then both the mouthbands and the sprites are put on it is so fine; after all, it is the health rapporteurs who are present in the Chamber! Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309154842	Thank you. The bill we are discussing today is divided into four elements. The first part of the bill is about people from the Faroe Islands and Greenland having to have the same access to emergency and continued hospital treatment during temporary stays in Denmark as Danes have during temporary stays in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. In this part of the bill, we ensure that as uniform rules as possible are created in relation to access to hospital treatment for citizens of the Kingdom during temporary stays in the Kingdom Community. In the Left, we think it's positive that we have the same rules in this area. Persons from the Faroe Islands and Greenland during a temporary stay in Denmark should not be placed at a disadvantage compared to residents during a temporary stay in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Therefore, it is important that we ensure that Greenlanders and Faroese people no longer risk being affected by payment claims in connection with hospital treatment in Denmark. Today we are also discussing another element relating to the Kingdom community. The fourth part of the proposal ensures that the Danish and Faroese health legislation is brought into line. With the change, the Home Government of the Faroe Islands can lay down rules on the tasks, services and administration of health care. We in the Left believe this to be positive, as the Faroe Islands themselves must be given the opportunity to set the framework for their health care. The next two parts of the bill concern inter-municipal reimbursement. In this context, it is proposed that in future the region of residence or the State should send the bill for the costs of finished patients and patients hospitalised to the municipality of residence. Subsequently, the municipality of residence has the possibility of intercommunal reimbursement. That amendment is the result of the agreement on the reform of compensatory amounts, of which the Left is a part. We would therefore like to see this change implemented, as uniformity is being created in this area, and this does not change which municipality has the payment obligation. At the same time, the bill creates the legal basis for intercommunal reimbursement of social care costs for socially disadvantaged citizens when a municipality other than the municipality of residence offers dental care to the citizen. In the Left, we cherish freedom of choice, including when it comes to choice of dental care. Citizens must have the opportunity to choose where they want to go to dental care without having to worry about local boundaries. This also applies to our most vulnerable citizens. We therefore believe that it is important that it is not an obstacle for citizens to stay in a municipality other than the municipality of residence. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say hello. Edmund Joensen and the Samband Party. It welcomes the creation of uniform rules for the citizens of the Kingdom during a temporary stay in relation to access to hospital treatment in the Kingdom Community. The Sambands Party thus supports the bill. With these words, the Left also supports the bill as presented. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309155120	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309155140	Such a proposal is so marvellous when you come as number three, after the first two rapporteurs have examined all four things very carefully, so I do not need to do so. So I might be able to get to grips with some of the underlying issues, because in the Danish People's Party we were with • and I was rapporteur • when in 2019 we amended the Health Act for emergency and continued hospital care. This was due to the fact that in 2016 it had been estimated in the regions that it cost 428 million. kr. to treat foreign citizens in the Danish hospitals. It was therefore money that we could use ourselves in our health services, which both then and now had difficulty in prioritising funds. Therefore, the Danish People's Party made a proposal when we were negotiating finance law with the previous government, and we fully agreed with the government that we had to do something about this. There were some regions that were good at scraping the money in while others were not so good at it. This was a bill which meant that the regions could collect payments from people who temporarily resided in Denmark. But it has turned out that Greenland and the Faroe Islands were apparently forgotten. This was then brought to the attention that suddenly there was a provision that said that you should and cannot just charge for continued hospital treatment, which means that someone from Greenland and the Faroe Islands was caught. This is some of what this legislation is now correcting, plus some of the other things that the others have been talking about. But when we talk about what our health services are going into, I am quite sorry that I neither see the Enhedslisten nor the Radical Left, who yesterday thought that we should take citizens to the country to provide them with an abortion treatment that we would then have to pay. Because I would have liked to have asked the rapporteurs what we should do about other countries' women who cannot have an abortion in their country of origin. In other words, Malta bans abortion, and we know that there are countries like Spain and Portugal which only give abortion if it would otherwise affect the physical or mental state of women. And in relation to that offer, I think: Wow, where we should start treating a lot of citizens from other countries. It is a pity that those women cannot get the right that we other people have in Denmark, but it does not mean that we in Denmark should spend our citizens' hard-earned money on it; money that we give to our health care and that we could actually use more of to treat many others. So I'm glad we made the law back then. I hope that the regions will be better able to scrape the money together, and I am glad that we are now correcting it, so that Greenlanders and Faroe Islands can of course also be treated when they are staying in Denmark. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309155440	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309155457	Thank you. We in the SF are very happy that citizens from the Danish community will now again be able to be treated free of charge in a Danish hospital by both emergency and continued hospital treatment. It must of course be the case that people from the Faroe Islands and Greenland must have the same rights in relation to hospital treatment in Denmark as Danes have in the two countries. However, we also note that the consultation answers mention some well-known challenges in the field of law. For the collection of payments for foreign patients has allegedly led to a great deal of bureaucracy. It is a complex and very resource-intensive process to define which patients are to be charged for. This should be in line with the objective, and we must therefore be sure that the costs of increased bureaucracy and administration do not exceed the costs of ensuring that people are treated properly. Last but not least, I would also like to highlight the part of the draft law on inter-communal reimbursement for social care. As the Council of Social Affairs Ministers points out, in order for social care to be a success, it is essential that the target group can receive treatment where the most socially vulnerable citizens are staying. So summing up, SF is voting for the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309155614	Thank you. Then we will have to get drunk, and then I will take this opportunity to see who is present. The Enhedslisten is not present, Conservatives are not present, new citizens are not present, and the Liberal Alliance is not here either. We shall now proceed to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA, who is present and now has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309155640	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the government for the bill. Although the amendment of the law may seem small, for us in Greenland it is a very important legislative proposal which ensures access to continued free hospital treatment. So thank you to the government for prioritising this bill. We agree with the government on the need to align conditions in the Kingdom and ensure security for people from Greenland on a temporary stay in Denmark. The amendment of the Health Act in 2019 had the unintended consequence that people from Greenland and the Faroe Islands were placed at a disadvantage during temporary stays than Danish people on temporary stays in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The bill is therefore particularly important for the many visiting citizens from either the Faroe Islands or Greenland if they go to Denmark and become ill during their visit. As things stand today, they can end up with a bill for continued hospital care. It's a bill you wouldn't get if you were a Danish visitor to Greenland. As the Government notes, this was not the intention of the Health Act in 2019. I would say that this is not the first time that Greenland and the Faroe Islands have been forgotten, unfortunately. This amendment also ensures that all citizens of the Kingdom have the same access to unpaid emergency and continued hospital care during a temporary stay. The change is very positive to Inuit Ataqatigiit. We would also like to say in a small word that we are very pleased with the cooperation between Greenland and Denmark in the current covid-19 situation. It creates a great deal of security in Greenland that you can work together on both vaccines and hospital sites if you need them, or else. So we're really happy about that. We would like to ask the Committee on Health to take the Greenland Committee and the Faroes Committee to the board when the draft law is being discussed in committee. Without further comments, I would like to thank you for the draft law that we support. Qujanaq, thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309155849	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then no more of the rapporteurs who are here have asked for the floor, even in the second round, and that is why we are going to go to the Minister for Health. Here you go, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309155912	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for the comments made by Parliament's parties and the positive reception given to this bill. I am really pleased that so many people can support this bill. This is simply important not only for the entire Folketing, but also for the Danes, the Faroese and Greenlanders who are doing what we call for, namely interacting with each other and visiting each other's countries in different ways, that they have equal access to and equal conditions for emergency hospital treatment and what is in the bill is called continued hospital treatment, throughout our Kingdom community. People from the Faroe Islands and Greenland today have access to unpaid emergency hospital treatment, and with this bill it is ensured that they also have free access to continued hospital care. The treatment is typically provided as a follow-up to the emergency hospital treatment. People from the Faroe Islands and Greenland will thus have the same access to hospital treatment during temporary stays in Denmark as residents during temporary stays in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. So it is equality, you might say, which we are also introducing there. The municipality of residence shall bear the costs associated with the provision of social duck care. This has proved to be a challenge, because the target group for social care is, of course, the most socially vulnerable citizens, including, of course, the homeless. And we know that they often move between municipalities. In order for social care to function as intended, it is important that socially vulnerable citizens can receive treatment where they are staying. The bill provides for the possibility for a municipality other than the municipality of residence to be reimbursed from the municipality of residence if this social assistance is provided. As you know, as a result of the compensatory reform, information on the municipalities of payment has been abolished in the compensation system itself, so that it is no longer a requirement for the municipality of payment to be registered in the CPR. The residence region or state will therefore forward the bill for the costs of completed patients and patients hospitalised to the municipality of residence. The bill gives the municipality of residence the right to inter-municipal reimbursement. This means that the municipality which has the obligation to ensure an offer to the completed patient who remains in a hospital is also the municipality which pays for the patient's continued hospital stay. Finally, the draft law proposes to update the territorial provision of the Health Act for the Faroe Islands. In practice, the proposed changes do not alter the legal situation. They shall ensure consistency between the Danish and Faroese health legislation. So with those words of thanks to the Danish Parliament for its support. I look forward to the committee reading in the committees that are now going to interfere and get involved in this work, and I will, of course, be available to answer all the questions and elaborate on the individual elements of the legislative proposal that may be needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309160220	Then we'll thank the Minister for Health. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210309160235	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 10 March 2021, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
