ParlaMint-DK_20210114100002	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries (Rasmus Prehn): Bill no. L 138 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Field and Road Peace) The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100022	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course. Then we have to get on with the agenda itself, and I would like to say to the rapporteurs once again that when you have been on the platform, you have to scrub after yourself so that we are as corona-proof as possible and that, if there is a need to talk, you are leaving the Parliamentary Chamber so that there can be sufficient distance between the speakers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100039	The debate is open. Here you go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100123	Thank you very much, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution on Taiwan and the WHO. Thank you for raising the debate. Let me start by saying briefly and quite clearly: the government is already supporting and working for Taiwan to participate as an observer in the World Health Assembly. I made that clear last year, and I did so both to the Folketing and to the press. And this is a line that the government maintains. I am of the very clear opinion that the world has an interest in Taiwan's participation in the work of the WHO. After all, the current covid-19 pandemic has also made clear the need for effective multilateral health cooperation with the WHO at the forefront. Taiwan formally has a technical cooperation with the WHO, but unlike several previous years, Taiwan has not had observer status in the World Health Assembly since 2016. The government believes that this should be changed. Taiwan should therefore again be given the opportunity to be an observer at the annual World Health Assembly. A large number of other countries think so too, and therefore there is increasing international attention to it and support for it. That is why the government is working for Taiwan to be able to participate as an observer at the WHO's annual World Health Assembly. This is a goal that we are working for in the diplomatic path. At the same time, Taiwan should continue to be able to cooperate at technical level within the framework of the WHO. That is my clear position, and I have it, among other things. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Having said that, it is also important to make it clear that Denmark is pursuing a firm and clear etkina policy. We do so on the basis of a very broad understanding among the parties of the Folketing, which is reflected in proposals for adoption V 70. And like other EU countries and the UN, Denmark does not recognise Taiwan as an independent state. It goes without saying, therefore, that Taiwan's cooperation with the WHO must of course take place within the framework of the etkina policy. That is why I have also made it very clear that both Taiwan and China should contribute to a pragmatic solution. Given the very serious situation we are in at the moment, I would like to call for all parties to cooperate constructively on Taiwan's cooperation with the WHO and for the international diplomatic situation not to be further politicised. In plain English: The more international public attention is being paid to this issue, the less is the possibility of pragmatic diplomatic solutions that are so badly needed. As the level of conflict increases, the probability of results decreases. That is the reality of the iron industry in diplomacy. Of course, the Taipei authorities are also aware of this dynamic, and it is now the case that the practical solutions we are seeking are best found without politicising Taiwan's formal status. I would therefore like to conclude by briefly reflecting on Taiwan and the dilemmas inherent in many aspects. I fully understand and share the support of many for the well-functioning democracy that currently exists in Taiwan. It is recognizable for us Danes, and we fully respect both the culture and the social design chosen in Taiwan. At the same time, we are engaged in active and important trade and investment cooperation and cultural exchanges with Taiwan. There is satisfaction with this among both sides. The global health crisis does not change the fact that Denmark has a fundamental approach, and I would like to warn against a Danish approach that creates doubts about Denmark's ethina policy. Our approach must be driven by Denmark's long-term interests and, of course, by clear values. We must act wisely. This also applies to Taiwan. It is therefore crucial that we continue the tradition of broad agreement between the parties of the Folketing on the direction of Denmark's approach to China, which also applies to Taiwan. I also sense that there is a broad and fundamental consensus on both the Danish etkina policy and that Taiwan should of course rejoin the WHA as an observer. At the same time, it is also clear that this is something that Denmark is already working for. I do not think that is reflected either fairly or fairly in the text we see here in the motion for a resolution. I think you'll agree with that when you read this in more detail. I would therefore urge that we maintain the strong, broad, constructive and sensible collection of parties in the Folketing on a text which is both fair, unifying and secure for the future and which does this matter a good service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100639	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100642	Yes, thank you for that, Foreign Minister, and first of all also thank you for your support for the position that has now been put forward by a majority in this resolution, in relation to Taiwan being included in the WHA. I think we all agree that this is the right thing to do, and now it is just about making sure that that happens. After all, there are different approaches to what we also mention in the resolution. via the EU. However, as the Foreign Minister also knows very well, it is difficult to get the whole EU community involved in such a strategy based on historical and economic ties with China for certain Member States, etc. So what we also mention is that there is a coalition of both EU countries and non-EU countries • a broad consensus that Denmark joins the one that then goes in and says that in the light of among other things. The pandemic is wrong that over 20 million people are not under this health umbrella as they have been in the past. Can the Minister not see that there is also a need for other approaches than just an EU approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100743	I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen and the Left and the proposers of their support for the government's line, in relation to the fact that we are working to get Taiwan back to the World Health Assembly (WHA). I am delighted when the rapporteur from the Left thanks the government but, as I have made clear in my remarks, it has been Denmark's position for a long time and I explained it, among other things. in an answer to a question from August last year. But let's just thank each other that way. I think the important thing is the substance of the matter. And yes, we have a global health crisis that has illustrated the importance of cooperation in the WHO. We both agree on that. I would like to say that I take the view in principle that, regardless of how Taiwan manages to combat covid, it is in principle my view that they should be included in the WHA. I mean, it's not crucial how Taiwan treats it here in terms of health, because that's a fundamental point of view. And I hope the Left shares that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100843	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100845	Yes, and unfortunately that was not an answer to my question, sir. Minister. So that thank you can get a little out of hand so you don't answer what I'm asking. But I'm always happy to get thanks, so of course thank you for that. But then back to what I actually asked, namely whether the minister and thus the government cannot see that this should not only be an EU track but also a track outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100919	Yes, and there's what I think we should remember how together we work most effectively here in the Folketing. We have the foreign policy name, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, by the way, is Vice-President and I was previously chairman of it when I was a member of the Folketing. And here we coordinate and consult with regard to our diplomatic efforts and with regard to the views on which we are, by the way, agreed. And that is why I would like to say, also for the sake of the important role of the jury in our people's government and democracy, that this is where we take the debate on how we do this most effectively, also in relation to other countries and what they have of positions. This is one of the issues of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100952	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114100954	Thank you, Minister. This, I think, is less a question of whether we are in favour of etkina policy, but in fact more of a question of how it is enforced by China. That's what's so terrible, that this is a country that you can't discuss and where each comma is examined and each sentence is reversed, depending on how they look at it. We are actually now, when we sit and have this review, a little nervous about how they might react. That is, of course, the problem: who we are talking to can decide all our trade with China and can also mean whether we are being put on ice commercially and whether we are being harassed, as usual. After all, all these things are the reason why we are discussing a completely normal proposal. Of course, a country of 25 million people who really care about health should be included in this. But it is a question of what China is doing, and that is what is so terrible. We sit here and we are all extremely nervous about whether or not we get it right, so that we do not get to bother anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101105	I think that was more of a comment from Mr. Søren Espersen. I would just like to repeat that whatever Taiwan does well in the fight against covid, and they do, and in many ways they have a well-functioning health system, we also know that there are many things that they are capable of doing so, it is my view in principle that they should have access to WHA and have observer status there. It is independent of how to deal with health crises, and I think that is something we should work together on. Let us take the discussion in the Foreign Policy Name, where I think the right one belongs, and where we also have the right nuances and opportunities to go into detail on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101148	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101149	Yes, the first was a comment; that is correct. But then I would like to rephrase it to a question: is the government a little bit nervous about how China will view what we are doing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101200	No, well, we're not. It is important that we in the Danish Parliament agree on this, and I am pleased to work for Taiwan to have observer status in the WHA; that they can cooperate on the important issues and technical issues that are being dealt with in the WHO, not least in a time of pandemic; and that we have a etkina policy We agree on this in broad terms in the Danish Parliament, and I think that is the wise thing and also what serves the matter best.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101235	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that is why it is now Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democrat Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101301	Thank you. It is a little bit special to have to tell us what the Social Democratic Party stands for right after a Social Democratic minister has been involved, because it is in the social democracy that we do not have two different foreign policies. That is why what I have to say is much the same as what the Minister has said. Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this. As the Foreign Minister has said, there is absolutely no doubt about where the Social Democracy stands. We want Taiwan to re-enter the WHA as an observer, and we support and are already working to ensure that Taiwan can participate as an observer at the World Health Organization's annual World Health Assembly. Both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Health said so in 2020, both in response to committee questions and in the press. Global cooperation on health in the World Health Organization has only become even more important, as the Minister also said, during the current covid-19 pandemic. We also know that Taiwan has done very well, so it is also very good to get some of that information. The world is interested in how Taiwan participates in the work of the WHO against this background. At this stage Taiwan has formally been working with the WHO for technical purposes, but has not had observer status in the World Health Assembly since 2016, and we want and work for this already. That is why we are working for Taiwan to be able to participate again as an observer in the WHA, and we are already doing so, and we are already working on the diplomatic trail. It should be stressed that Denmark is pursuing a clear etkina policy. I know that we are very much in agreement with a broad consensus here in the Danish Parliament, and that is why Taiwan's cooperation must take place in this context, in other words in relation to the framework of the etkina policy. Both China and Taiwan should both contribute pragmatic solutions in this regard. I think that the Danish parliament basically agrees with the Danish etkina policy. If you are not, then I would like to hear it today, and then it will probably be today's second-largest news. But otherwise Taiwan will be re-entering the WHA as an observer if it is the case that Denmark can decide. Let us take it back in committee. I'm not at all sure we're having such a disagreement about this. There are two words in this text that we disagree with. It says: The government is required to impose on someone who does something in advance may not be quite right. And then they say: this is not the country it is an independent country, which is why I would like us to take it back in committee and then we will come up with a text in this context. We have had very, very broad endorsements in this area in the past, and I think we should continue to have that. I think it is a pity if we draw a false picture of the disagreement that actually does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101623	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101626	Thank you. Then I am glad that the Socialist Foreign Affairs rapporteur supports the Foreign Minister in thanking us proposers of this specific proposal. It is wonderful, and it is good that we seem to be kicking in an open door, because then we will expect an entire Parliament to vote in favour of the resolution. That's nice. That's how I like to make politics, so when everyone agrees, it's really good. However, what I was trying to ask the Foreign Minister in concrete terms, but which I did not really get an answer to was not really an answer at all, was that what is also in relation to the diplomatic trail is whether you only focus your efforts in the European Union or whether you want to do it outside the European Union. And there is this coalition of countries, both EU countries and non-EU countries, that has come together to say that we simply have to draw a line in the sand and say that it is, of course, absurd that an area with over 20 million inhabitants is not a member of the WHO as an observer, like for example. Palestine is. Does the Socialist Foreign Minister share the view that the coalition is important to join?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101735	First of all, we do not support the resolution with the text that lies. But there is no disagreement about it in the Folketing, as I understand it. We would like to have a word on it; we would like to have it discussed in committee, and there I am 100% sure we will agree completely. Then it is also the case that the Minister said that the diplomatic trail is in full swing, and we are working together on the diplomatic trail in the name. So we're gonna take it in the Name... that's where both of you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen and I are sitting, and that's where we're discussing this forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101813	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101815	Okay, so it's obviously the Socialist view that you can't get an answer to that question. That's fair enough. I have to take note of that and then we will have to discuss it in the foreign policy name. Then I hope we can get some answers there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101830	Well, just like both sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen and I know that this is where we can discuss these difficult matters under better circumstances, and we do so in the name of the diplomatic trail. So, yeah, I guess so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101846	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101848	Well, I'm a little confused, and I really just want to clarify whether the Social Democratic Party is in favour of this. And if you don't, what kind of sentence is that? What kind of words do you want to put in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101902	But the Social Democrats are not voting for the resolution as it stands. But I would like us to take it back to committee, just as we always do. This is technique. A great many times we have questions and then we find out a text for adoption. In this case, it is a motion for a resolution, and then you can take it back in committee, and then you can find out if you want to make a report... you can do a lot of different things... if you can agree on the text. That is what I am calling for us to do, because I think it is wrong to paint a picture of our disagreements. As the Minister said, the disagreement is of no benefit to anyone and certainly not to Taiwan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101939	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101940	But what is it that needs to be added to the text for the Social Democrats to vote in favour of this? What is the wording, what is the small sentence or perhaps just a word to be included?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114101952	It is more likely that two words should be taken out. You have to take the floor, because we agree on a policy of etkina. Taiwan is not a country, so we have problems with the words: "This is how the country has a population of just over 25 million. citizens...................................................................................... I also assume that the Danish People's Party is in favour of us having a policy of etkina on which we agree. The second is that the government is required to work for it, but that is something that is already being done. After all, you cannot impose something on someone when they are already doing it and have done it for a long time, and who has replied that you are actually doing it, on questions asked in 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102029	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are now getting the alcohol off. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102059	Thank you. Taiwan knows that many of us are in many ways a fantastic country with a people who are generally well-functioning, decent, capable, democracy-loving, freedom-loving, innovative and progressive. And when it comes to health, the country is second to none. It is clear that all this must and must be a thorn in the eye of a Communist dictatorship, and for this reason, from Peking, it has been decided to harass Taiwan as much as possible, in every conceivable area and in every conceivable way. Sometimes it happens openly with the big ugly Communist hammer, sometimes more sophisticated and crafty, but always just vulgar and chauvinistic. The examples of this are many, and we who are here know them, so I shall not make much of it, but just gladly note that I feel that the wind is changing. In recent years, more and more countries are asking why they still have to let themselves be driven around the chain of communists; something that no one at that time with the Soviet Union would have dreamed of for a second. At that time the free states of the West stood up as a matter of course against the Marxist thunder of the Kremlin. Those Soviets were never allowed to decide what we in the free world thought, thought and did. By the way, the Soviet Union was not nearly as bad as China today, because even during the Cold War it would have been unthinkable for the Soviets to mix trade with major politics. Thus, during that period there were very few and small stops to trade. It continued happily over the Iron Curtain, no matter how much the Soviets scolded us, and no matter how much we scolded them. Today, Denmark just needs to serve organic coffee to an aging gentleman from Tibet so the hell is loose in Laksegade. So we know it all, but we are still so shocked when it became clear, in connection with the covid-19, that Communist China even here in the midst of the terrible pandemic in which the WHO and all the countries of the world so admired Taiwan because of the country's impressive fight against the virus was just indifferent to the health of the world and ordered the World Health Organization that nothing should be done about Taiwan. China banned the WHO from asking Taiwan how, with a population of 25 million, only nearly 600 infected and less than 10 dead. China banned the world from learning from Taiwan's epidemic preparedness for future epidemics. Taiwan was not even allowed observer status in the WHA. The Communist regime had already ordered this a few years ago. I think it was in 2016 and the rest of us said yes. The most important question the Minister now has to answer and will be stopped, I think, in this debate is: does Denmark say in this matter, where world health is concerned, just obediently yes to China's demands? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102408	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. There are no brief comments. So we're just gonna get the booze off. And then it's sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102441	Thank you very much, President. And thank the Foreign Minister for some very clear statements that the Danish Government will continue to work to ensure that Taiwan can contribute to the work of the WHA. We are super happy for that from the radical side. I also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he says that both when it comes to Corona policy and China policy, we are well aware of having a broad majority behind us in the Folketing, and let me just say straight away that we think it is a good idea to try to find a common text of the report which can show unity in the Folketing. We also have a good tradition of having finer discussions about how Denmark can best promote it here on the international stage, with which partners and in which forums, in the Foreign Policy Name, and we are also fully committed to that. We also have a good tradition that the parties in the Folketing are holding the government to the fire and also to show the outside world that this is something that concerns us and it is against this background that the Radical Left has supported the proposal here. We believe that this is an important issue, not because we want to put an end to etkina policy, or because we want a significant new direction, but because, on the other hand, we do not think it is useful that such rather symbolic foreign policy considerations should stand in the way of the best possible action in the field of health in the WHA, and we think that signal is important to send out also in support of the government's work out there, and that is why we thought it important to have this resolution tabled and to have the discussion in the Parliamentary Assembly. So our approach will be that we can hopefully bring the whole Parliament together, it sounds like that for the time being at least around a report; that we take that discussion in committee; and that we can then take the finer discussion of exactly where and how and with whom when we have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102648	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102651	Many thanks also to the Radicals for bringing the Folketing together. I think it is extremely important and I also said this in my rapporteur's speech that we have a broad support for these things. Just as we had very, very broad support for the adoption text on Hong Kong, I think it is extremely important here. So this is just an indication that the Social Democratic Party would like to be part of that work. So, thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102716	You're welcome. After all, we are very fond of meeting in the middle on the important issues, and we are very happy to do so in this matter, and I can hear that others do too. That is why you can still have different starting points, but it is important in foreign policy to meet in the middle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102730	We say thank you, and when it's spritted off, it's sir. Karsten Hønge from SF. Thank you. Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102745	Of course, the fact that the SF supports the so-called etkina policy does not prevent us from having reasonable relations with Taiwan at the same time. Keeping up to 25 million inhabitants out of the WHA makes no sense. Few diseases, and certainly not corona, comply with national boundaries. Therefore, SF supports Taiwan's return to WHA. In order to achieve that result, Denmark must then seek allies internationally, and it would help if we were united in the Folketing. Then we can find a text that brings together even more parties, I think that would be very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102849	There are no brief comments, so after despriting it is Mr. Christian Juhl, I understand, from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114102907	Thank you. I'd like to recommend to you, sir. Karsten Hønge to be admitted to the Houseworker Federation. That is what today is called the FOA. It's professional craftsmanship, sir. Karsten Hønge makes when he dries up here. As far as Taiwan is concerned, I should first think about why we should spend time in the Folketing. I suppose there is a clear policy on the part of our government. It is always good to get self-confirmation by taking a proposal in the Chamber and then getting confirmation that everyone supports it, but it is important to take the debate and also reverse the arguments for it. I do not think we should start making a big deal about whether it should be mentioned or whether it should be in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It's up to higher powers to decide. The most important thing is that we get it marked with a clear text. We are in the midst of a global pandemic where international cooperation and knowledge sharing are needed, especially on health-care issues for which the WHO is the platform. The WHO has, of course, been under attack by several sides, unfortunately also by the United States. That is why Enhedslisten also supports the resuming of Taiwan as an observer in the WHA and thus as an active player in the WHO. We do this because we attach great importance to cooperation, involvement and democratic principles. It is problematic that Taiwan has been excluded from international health cooperation during covid-19, for example from important meetings and expert consultations. It has not been dealt with satisfactorily and exhibits how major policy can stand in the way of essential international cooperation. Of course, we must benefit from Taiwan's positive experience in combating covid-19, but that cannot be the central argument. For us, it is about ensuring that as many citizens as possible and peoples are represented and involved in international health work. We should not be entitled to participate and be an observer. Access to health cooperation should be a democratic right. Under Trump, the United States has apparently upgraded their Taiwanese strategy as part of drawing up further the fronts to China. The United States now officially refers to an American-Taiwanese partnership and in January has lifted a number of diplomatic restrictions and sent its UN ambassador to the island. We should not become de facto supporters of that. Just as major policy cannot simply stand in the way of strengthening our response to the covid-19 crisis, nor must we use the health crisis as an opportunity to take major foreign policy decisions which require careful consideration and discussion in principle. Of course, it should not be American global interests that dictate development, but the democratic principles of the Taiwanese people. Perhaps it is also not in Taiwan's interest to become hostage to a great political power game, even if Taiwan wanted independence. Although Denmark does not recognise Taiwan as an independent state, this does not mean that a etkina policy is a definitive historical doctrine. We are very, very high on the part of the Enhedslisten, the right of self-determination. We should not allow our position in relation to Taiwan to be governed by the emerging bipolar world order, where politics is determined by American and Chinese interests and power policy. That said, of course, it should not be China that decides whether Taiwan and Taiwan's people should be part of international health cooperation. So when China, as expected, does not ensure that involvement, we must, of course, push for it. As in the case of Hong Kong, we should not allow ourselves to be intimidated by China. Denmark's voice alone probably does not, and that is why alliances are important, and that is why we must try to build those alliances so that it does not just become a sign from a parliament in a small country up north. Speaking of international cooperation and solidarity, we also hope that the proposal today means that the concern about non-involvement, etc. will also propagate to other hotspots of the world, especially the world's poorest countries, which are fighting against the pandemic under difficult conditions, and which currently do not have the resources at all to secure vaccine for everyone, among other things. because rich countries such as the United States and Denmark do not support enough when we need to secure vaccines for those countries. So in that light, there are also good opportunities in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114103342	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no brief comments. And after despriting, we can go to mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114103404	Thank you. As stated in the comments on the motion for a resolution on which we are co-sponsors, pandemics are not familiar with national borders or large-scale politics. The whole world is suffering from the pandemic that we are currently fighting against. That is why we must also stand together and learn from each other's experiences, particularly from those countries that are doing well. An example of a country that has done well is Taiwan. This is due to the epidemic preparedness that the country has had since Sars hit Taiwan. There they have some very good experiences and therefore there are professional reasons why Taiwan should sit at the table. It has to be said that Taiwan has been much more open about covid-19 than China. China has, unfortunately, succeeded in exercising its power policy for far too long, with the result that the WHO failed to criticise China for the way they handled the corona outbreak. China has hidden figures of infected and dead, and it took a long time for the outside world to find out how extensive the infection was. It should have been insisted that the Chinese presented everything. The WHO tried to get into China for a long time and investigate things. It only happened here recently, unfortunately. There are no professional or factual reasons why Denmark should dance after China's pipe. Several of our allies have already announced that they want Taiwan to have observer status at future WHA meetings. It would suit Denmark to join the circle of countries, which among other things. count the United States, Germany and France... all countries that are our close allies. That is why it is important that we not only do it within the European Union, because there are some countries, unfortunately, within the European Union that are in the pocket of China. It is extremely important that we ally ourselves with the other countries, which also insist that Taiwan should have observer status. Having said that, however, I am in favour of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has shown gratitude to this wish, and that is why it is now all about implementing it. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114103654	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114103657	I always think it's nice when the bourgeois people are in opposition... such, of course, as a matter of principle. It is quite interesting that they also always sharpen their foreign policy when they are in opposition, instead of doing so when they are in government where they have the opportunity to do something. - Sir... Doesn't Khader tell me a little bit about the fact that you shouldn't dance after China's pipe? Well, why do we have pandas in the zoo? Why, when there is a bourgeois government, should we take professional considerations in one situation or another when it comes to China? The rhetoric is good enough today, of course, but I think that one should also try to be a little self-critical and calm the rhetoric a little, because they are not so solid in the flesh that they are bourgeois towards China at the end of the day, and when it comes to for example. Economics and Businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114103747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114103749	I don't feel hit. I believe I have said the same thing over the past many years in relation to China; read the many pieces I have written about it. This is particularly true after China has changed course. Well, at first China focused on growth and on getting people out of poverty, but in recent years they have got great power ambitions and become aggressive. That is why the criticism has been aggravated in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114103818	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114103820	But I remember that the Conservatives certainly supported the former bourgeois government, both the much earlier and the latest bourgeois government, in its policy, including in this area. All I'm saying is, there's a lot of thought being taken into account. After all, it is not just a question of China's rhetoric or its desire to be a great power. China is de facto a major power, which we have to take a position on. It is on the map, it plays an immensely important role and it has taken over very, very large parts of global production. Therefore, it takes a great deal of effort to move the mastodon at the moment. That means rhetoric doesn't do it alone. You can also start small and say no to pandas, and you can start small and say no to, for example. to dictate its business policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114103906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114103908	I don't really care about pandas. I've seen them, and they're not that exciting to watch. That is not what matters. What is crucial is that we are aware that the Chinese, at least in recent years, have also shown global military ambitions; that they are very much on the offensive and very aggressive. That is why it is important that we, the democracies, stick together, stand together and challenge the Chinese. Otherwise, our children and grandchildren will have trouble with them in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114103943	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we are actually drinking off. Thank you, Naser Khader. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114104010	Taiwan has successfully stemed the spread of covid without resorting to draconian measures such as: the decommissioning of society. Taiwan has been widely praised for its rapid decisions and the handling of its epidemic. The epidemic has been contained, and the country has had few deaths. The measures have focused on reducing incoming flights from China and subjecting travellers to quarantine early. Experts say that was the key at first to stopping the spread in society. Subsequently, surveillance measures have been followed up on them in quarantine, focused on tests of people suspected of having coronavirus, good contact tracing and social distance. Taiwanese health experts and authorities have also ensured a rapid flow of information and shared best practice. However, despite its efforts, the country is still effectively locked out of the good company of the World Health Organization because of its complex relationship with China. This means that Taiwan has been excluded from emergency meetings and important global expert briefings on the corona virus pandemic. This also means that the WHO lists Taiwan's coronavirus statistics together with China's. The outside world does not therefore receive accurate and timely information about the successful pandemic campaign in Taiwan. The WHO is for me to see an important forum for Taiwan. Taiwan's exclusion from a global body such as the WHO due to regional major political tensions is therefore a problem not only for Taiwan but also for the rest of the world during this epidemic. It's not fair. Taiwan as a role model should not be excluded from the WHO or the WHA, and certainly not at a time when global cooperation is more than ever needed to curb the covid-19 infection. WHO and China must recognise that epidemics do not have national boundaries. Therefore, no countries or regions successfully combating covid-19 should be left out of important health-promoting forums. Let all those who can contribute to the world's common struggle against the pandemic. Taiwan should have access to WHO information and share their covid-19 experience with WHO members. Taiwan must be free to share their expertise through all WHO communication channels. Taiwan must be able to communicate effectively and be heard as clearly as a member would be. New citizens therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114104239	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Let's have a drink, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. Peter Seier Christensen I don't think anyone's remembered it's there?). Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114104306	Thank you for the floor and thank you for a good debate. I shall do it fairly quickly, because many of the things I would have liked to say if I had been the first rapporteur up here have already been said. We are pleased, as we were in the debate on Hong Kong, that on the one hand the Folketing can gather widely to mean something about China and, on the other hand, it does not have to be completely toothless. When there is a need for clear criticism of China and when it is reasonable, this criticism should be made, one of the best countries in the world to deal with covid-19 is Taiwan, and I have actually taken a very serious interest in this, because apart from being the Foreign Affairs rapporteur, I am also the health rapporteur. And I can guarantee the high thing that knowledge sharing from Taiwan would have been a really, really good thing to have. Here in Europe, it is countries like Norway and Finland that show best practice, but worldwide it is Taiwan and South Korea. Epidemic control of that quality is not necessarily possible, because they have, for example, one of them. Not the same rules for personal data protection as we do, but there are still many things that could have been learned. This cannot be done because China needs to make some symbolic political markings in relation to Taiwan instead of finding some pragmatic solutions. Taiwan should therefore, of course, re-enter the World Health Assembly, so that the world can benefit from the high standard of epidemic control that one has, and so that it may also be possible to take some steps towards finding better solutions when some better politicians arrive in many years' time. I remember that in relation to the Spratly Islands Deng Xiaoping, I think it was thought that one day there would probably come some politicians who were better than those who lived at that time, and then perhaps we could solve the problems in some ways that no politician who lived at that time had had the ability to devise. It may also be that in 100 years' time, even though it is difficult to imagine that some politicians will come even better than we have today, and it may in fact be that these problems can be resolved in some way if the positions are not drawn so sharply in the meantime that a retreat is impossible. None of us are told, but hope is bright green. In any case, I would like to thank you for a very good debate on an important subject and for the broad support for our resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114104612	There are no brief comments, so after despriting it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114104635	Thank you. I fully share what Mr. Henrik Dahl just said, thank you very much for the very, very good debate. I also think it is very positive that in fact all parties agree with the spirit and clear position of the resolution, namely that Taiwan should of course be a member of the WHA as an observer, so that we can come back to what the reality was before 2016, when China succeeded in getting Taiwan thrown out with their increasingly aggressive foreign policy. And it is true, of course, that it must always be so, whether there is a pandemic or not, but the problem is that in the light of the worldwide pandemic we have now, it has become even more obvious to anyone, how absurd it is that China can have this right of veto in relation to an area where there are more than 25 million people, and especially in view of the fact that we have actually experienced a China which has actually opposed the fight against covid-19. We have experienced how and how they didn't even open up to observers, to experts and the like at the beginning of this process; unlike Taiwan, which actually had some really, really good experience in fighting covid-19, which they just couldn't really share. They certainly couldn't take that political discussion in the WHA. That is why, yes, of course, whether there is a pandemic or not, an area such as Taiwan should be a member, but in the light of the pandemic, it is not just a decision in principle whether to join or not. So it is also something that can cost lives, whether they are in or not. When you look at whether or not this has an impact on the policy of etkina, I would just like to make it absolutely clear if there is a single one somewhere in the Social Democratic Party which is in doubt as to where the broad majority of the Folketing is in this matter, it is of course that we support the policy of etkina, and that is not at all in conflict with this proposal. For what is it like in relation to an area like Palestine? Nor is Palestine supported by a majority here in the Folketing, that is, that they should be recognised as a country. Nor does the Left support the recognition of Palestine as a country. But they're in the WHA as an observer. We do not have much debate on this, or Israel who comes in and says that it is not going to work, etc. No, because that's just the way it is. There it is easy to see the sense that when we talk about health, it is of course essential that a large part of the world is involved in that cooperation. I must admit that now that I have sent back and forth my thanks to the government, I am a little sad that we cannot just say that, of course, everyone will vote in favour of this proposal as it stands. Of course, we all support the etkina policy. This proposal does not change anything, nor does it say anything about it in the motion for a resolution that we should change, but yet we are going to say: Ah, should we not just, etc. But I have heard that you have to be optimistic by nature, so I try to be, and positive, not least in the light of a day like today. That is why, of course, I would like to share the view that we should try to see whether we can bring the whole Parliament together on the motion for a resolution, and if that includes discussing amendments, then we on the Left are also ready for it. I think it is quite appropriate to see whether we can agree, and we clearly want to do so. Whether that would mean that we would put in a sentence such that we would, for example, put in a sentence saying that we would have to do something like this. We are, of course, also prepared to discuss this in support of the etkina policy. And whether it be in the Foreign Affairs Committee, or wherever it should be, we come up and take that discussion, because of course the most important objective is that Taiwan joins the WHA as quickly as possible, and that we use all diplomatic tools for that; that is, both within the European Union and outside the European Union, in relation to the coalition that is being built up now, and where, of course, I see it quite natural that Denmark is also involved. It will both protect us, but it will also ensure that we send out a clear signal that we are on the right side. Let me say this: it is probably polemical, but it is not even meant as such: if you really want to conduct an activist foreign policy, you also have to make some decisions that not everyone in the world can agree to if you feel you are on the right side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105145	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105147	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We have just heard that the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned that what was the real problem was that Taiwan was described as a country or as the country. What word could you use instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105213	You could use the area if you wanted. You could just write Taiwan without defining what Taiwan is. And if it leads the Social Democrats to endorse the proposal, we are absolutely willing to do so by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105228	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105230	Well, it's not even certain that the Chinese will accept it... [Sound Falls]... problems with the name Taiwan. So it's kind of hard. But what about the island? Well, it's undoubtedly an island, or is it something bigger? I don't really know. I can't assess it. But I think it is one of these very important things that we need to clarify in the foreign policy mention. And I am delighted, because then I myself will try to find some words that can be used so that everyone will be happy, including the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105258	I would also very much like to make everyone happy, not least when it comes to getting Taiwan into the WHA as quickly as possible. So I am also ready for the apparently inventive debate we shall have in the Foreign Policy Name. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105311	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105313	Thank you. I am not going to interfere very much with the academic debate that the two rapporteurs have just had. It is, of course, an area of self-government and, as such, it is also an area of self-government, because the most important thing in this context is also Taiwan's democratic rights, I think. Not only that they can contribute something good to us; we can also contribute something sensible to their democracy. I did not quite understand the connection with Palestine, because there is the Left and, for that matter, the Socialist Government, a little on the stomach of Israel and the United States, which are the only two countries to block the possibility of a democratic solution to the Palestine issue. What was it for in this context? I think it would be quite appropriate and directly in line with what we are deciding today that we also recognise Palestine as an independent country, because it may be one of the few steps that can push for a real solution in that area. Everyone's talking about wanting to solve the problem, but nobody's acting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105414	Well, I'm always happy to have a Palestine debate. That is not quite what we are discussing today. But what was why I mentioned Palestine was that like Palestine is not recognised as a country by a long, long number of countries, including Denmark, they are still in WHA as an observer. And that is why we in the Left believe that Taiwan can then also, even if they are not recognised as a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105435	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105436	After all, it was the rapporteur himself who brought Palestine to the fore. And I mean, is Greenland a country? It is certainly not an independent country. Are the Faroe Islands a country? It is not an independent country, but it is certainly largely a country, and I call it a country, and I call the Kingdom Community three countries. And that way you can get a long way from talking about it. And there I think that Western Sahara and Palestine are two sore toes that both the Left and the Socialists will soon have to learn to take seriously and to start acting on and not just say that we have to talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105509	So, I have to admit that much can be said about Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but to compare it with Palestine might just be to draw a line too much. I believe that most people in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands would not be able to describe it as having the same status as Palestine. But we are also happy to take that debate, but I do not think it is today either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105528	There are no more brief comments, so after a despriting we take a second round because the Minister for Foreign Affairs has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114105551	Thank you and thank you for the debate, which gives me the opportunity to make a few comments on it. After all, it is a little interesting that we are debating something where there seems to be no disagreement throughout the Danish Parliament, and the government and I, as Foreign Minister, are pleased, of course, that there is support for what is the government's view. Some people will then ask: when you are making a motion for a resolution which will oblige the government to work for Taiwan to become an observer again in the WHA, then a motion for a resolution which will impose something on the government, then you should check what the government is already working for and thinks. And I think it was sir. Naser Khader, draftsman of the opinion of the Conservatives, who welcomed the fact that we could have broad support for this resolution, because then something would be imposed on the government. I'll just mention to Mr. Knox. Naser Khader that, firstly, I already made clear last year that the government is working to get Taiwan back with observer status in the WHA. And just to give an example, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader's party colleague, a question to me in July of last year about this, and there I replied, just to quote, that the government supports and works for Taiwan to be able to participate as an observer at the WHO's annual World Health Assembly, WHA. The current covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the need for effective multilateral cooperation with the WHO. At the same time, Taiwan should be given the opportunity to cooperate at technical level within the framework of the WHO, etc. In other words, the government has made it very clear, even before this motion for a resolution has been debated and has been put forward what we stand for. So I thank you on behalf of the government and myself as Foreign Minister for Parliament's support for this line. It's just for kicking a stake through it if there's any doubt. Is that debate superfluous? No, I think this has been a good debate. This is an important debate. This is a debate that we appreciate. What is then the second element of this motion for a resolution is that you want the government to do it in a certain way, in relation to making a coalition of countries, working through the European Union, etc. And that's where I'm gonna arrest a premise. I think it was sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, the rapporteur of the Left, who mentioned or suggested that we should only work through the European Union. That is simply not correct. Of course, we also work in other ways, such as: in the UN system, in order to ensure that Taiwan could have the same status as it had before 2016. And then there is the question: why does the Foreign Minister refer to the Foreign Policy Name as the appropriate forum for these talks? And I would like to try to clarify that a little, because I think that will give an understanding. When it comes to relations with other countries, the positions of other countries and the building of coalitions and diplomatic work, there is of course confidentiality involved in it: both the consideration of our own diplomatic impact, one might say, and the positions of other countries. You can't reveal them to the public if you know about them. Then we will certainly not get very good diplomatic trust work. So it is therefore a matter of foreign policy mention, and therefore it is unique that we have the Name, where we can discuss in confidence how we effectively implement and implement what we agree on. And what we agree on here is that Taiwan must return to an observer role in the WHA and, by the way, be integrated into technical cooperation within the WHO, not least in relation to the health crisis we are facing. It's just to make it absolutely clear here. But with that I would like to thank everyone again. Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard to also propose that the committee make a report, so as to get cemented and manifested what is widely agreed in the Folketing: Etkinapolitik; but of course also that Taiwan should return to WHA, what we agree to work for. So with that I hope for a good further process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110000	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110006	Thank you. Well, that's not exactly true, sir. Minister for Foreign Affairs. In fact, I simply asked in silence whether the government supported doing this outside the EU circle, and then I did not get an answer to the question. I'm doing that now in round two, and that's great. In view of this, I would just like to try to get around everything by thanking the government not only for seeing this resolved through the European Union, but also for using other diplomatic tools, such as the European Union. the coalition of countries that are being built up. And then I am fully involved in taking the discussion in the Foreign Affairs Committee, in the Foreign Affairs Committee, or where we should do so, so that we can hopefully have a unanimous Parliament to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110041	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110045	It's important. And the Foreign Policy Name is not just a place where we sit and discuss these things, but we also have the opportunity to go into detail on how we do it in practice. I think that in the time in which we live, the role and function of the Name is absolutely crucial, because we are in a world that is in many ways breaking up. Now we are discussing Taiwan, the WHA, the whole health crisis and the WHO. And the WHO is, after all, one of the key organisations that needs to be set up so that we can also overcome the covid-19 and possible other pandemics in the future. That is why I am delighted and thank you. And then I think we can close the debate here in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110125	Not quite, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110128	When you have two rounds, you need two rounds. I learned that when I joined the Danish Parliament almost 16 years ago. But I just want to say thank you, too, because this is an important issue. And I know very well that not many people notice it today because there are other things that fill up, but it is actually very important that Denmark takes the right side. That's why I'm really glad it looks like the whole parliament is backing this view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110153	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110156	I don't think we're pulling it anymore. It is also for the sake of the other rapporteurs in the Chamber for the other debates. So thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110159	Thank you. I should just like to point out that it is not in the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament that no one else has asked for the floor, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110224	Since new rapporteurs have been put in the Chamber, I would just like to point out that when you have been on the platform, you are scouting. And if you, sir... Michael Aastrup Jensen, needs to talk, so I ask that you pull out in the sideways. Good. We shall now proceed to the debate on L 131, and that is Mr L 131. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110251	Thank you for the floor, President. In Denmark, we need to do more to improve our nature and environment. The Government, the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Radicals, the Left and the Alternative agreed on this as part of the Agreement on Finance Act 2021. The bill here today must translate part of that agreement. The draft law is intended to provide funding for groundwater mapping and municipal action planning in the future, and this will be done by increasing the water tax. The increase in the water tax replaces the temporary drinking water contribution, which expired at the end of 2020 and was introduced in order to finance groundwater mapping and municipal effort planning. The financing of the groundwater mapping and municipal action planning will then be the subject of the Finance Act. The revenue from the proposed increase in the water tax corresponds to the revenue from the drinking water contribution in 2020 and this means that, overall, there will be no revenue consequences from the end of the drinking water contribution. For consumers, there will not be a change in the overall level of taxation, which is, of course, quite essential. In addition, the draft law will bring about changes of a legal nature in the Water Tax Act and the Water Supply Act, because the drinking water contribution ceased from 31 December 2020 onwards. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that more needs to be done for Denmark's nature and environment. We have some of the best groundwater in Denmark, and so it should be in the future. The Danes must continue to be able to open the tap and the drinking water with the greatest of course. Therefore, it is important that we ensure targeted protection of our groundwater, especially in view of the increasing pressure on our drinking water resources in recent years. This is what groundwater mapping and municipal effort planning should help to ensure, and with this bill we will ensure future funding in a way that ensures that the overall level of taxation for consumers will not be higher than last year. Social democracy therefore supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110506	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and after despriting we can move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110531	Thank you for the floor. After all, this bill is about turning a temporary tax into a permanent tax. In addition, the coupling is removed so that it no longer goes directly to finance the groundwater mapping. And that's kind of what we see as a problem. Because this goes from being something that has to finance something quite concrete to being a general increase in taxation, and that is the increase in taxation that we see in this process, which removes the link so that it does not have that connection. In future, the ground water mirror will have to be mapped out by the Finance Act, and it is fair enough to think so; but you just think that this tax should be permanent so that it no longer has any connection with the groundwater mirror. It's just a general tax on all Danes to use drinking water and I think that's actually a problem. Because it just makes it more expensive to be a Dane, it increases taxes and charges • and therefore the Left cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110627	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And after a despriting, it's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110644	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, this is the implementation of the financial law agreement, of which Dansk Folkeparti is not a part. It is actually a tax proposal, but it is really a question of drinking water, where funding for the future mapping of groundwater and municipal action planning in the same area needs to be found. This must then be done by increasing the water tax. The reason for this is that in the past there has been a temporary drinking water contribution which has expired. And what is our basic attitude to this is that it is therefore problematic that temporary financing should now be replaced by a permanent increase in taxes, and we really think this is a pretty bad idea. It may seem a small thing, of course, that it is 19 cents that you move onto the water tax, but yet we think that there have been so many tax increases that you may well be able to use the old proverb that many cymbals small make a large river. It's kind of perfect in this context. So the Danish People's Party cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110757	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's Mrs. Kathrine Olldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110819	Thank you, President. The groundwater supplies us with one of the most important resources we have at all, namely clean drinking water. And when you are thirsty, you can safely open the tap and drink the water, which is by no means a matter of course when we see how things stand in the rest of the world. That is why we must, of course, take good care of our drinking water, and that is why we have agreed to increase the water tax in connection with the 2021 Finance Act in order to finance the continued protection of drinking water. For the citizens worry and are also ready to pay more for good water, even though the Left and other parties in the blue block may not necessarily be interested in increasing the tax. This has been investigated by the interest organisation for drinking water and waste water companies, DANVA. A new report, just published by the Supply Secretariat based on replies from 2200 households, shows that the Danes would like to pay a little more for their drinking water if an increase in the water bill, for example. means increased security of supply or better water quality. We know the value of our drinking water. At the same time, we see a sharp increase in the closure of drinking water wells due to pesticide findings and the consequent need to drill new wells. That is why we in the Radical Left support the proposal and welcome the fact that with this tax we are promoting the protection of the precious water. At the same time, however, it is really worth discussing whether we may be investing too little in clean drinking water in the future. Of course, we are not going to have that discussion in this Chamber today, but let us not push it too far into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114110956	There is a brief comment on Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111000	Thank you. It is because the draft law states that the provision that the money should go specifically to drinking water protection and water management is being repealed. So how much of this tax is going to go forward for drinking water protection and drinking water mapping? Can the rapporteur say that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111021	As I understand it, we have not yet decided how to distribute it. But this is a general tax for the protection of Danish drinking water and how much is going to go to municipal planning and how much is going to go to the various parts that this tax has previously covered, as the rapporteur has also explained so well, has not yet been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111042	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111045	Do you have any assurance that the money will go to drinking water and not to everything else? Because I do not see in the text of the law that that is what they have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111054	In any case, I think we can sign for the Radical Left that this is where it needs to be tightened up when we translate it into reality that is what it has to do, because that is what we have agreed to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111102	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111109	It is easy to understand that taxes must be levied on things that, when they are produced, when they are consumed, etc., harm the environment. But how can one think of taxing the drinking of a glass of water? And it's not a user fee. Well, it costs something to pull up the water and clean it up and so on, but that's not what this is about. It's a tax, a tax on keeping your life going by drinking a glass of water. How the hell can you think of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111144	Putting a water tax on our drinking water is not necessarily something that we have a huge headache about. We can also see, as I also explained, that among the Danes in general there is actually quite a great understanding when we look at this study that has just come out that we have to protect our drinking water. And then a tax is not something that in any way makes it fight against us in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111206	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111211	However, we have older people who are encouraged to drink several litres of water per day etc. in order to sustain their lives, and then the Radical Left and the Red majority in this society say: yes, yes, but you also have to pay a tax when you now keep your old, fragile bodies going. What does it look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111238	It is, of course, very broad ideological to ask what it looks like. Now this is not a tax that knocks the bottom out of someone's purse, not even a folk pensionist's, I dare say. At least it's not something that scares my old parents. So, for us, it is not at all a crazy tax that we are putting on. So again, we're fine with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111259	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and after a despriting we can go further. That's fine, thanks for that. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111321	The draft law is based on the temporary increase in the water tax of 19 cents per year. m 3 The so-called drinking water contribution is intended to finance local authorities' efforts to protect and limit groundwater pollution so that we can continue to drink water from taps. With the proposal we are discussing today, we want to make the drinking water contribution permanent. In this way we are guaranteed a contribution to the cost of thorough work on pollutions near drinking water wells. For SF, the fight against groundwater pollution is heart blood. In recent years we have seen an increasing number of cases where there have been various pesticides near drinking water wells. It is therefore important that we take a hard line in order to ensure clean groundwater. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111412	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111416	Thank you. This is the increase in taxes and taxes that the red block came up with in this financial agreement, and I am really surprised that the red block is proposing something so socially wrong. Because this is going to hit the socially weak at least as hard as those who are well-off. Because it is not the case that you use more water because you have a better economy. So how can SF see itself in an agreement that abolishes this with that it should specifically go to drinking water? So it's just gonna be a general treasure, and it's gonna hit the wrong way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111452	I am really pleased with Mrs Louise Schack Petersen's speech if I were to understand that every time you make a tax increase, you have a very great concern that it should hit socially wrong. For them we have a number of examples. After all, there are a number of charges that are comparable to a flat tax. There are areas where it can be very difficult to do it, make it different. I believe that it would be difficult to make a social differentiation in this area in relation to water, whereas in other areas it would be possible to restore social freedom and equal access to different services. After all, VAT is equal, and that is something that could be discussed: is it really right that VAT is the same for all of us? But in this area I cannot immediately see the model of how to make a social differentiation of it. But you can fix it in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111533	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111536	But now it is not the case that you just continue with a tax. You can't do that. You can't do that. You want it to clean up generational pollution, I understand, but you have chosen to finance it by means of a tax that affects this way. It hits the socially weak at least as hard as it hits those who are well-off. How can SF look itself in the eye by asking people in this socially weak way to finance that part? How did you come up with that funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111603	It is not unusual for a tax to be made in connection with a task which one wants to solve. The social imbalance in access to life as a whole is, after all, being corrected through other initiatives. This is about everyone having access to clean water. And there I actually think that if you think through the thought and I can now understand that there is a new social heart beating in the Left, and I am happy about that in the situation where you do not have clean drinking water, then exactly leave it to the people who can afford to pay their way out of it. This gives everyone access.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111636	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111639	I should just like to ask if the rapporteur, if you look at this tax in isolation, can confirm that it turns the heavy end down socially and hits people who have suffered, harder than people who have much in their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111655	It is completely like other taxes where we do not go in and make a social differentiation. Then it is clear that it hits harder, just as VAT hits harder on those who have less income and who have to buy food. So it's like with other charges. That is absolutely correct. So social recovery is done by other means in the Finance Act, in our initiatives. It is true, however, that such a tax in isolation affects the people who have the least, harder, just as many other taxes do. You can't get around that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111719	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111723	After all, the government has been sitting for a year and a half and we see one after another tax being imposed on citizens. However, we have seen virtually all the tax increases we have seen re-registration in relation to car taxation, we have seen taxes on cigarettes hitting with the social arrow down and hurting those who have the least, the tax increases that the SF adds votes to. Is that SF's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111757	It is SF's policy to defend our clean groundwater. It is so, and it is not just SF's policy, it is SF's heartblood.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111802	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111806	Now, sir. Karsten Hønge twice said that it is like VAT. No, it's not like VAT. For VAT is a percentage that is applied to all consumption and those who have a lot of money consume a lot and therefore pay more in VAT than those who have little money and who consume little. The issue of having an excise duty, a tax of some kind, on an essential commodity to survive or on goods that are more consumed by people with low incomes is, after all, where the heavy end turns downwards; when you have those taxes, that is where taxation is harder on people with low incomes than on people with high incomes. Because it is not the case that if you make a lot of money, you also drink ten times as much water as if you do not make so much money. Consumption of water for example. drinking and cooking are about the same for people, whether they make a lot of money or get money. Therefore, the question is: why does SF do this here if SF says SF cares a lot about people with low incomes having more for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111911	I'm quite sure that mr. Ole Birk Olesen well understood my comparison with VAT, namely that you have a flat tax, that you have a flat tax. It is not, of course, the case that you can compare it as such, that you can, of course, consume more if you have more money. That's where it's different. But the fact that in a number of contexts we have equal taxes regardless of income, there is nothing unusual about this. And it is true that it cannot be avoided that it will be more expensive for the people who earn less, and that is why we have a task in all sorts of other contexts to correct the inequalities that can arise socially. This is an extremely important task for society, namely to defend our clean groundwater, and that is where we have to contribute, and we can do that in this way, and to the extent that there is a social imbalance, there are a number of other tools that give us the opportunity to remedy this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111952	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114111955	Yeah, we saw, among other things. in the first Finance Act made by the government with the SF, the removal of the ceiling on cash benefits, etc., and on the other hand new taxes were introduced. But even when these things were calculated together, even though they received more money from the government and the SF, by abolishing the ceiling on cash benefits, it was so for the groups with the lowest incomes in Denmark that the tax increases filled more for them, so that overall they became poorer. So with regard to all that talk about doing something else, I have to say that you, the majority, are doing nothing else that outweighs the tax increases that you are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112035	It is true that we can surely find the cigarette tax, which in this way affects socially wrong, but which then has other purposes in relation to public health, which is good. And if I'm gonna hear that sir... Ole Birk Olesen really believes that we have not been sufficiently insistent on having a social recovery, so let me take it with me. But that certainly means that I am considering an extra charge for pouring water out of my ears.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112101	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and after a despriting, thank you for that, we move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112121	Thank you. In Denmark we have a country where we can safely open our taps and we can drink the water. It is quite natural for us that this is how it is in many other places in the world that it is a privilege, and it is also a privilege which means a great deal to those who have the least in our society that it is actually the case, for example, that we have a special right. is not going out to buy water at the supermarket. Our water has been under pressure over the past many years because of pesticides and pollution, which is why it is necessary to do a job, and that work must indeed be intensified in terms of what it is like today, in order to protect our water. In 2011, as other rapporteurs have mentioned, a drinking water contribution was introduced to finance the tasks of the Ministry of the Environment and the municipalities in relation to the protection of groundwater, including the identification and designation of areas with drinking water interest, catchment areas and areas that are particularly sensitive to pollution. After all, the scheme did not guarantee a lasting financing of the effort, because the contribution was due to lapse by the end of 2020 and, in order to ensure that there is continued funding of the effort in relation to our groundwater, the Enhedslisten, together with other Finance Parties, has changed the fact that instead of the drinking water contribution, the water tax is increased. The tax increase corresponds to the drinking water contribution, so there is no additional bill for customers. I think it has perhaps been a little lacking in the debate that has been going on so far that there is no further increase in the tax on customers. However, we ensure that there is also a solid economy in the future that can ensure a continued high water quality for citizens. So, of course, Enhedslisten supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112314	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112318	Now we understood Mr. Karsten Hønge, that the money from this water tax was going to be used to clean up after generational pollution, and that has nothing to do with water quality. In other words, we fully agree that generational pollution is a problem which needs to be tackled and which needs to be removed, but it has nothing to do with water quality. So my question to Mr. Rune Lund must be: it is said that it has to do with water quality, but it seems that we do not agree on this in the circle of finance, in other words what money should actually go to, so what does Mr. Rune Lund is this, sir. Karsten Hønge, who is right, or is it Mr. Hønge? Rune Lund, who's right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112400	We can, of course, start with the facts in this debate, which has also emerged in the eyes of those who have listened to it, in other words, that there has been a targeted financing scheme which is going to become a more general financing system, in which it forms part of the cross-cutting priorities of expenditure policy. My assessment, our assessment, will then be that because our drinking water is under as much pressure as it is, there is no indication that in the years to come we will be spending less on protecting our drinking water. So if the concern is that these funds should go to other parts than drinking water, then I would say that the concern, if I may call it that, is not shared in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112440	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112443	So, sir. Rune Lund can guarantee that, compared with the millions collected here with this water tax, there will also be at least the consumption for drinking water protection, that it is the money that is collected in water tax, and not all sorts of other money that goes into the protection of drinking water, and that they do not go into anything else, for example. generational pollutions, like Mr. Karsten Hønge was talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112514	I cannot guarantee this in principle with the model chosen, but I can guarantee two things: 1) I believe that it is not the case that too much money is being spent on protecting our drinking water. So I don't see it as a likely scenario. 2) I can guarantee that Enhedslisten believes and works to ensure that, in relation to this money, we have to make sure that there is this minimum level of protection for our drinking water.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112534	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112538	I was kind of glad that Mr. Rune Lund just confirmed that this is going down in the Treasury's big box, and then Enhedslisten has some priorities, and SF has some other priorities, but there's actually no certainty about what this money is going to do. The fact that you want a good groundwater does not mean that this money goes to better groundwater, because that is something you have to clarify in the contract circle later on. We can then hear what Enhedslisten's priorities are and respect for it but nevertheless this has become a quite ordinary tax. It has not come to anything that has to finance something specific, and that means that we have also chosen to take a tax that would otherwise have ended now and impose it. This means that water must be a giffendo, which means that if the price rises on water and everyone needs water, then you'll just be able to afford fewer things next door. So it's gonna hit real hard. We know that with the giffengoder they hit working families and others really hard. How can it be that we have approved the continuation of a levy which would otherwise have expired and which hits so badly socially and which does not guarantee the money for better groundwater?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112648	We see that with this tax there is funding for groundwater, but that funding is actually already too small, also with this measure, in relation to what is needed. That's one thing. I also think it is important to say again that there will not be an increase in excise duties for consumers, but that it depends, of course, on what the starting point is and, as I understand it, it is not based on the fact that the tax continues at the current level, but only in a different form, but that the starting point is that it was so gone and that, therefore, it is a rise in the tax corresponding to the level it was already. This is a little how I understand the discussion. No consumers will be worse off in 2021 than they were in 2020. It's a fact. Can't the Left deal with that as well? Sometimes I get a little confused. I can't really figure out what it really is that is the definition of the left tax stop. I have to admit that it is a little confusing for some of us here in Parliament, where the Left is actually lying, and how to define a tax increase. I have to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112747	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112750	Well, then it's lucky that Mr. Knox... Rune Lund is not a member of the Left. At least I know exactly what a tax stop is. This was a tax that was due to expire. It is a bit like if a mortgage expires, and then you say that you just extend it, but now the money not only goes to the mortgage they go to everything different, but also it would also be a strange thing, and it would still make it more expensive to be a Dane. However, can the rapporteur confirm that the provisions which state that the money should go to mapping and designation, as well as the costs associated with the mapping and designation of these groundwater areas, so that the law no longer says what the money should go to, and that it should specifically go to groundwater protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112831	As I said, this is another way of financing it than it has been in the past, but the funds must go to the area. Then I just find it very interesting what Mrs Louise Schack Elholm says. Does this mean that every time a tax expires and is then extended, it is a breach of the tax freeze? I think that opens up completely new perspectives for what sort of agreements the Left can be included in and what sort of agreements the Left seems to have drawn a red circle around and which cannot be included in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112853	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112857	Why has it not been ensured that the money goes to the protection of groundwater? When I hear the rapporteur, that is what you think the money should go to. It will cost more in the future; I might actually agree with that. But why has it not been ensured that that money will go to it when it is said that there is a need to finance it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112922	That is because it is our view that that money will actually go to the area, and should it be opposed or should it end up being opposed to what I am saying here, then I think we have a new situation, and then it is clearly something that will be addressed by the financial law parties. At least I can guarantee that. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112937	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112940	If there were an amendment that would guarantee that the money would go to the drinking water area, would the Enhedslisten vote in favour of that amendment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112950	No, I can guarantee what I am saying here on the floor of Parliament's platform, but I will not be voting for amendments from the New Citizens' Party to a financial agreement concluded with some other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114112958	There are no more brief comments. I would like to thank the rapporteur, and I thank him for that. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113036	I'm sure it won't come as a surprise that we can't support this bill. We are against higher taxes, and that is what we are talking about here. We will only vote in favour of higher taxes if it is a question of either closing some tax gaps, or if you make a tax change, where you then lower some other taxes, and here it is just a purely tax increase. It is then even a tax increase on the product, the product which is most essential of all goods at all, namely drinking water. There is nothing you can imagine that is more essential than drinking water. That is why it is a tax increase which hits very hard on all people, especially those who do not have a great deal of money, and that is why it is another inequality-building measure by the government and its support parties, which we wonder about voting in favour of on the left, but that is something we must defend ourselves. We shall certainly vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113145	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and after despriting we can go further. Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113209	It is soon time to expose the Left's bluff that they care about the most socially disadvantaged in society • those who have the least. Because when it comes down to it, the facts just hit hard on their heads. The truth has a good ability to do that, and so does it here. After all, the fact is that there are financial laws and tax increases that hit those who have the least, the hardest. It would be nice if the Left would recognise that if we want to do something good for those who have the least in society, we could help the rest of us to lower taxes, give more freedom and give more money to the account, so that citizens, even if they have suffered in income, can have a good life. But the left will not, because, after all, it is more important to upholstery the treasury from in here, so that the left wing, together with the government, has more funds to give out to what else they can come up with. It is a very, very bad idea, it is quite irresponsible, and it affects the Danes and especially the Danes who have the least, in society. We will not support this in the new citizens, and that is why we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113324	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That's why it's now, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113339	There have been many strange taxes in the world throughout history. Some have had the purpose of getting people to behave in certain ways, others have had the pure purpose of getting some money into the treasury. Once upon a time, people were taxed according to how many windows they had in their house. So when you read stories of how dark it was in old times in people's houses, it hung, among other things. together with the fact that in some places there was a tax on the number of windows that simply could not afford to get the light into the houses. Because then you had to pay more taxes. At one point in Russia there was also one of the Tsars who thought that it was not European enough for the Russian men to carry beards. So he put a treasure on having a beard. For it was more European not to have it and he wanted to Europeanise Russia. Of course, I must say, it is the foolishest treasure I have ever heard of, but it explains very well that the thing about putting taxes on things often has nothing to do with the random whims of those in power. It is the same when the rulers are democratically elected. Now we're about to have a treasure on water. So it is not a question of what we know, namely that we are paying water dissipation tax, which is a user charge, because it actually costs something to get water in the house and get water away from the house. No, it's just a treasure to have water. If you were to find a similar grotesque treasure, you could imagine a treasure on the air we breathe, because it's just as crazy, you might say. It's a little harder to control, but maybe you could do something with an app where people tell how much they exercise etc. and if they exercise a lot, they have to pay more taxes on the air they breathe than if they sit at home on the couch all the time. Because you breathe a lot of air when you exercise. Furthermore, you also drink more when exercising, and there are some social groups in particular who must be very careful that they drink very much, otherwise they risk drying out, namely the elderly. They need to drink a lot, they're told by their doctor. But they are now also going to pay more in tax because the left is thinking that there should be a tax on water. One of the most important things we can imagine to survive, namely pouring liquid into our body, we must then have a tax on it not even in the form of lemonade or beer or coffee, or whatever else we have taxation of, but on the pure, pure H 2 O, water. We forgot to put a treasure on the water. It has been there, and there has been a temporary contribution at some point, because we had to spend some money, but it is going to end. We simply forgot to put a treasure on the water. We're gonna have to make that right. We're gonna have to. We can't have people taking water from their taps and into their stomachs without putting on a treasure. So you do, and then you say a few things about the fact that we need clean drinking water in this country. There is no connection at all. It is a pure tax and there is nothing in the legislation that says that that money should go to ensure clean drinking water. SF's rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge, says they should go to pollution control or generational pollution control. It is a dignified purpose, it is, but it has nothing to do with water. This has nothing to do with the quality of groundwater. There are no drinking water wells near the places where there are generational pollutions. So it's a clean treasure on water. I think it's mysterious, and I think we have a left wing in Denmark who can't find a single area in this country that they think they can be freed from tax payments, not even when it comes to drinking a glass of water. The next must be a tax on the air we breathe, and we look forward with fear to the next budget negotiations to which the Social Democrats are calling the red bloc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113807	Thank you. Wait a minute, there's a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113815	Yeah, and there's gonna be a drink, too, and there's gonna be more stuff. Now Mr. Ole Birk Olesen saw again, just like Mr. Ole Birk Olesen did so in question to Mr. Rune Lund, that I should have mentioned generational pollution. I'd like to have Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen to confirm now that I did not mention in one word the generational pollution in my speech, at all. I was talking about pollution at water wells. I have not mentioned the generational pollution in this context at all. Where's it coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113847	It was Mrs Louise Schack Elholm who, in a question to Mr. Karsten Hønge mentioned the generational pollution. I understood that it was because sir... Karsten Hønge had mentioned it in her speech and that is why Mrs Louise Schack Elholm asked about it. In any case, Mr. Karsten Hønge did not, and I took that as an expression of the fact that it was probably true that Mr. Karsten Hønge has mentioned generational pollution. But if Mr. Karsten Hønge has not done so, I regret the several times I have mentioned it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113911	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113915	Oh, that was purely the von hearing case. So instead of listening to my speech, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen apparently did everything else, and when a representative from another party misunderstands what I say, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen it for good goods. Well, it's no wonder that sometimes things can go wrong in politics. But let me just make it clear: I did not mention the word generational pollution. It doesn't have to do with this. This is about defending water wells and clean drinking water. The generational pollution is another story for which we have found other money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114113942	I'm sorry if I misunderstood this. But there's the thing about Mr. Kim. Karsten Hønges speaks that 80% of them consist of phrases and old clichés. There you may have a tendency to fall into your own thoughts, and if there is 20 per cent. We have to be careful and listen to it at that time, but it can be
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114003	Thank you. Okay, I'm gonna have to get a drink. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114022	Thank you. A little louder is being said in the Chamber that tax rapporteurs are having more fun, and one can hear that from such a debate as today. For example, after Mr. Ole Birk Olesen had been on the platform, led to believe that we should now have a treasure on water • as if we do not have it at all now. So this is an increase in the tax on water, which has also existed under the previous government. And what is this increase replacing? Yes, that is the drinking water contribution that also existed under the previous government. This then means that an increase in the water tax will be introduced, because we would still like to have a strong effort to protect our groundwater and to plan the protection of groundwater. That is basically what this is about. We can easily take all these exciting tax discussions every time, and I look forward to that, because I understand that there is a lot of energy on the right in that discussion, and there are many parties that care a lot about it, and we take the discussion every time it is fine. But basically, this is about giving us better opportunities and frameworks to protect our groundwater. We'd be happy to take the discussion on that. I am quite sure that the Danes will give very, very high priority that we will continue to be able to protect it That, overall, it does not mean that consumers are experiencing an increase, I even think is very good, because, as Mr. Rune Lund actually said in her rapporteur's speech, so it is clear that when a contribution ends, there is a lack of funding, and that is guaranteed by increasing the water tax by 19 cents. That's what this is about. This helps us to continue to have a very high level of protection for our groundwater, and I think that is quite good indeed. With those words, I hope that it is clear what this is all about and how balanced it is and why it is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114231	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114236	The previous drinking water contribution should go specifically to finance the mapping and designation of groundwater areas, as I understand it. Can the Minister confirm that this money has no longer been targeted specifically, that is to say that the provision that it should specifically go to groundwater has been abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114258	Yeah, that's right. However, it is clear that when a contribution that specifically went to the work in question lapses, that contribution is of course no longer there, and then we have to find another funding. The previous government could have just chosen to make a different arrangement, but that has been chosen not to do so. Now we are solving the problem that has emerged from the fact that we have chosen the approach to what we have from the previous government, so that we can maintain a good and thorough level of, you might say, the designation of those areas where there may be a problem for our drinking water. That's basically what this is all about. So that's why we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114326	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114330	And then you choose to finance it by means of a tax increase that turns the heavy end down again. It's a pretty clear way this government does it. You simply raise taxes or taxes all the time, and this has now become a general tax that does not have to finance better groundwater, but simply goes into the treasury, and then you have to find the funding to ensure better groundwater. So can the Minister confirm that this is turning the heavy end downwards that it will be as expensive for the economically weak as it will be for the rich in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114403	The Minister can confirm what the bill says, namely that for consumers there will be no change in the overall level of taxation. The draft law sets out what priority has been given to it at the top of page 5.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114416	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114421	When some people want to raise taxes, this is an appropriate time to discuss whether we should have those taxes at all. And it is true that there is a water tax today, but should we have it? Why is it so important to demand tax on people's consumption of vital goods such as water? Why? What is the reason for the levy on water? What is the tax minister's justification, what is the government's justification for the tax on water?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114457	I understand where Mr. Keating is. Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance stand, but sometimes I don't understand your views on tax policy. I believe that the reasons which this government has for why there should be a water tax must be the same as those which applied when Mr. Ole Birk Olesen himself was in government, because that is the same tax we are talking about. We are adjusting it a little, because one of the contributions that should be to this important work, which I hope we agree on is important, is now going to lapse. So I assume the explanatory statement is the same. Now it is not allowed here to ask questions, but one could then ask Mr. Ole Birk Olesen at a later stage: if you were against this, why didn't you fight to abolish it when you were in government? You didn't. It has probably been felt that it was important to have a water tax so that people's consumption of water was as minimal as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114543	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114547	My acquaintance is allowed to ask questions, and I am happy to answer them. We, in the Liberal Alliance, have fought through financial law to ensure that the amount that could be allocated to tax reliefs was as large as possible. Once that amount has been fixed, we have chosen which taxes should be relieved. If we could set a higher amount if we had 90 seats in the Folketing and could set a higher amount, we would also have tackled the water tax. Unfortunately, however, there is a majority here in the Danish Parliament who wants to spend a great deal of money and who therefore needs to collect a great deal of money. But I would just like to ask the tax minister and the government: why does the government think it is necessary to have a tax on water?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114632	Because it's important that we take care of our water. It is important that we have an incentive to ensure that, when they open the tap, people remember to close it as soon as possible, and it is important that we have money to ensure that there is also clean drinking water for future generations. Thus, with this proposal, we will ensure the mapping of where groundwater is and where there are problems, so we will ensure that the mapping and the work on it can still be paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114700	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114705	Thank you. When you read the bill and go down and look at the chart, it says: 'I quote: 'The proposal for an increase in the water tax is estimated to increase the immediate tax burden on business by approx. 45 million kr. in 2021, which is, however, expected to be passed on in the form of higher prices to consumers. Couldn't the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114733	There is no comment on that other than what is stated there. It is a general calculation, and I assume that if you had looked at the draft law in which the previous government's drinking water tax was introduced, the point would have been completely the same. As I have said, this is a work which can continue; a work in which funding must be found because the previous government had chosen not to guarantee lasting financing for this area. That is where this government, with the parliamentary basis we have, believes that when we talk about securing the groundwater of the future, it is important that there is sustainable funding, because this work is not something that can be planned from year to year. It takes planning to ensure that we have clean and good groundwater so that we can still drink what comes out of the taps.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114822	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114826	I asked Enhedslisten's rapporteur why it has not been ensured that this money will then go to drinking water. If it is intended to do so, why has it not been written down that this tax increase should go towards securing and improving our drinking water?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114844	The increase is that we can continue the work that was started and which was good, but which the previous government unfortunately had not secured further funding for. That's what we're doing now. And that is why, with this proposal, the Finance Act has given political support to the fact that it is work that we are going to continue, but now we are moving funding and it does not affect the overall level of taxation for consumers. We think this is the right way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114912	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114944	The debate is open. Here you go, the treasure minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114114950	Thank you. Now we have to deal with a motion for a resolution by the Liberal Alliance, which concerns the introduction of a full right to deduct VAT on professional restaurant visits. With the proposal, the Liberal Alliance wants to help the catering industry, which is particularly hard hit by the corona crisis, to ensure that Denmark gets through the crisis as well economically as possible. In addition, the Liberal Alliance finds it illogical that VAT is not fully deducted on professional restaurant visits, as it is expenditure resulting from the performance of certain professions. I would like to start by saying that the government agrees with the intentions behind this resolution. Through a number of agreements with the Danish Parliament's parties, we have already secured a boost to Danish economy of around 135 billion. kr., and at the same time tax measures have been carried out which could potentially increase the company's liquidity by approx. 300 billion. kr. And by 2020 alone, the government's economic policy has secured 79,000 more Danes in jobs and has ensured that the Danish economy is well equipped to meet the challenges that we are facing now and which, unfortunately, are among other things. continue to come from the serious health crisis in which we find ourselves. The fiscal strategy and aid packages have also helped to keep their hands on industries that have been particularly hard hit by the restrictions, including restaurants and other industries in the experience economy. For example: is the hotel and catering industry among the professions which have made the most use of the possibility of obtaining an interest-free VAT loan, which has also been possible. In addition, the Government has initiated a series of relief packages, both for the benefit of the business community in general, as well as for the catering industry and other industries in the experience industry. More specifically, I can mention that the government, as part of the Finance Act together with Radical Left, SF, Enhedslisten and Alternativet, have agreed to support the experience industry, including just exactly restaurants and hotels etc. 750 million has been set aside. kr. in 2021 to support the experience industry. The aid shall be implemented, inter alia: by targeting funds in 2021 for civil society interventions for vulnerable and vulnerable citizens; for example, it may: be gift vouchers for experiences, including restaurant visits. In addition, funds will be provided in 2021 for the implementation of activities in the social and elderly sectors, which can both counteract the loneliness and isolation of the target group as a result of the covid-19 restrictions and at the same time support industries in the experience industry. Finally, funds are also allocated in 2021 to support the experience industry through a temporary tax exemption on employers' paid gift cards for catering services with an annual limit of DKK 1,200. With these many initiatives targeted at the experience and catering industry, there is a broad focus on encouraging both private and business consumption of catering services rather than focusing solely on the commercial purchase of catering services, which will therefore be the case with full VAT deduction, as proposed in this resolution. With the Finance Act, the government has thus given a solid boost to the pressured industries in the experience industry, but we are, of course, constantly following developments for all professions, as the Covid-19 pandemic develops, to assess whether further efforts are needed. Having said that, there are in fact several reasons why there is today a reduction in VAT on restaurant visits. The right to deduct is one of the following: limited to 25% because professional restaurant visits may contain a significant element of private consumption. In addition, the deduction limit is 25 per cent. a special exception, and this is important, as Denmark has in relation to the EU's VAT rules, a so-called standstill provision. And stand still means that Denmark can keep the rule. If we introduce a full VAT deduction, we will not be able to go back to the limit of this 25%. The introduction of full deduction of VAT on professional purchases of catering services will thus become a permanent initiative, while the current situation of covid-19 calls more for temporary measures to support the catering industry. The proposal will therefore be a very expensive instrument, which is estimated to entail a permanent annual financing requirement of 3.7 billion. kr. We support the intentions behind the motion for a resolution by the government. Together with a broad majority in the Folketing, we have taken a whole series of initiatives to support the activity, both for employees and companies in the field, which we typically call experience economy, i.e. restaurants and hotels and other things. We are monitoring it closely and the aid packages are being extended, now also with the postponement of the opening of the restaurants. We are looking at developments with great earnestness. But the concrete proposal here cannot be supported by the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115550	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115554	That's something weird. When a company buys a new office chair, there is full VAT relief; when a company buys new pens or a new computer, there is full VAT relief. But those companies where there is a need for, for example, there is a need. must be eaten a dinner or lunch with customers, or to send employees to employee seminars where they are also eaten, can only withdraw 25%. of VAT from their VAT accounts. That's something weird. Then the tax minister says that it is because there is a significant element of private consumption when you are out eating with a customer or if you are an employee at a staff seminar. Where's it coming from? Well, it may well be that if you are new to the labour market, you still think it's fun to have lunch with customers or to have to go to employee seminar, but I can assure you that it doesn't take much more than 5-10 years before you would rather sit at home with the family and eat. It's not like you think it's funny to eat with customers or go to a staff seminar. You'd rather be at home. So this claim that there is a significant element of private consumption is probably just something that the tax minister has pulled out of the sky the blue. Where's it coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115711	I think that if there had been a bourgeois minister of taxation up here, the same would have been said about the assessment of the distribution of consumption in this area. And that is the assessment that has been made. I think we should just bear in mind that, in addition to that, there is also the particular EU aspect that I mentioned. So if you want to help the catering industry, especially in the time we are in now, then I believe that the initiatives that the government has put in place are more targeted and therefore also more effective in raising the industry in the context of the problems they have now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115751	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115755	Well, we definitely think this should be permanent, and we just think that there's now a good opportunity to start making this permanent. And I am quite sure that if you ask the catering industry in Denmark if you want government charity, or if you prefer to have a permanent full tax relief for the consumption of restaurant services by companies, then you prefer the latter. It sounds almost to the tax minister as if the government gives something better, in the form of the charity that you hand out, but that's not right. Well, this is better than the restaurant industry would say if it was asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115839	I have participated in many debates during this terrible corona crisis and met many parts of Danish business and heard how the situation affects their ability to run their business and keep employees in work. So far I have not heard any of them characterise the very great help given by the broad majority in the Folketing as charity. Maybe I think that's a little too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115900	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115901	I'm a little confused about government policy in relation to the restaurants. I doubt whether the government wants more people to go to a restaurant or whether the government wants fewer people to go to a restaurant. At first you should think that when you make restrictions and ask the restaurants to stay closed after 8:00. 22.00 or keep permanently closed, it is because you want fewer people to go to the restaurant, but then the government has made a Finance Act where you give gift cards to get more people to go to the restaurant. So what does the government really want? Does the government want more or less to go to a restaurant?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114115943	The government wants to support a central part of the Danish economy, namely our experience industry. We have done so with various initiatives, and I have examined them here. The gift certificate in question, which is one of the initiatives, is one that can be used over a long period of time. It can be said that the restrictions which Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is of course right you seem tough and have meant shutdowns, are arranged in a way that hopefully we can get out as quickly as possible on the other side of this terrible crisis. Then we hope that the aid packages we have put in place and the initiatives we have taken will mean that consumers, that is to say, us Danes, get more money between their hands. Someone gets the opportunity to apply a gift certificate deduction to their employees, and it could be used in the restaurants. I simply do not see that there should be any other desire in it than to support a profession which is very hard pressed right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120046	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120048	Why does the tax minister think it should be more expensive to go to a restaurant in Denmark than it should be in all our neighbouring countries? So, when you have this special rule that you cannot deduct VAT exactly on restaurant visits, it makes restaurant visits considerably more expensive in Denmark than in our neighbouring countries. Why does it have to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120114	We have organized the tax policy in this area where VAT is deducted, and I think that is a good thing. It helps to support a profession. When the Conservative People's Party now supports a proposal which puts a permanent hole in the box of 3.7 billion. kr., you have to tell the Danes how you plan to find that money. And I can't wait to hear that. But the government's policy here is relatively clear, I think, that we support a profession that is hard hit by the crisis, with many different initiatives. Most recently with the Finance Act, and we want that because we want as much as possible, including in the experience industry, to get through this terrible crisis that we are in now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120202	Thank you. And then it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120205	Thank you. Well, the cost of food at the restaurant gives a quarter VAT deduction. If the company then chooses to take business relations into the company and feed them there, then they get 100 percent. deduction. If it makes sense to have the difference between the things, that is, if you go out and support a restaurant out there, you don't get so much VAT deduction, but if you eat them internally in the food business, you get 100 percent. VAT deduction?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120240	Thank you. I think that makes perfect sense, and that is because the deductions that are made here in relation to VAT have been assessed on the basis of what is typical of behaviour that is believed to be taking place, and that is why we have the cut that has been made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120255	Thank you. Then we can move on in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120336	Thank you very much. I was sitting down there wondering if it might be possible to avoid touching the desk. Well, thank you for the floor, President. I would like to begin by commending the authors of the motion for a resolution for a hand-out to the catering industry, which is undoubtedly one of the most severely affected sectors in relation to the corona crisis and the tough but necessary restrictions. Social democracy fully agrees with the ambition to support the particularly vulnerable industries. Therefore, as part of the 2021 Finance Act with the Radicals, SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative, the government has agreed to support the experience economy, including the catering industry. In relation to the initiatives, payment must take place in parallel with the covid-19 pandemic and in accordance with the guidelines of the Danish Health Authority. Since the motion for a resolution has been tabled, agreement has been reached on the stimulation of the experience economy, including the catering industry, which will be launched when the development of the epidemic again allows to go to the restaurant. In addition, the payment of holiday allowances and other initiatives to support private consumption, including catering services. In addition, the initiatives already taken have a broader impact as they cover larger parts of the experience economy than a full VAT reduction for the catering industry will do. At the same time, full VAT relief on professional restaurant visits could ultimately run the risk of crowding out privately purchased restaurant services, which would counter the intention of the motion for a resolution. The proposed VAT relief for professional restaurant visits is also a permanent initiative which will result in an annual reduction in revenue of 3.7 billion. kr., as this is a permanent and therefore not a temporary initiative. The proposers want to finance the 3.7 billion. kr. above the fiscal room for manoeuvre. As I have said, the government has already launched initiatives to support the catering industry and wants to use the scope for other priorities, for example. to strengthen welfare and support the green transition and strengthen education and research. As I have said, social democracy agrees with the intention behind the proposal, but we do not believe that the proposal is using the right tools and we cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120601	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120606	It is not just Denmark in the world. We also have neighbouring countries, and if a company wants to create a large staff seminar for its 1,000 employees, then the company can choose to do so in Denmark, but it can also choose to do so in Sweden, for example, if it was a Copenhagen company. You just have to get over the bridge. Or if it was a Jutland company: in northern Germany. And common to the two countries is that they have full VAT relief on restaurant visits: you get back VAT as a foreign company if you are charged VAT on restaurant visits in Sweden and in Germany. So, there's only 25%. VAT relief here in Denmark does, of course, encourage the company to put its large staff seminar in e.g. Southern Sweden or Northern Germany. Is that wise?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120701-2	I think that once again it seems as if the rapporteur is trying to present it as if there is a huge problem with some things which, in reality, may not exist. We have had a well-functioning system in Denmark for many years, and it looks as if it works and creates turnover where it is intended to generate turnover.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120718	Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120720	There is no doubt whatsoever that this is happening. There is no doubt whatsoever that there are companies which set up their staff seminars in Sweden and Germany, for example, and thus receive a full VAT relief on VAT costs for the feeding of employees. So there is no doubt whatsoever that there will be some companies that would choose a Danish restaurant for if you didn't have this rule. And then it's just that I'm asking, is that wise? It is true that things are working as they are today. But they work on a lower blouse than they could if we abolished this rule. Is it wise to keep the rule then?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120758	In any case, it is wise to retain the income of the Danish Treasury, which enables us to maintain a welfare society which has been well-known for many years, contrary to the direction Mr. Ole Birk Olesen wants to pursue: precisely to ensure that revenue does not come in and that there will therefore be no opportunity to make welfare work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120816	Thank you. And then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114120846	Thank you, Mr President. The restaurant industry is one of the places that has paid a very high price during the corona crisis. The many and changing restrictions have made it almost impossible to run a restaurant business. Many restaurants have been completely or partially closed down, and we have just said goodbye to a Christmas time that is usually one of the busiest periods for restaurants and restaurants. For the time being, the courses in the hotel and catering industry cover more than 1,000 full-time positions. Nor does it help that the relief packages against the wishes of the Left have punished the restaurants that have wanted to keep the business going with takeaway solutions, for example. In the Left, we believe that it is necessary to make a determined effort to help the catering industry, which has paid a very high price under the coronatide. That is why we have been focusing on this during negotiations on aid packages. In fact, it has also succeeded in moving more money to this area and many other areas for precisely the same reasons. The industry employs a great many Danes and helps to keep Danish economy going. We need restaurants and restaurants both now, but also very much to kick off the economy when we can again go out and eat in a corona-free society. Many of us are looking forward to it. In the Left, we basically agree with the Liberal Alliance that we must take action targeted at our restaurants, and we also have sympathy for the resolution itself. In normal circumstances, full VAT relief on business visits can give greater demand to an industry that Danes and tourists have not recently had the opportunity to support as normal. It is therefore a good proposal that we have here, but there is one. And that is that it is also financially irresponsible, yes, it is just before I would say irresponsible to give unfinanced VAT reliefs of an order of 3.7 billion. kr. After all, it is also a silly money, one must say. And since the Left is a party in which it is important that the money is right, we cannot support that proposal. However, I would like to take this into account in the Corona negotiations that must come forward in the field of aid packages, and I have great sympathy for the proposal itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121158	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121205	Thank you for the non-committal words that you think it looks good. But not so much thanks for saying that it is irresponsible and that it is unfunded when we say that we think it should be financed through the room for manoeuvre which is, of course, present in the Danish economy. That is a nonsense to say, because I have been sitting in one debate after another, where the Left has participated and said: let us finance it here through the room for manoeuvre. It was not irresponsible of the Left to say so, and it is certainly not irresponsible of us to say so in this connection, so that this should be financed through the margin of manoeuvre. Then, unfortunately, one would not want to stop the kind of thing that I must regard as a frivolous rhetoric on the part of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121249	Thank you. I don't think we should stand and call each other frivolous at all that's also why I said bordering on frivolous. But it is, after all, 3.7 billion. kr., we're talking about, and that's why we in the Left are holding onto our tax stop because we just don't want to stand and discuss it on an unfunded basis. There are, of course, some who are pushing us in one direction. We saw this in the proposal that was just about drinking water contributions, where we also hold onto our tax stop and this is like another way of pushing us in the Left and saying that we can just put the tax down. Generally speaking, we are very much in favour of reducing the tax, but there must be a team in relation to where we find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121342	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121344	Now the Left has to stop doing that. It is only a year and a half since the Left went to the polls to spend a very large number of billions on more welfare financed at the disposal of the room. And that's a good enough financing... there's gonna be more money in the treasury, and then you say you're gonna spend it on more welfare. Then we come here and say: No, we would actually like to use the scope for tax relief. It is then claimed that it is bound to be irresponsible, that it is not right and that it cannot be done, etc. Well, the Left does it all the time. Don't do it!
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121420	Thank you. And it is because it is the case that when the Left presents a draft budget, it is fully funded. You can see that every year, and it's a shame not to say that about everyone else. But that is actually why we find room for manoeuvre, so it is fully funded. However, as I said, this proposal is a sympathetic one and we would very much like to take it with us and discuss it in the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121447	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121449	Now I think it is going to be interesting, because does the Left believe that a proposal is no longer financed if it is pointed out that it should be financed through economic leeway? I think that is quite important to clarify. Because then it's a whole new ball game. That's a whole new way of thinking about it. Like the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, I have repeatedly heard that the Left has said that they will do something and take the money out of the economic space. Then the Left must use the argument that no, we do not agree that the billions should be spent on tax cuts, because we would rather spend them on public welfare. That is then a political position. But to challenge the fact that one refers to a particular way of financing what the Left itself often points out and then other parties must not refer to it so that it becomes somewhat double moral and somewhat hypocritical.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121547	Thank you. I shall not take this into account if it is hypocritical, because I do not think so myself when a fully funded financial law is put forward every year, and that is how we provide room for manoeuvre. It's not like it's looking at everyone else. It's about to sit down and do a hard job every year. Every year we do a huge amount of work on the Finance Act, which gives us a room for manoeuvre which we can dispose of for the rest of the year. That is also why we think the tax freeze is right, because it is a stable, balanced way of looking at how to create a room for manoeuvre in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121633	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121634	It was a long talk. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm whether it is valid to find the funding for a motion for a resolution through the economic scope, or whether it is not valid in the left to refer to it for funding? For then I would like to remind you of what the Left has just done about some car negotiations, where it was said that some funds would be taken to finance this tax change through economic leeway. And now they say that other parties must not do so. Only the Left has the right to refer funding to it. It is not something that is in the Finance Act, because we are talking about car taxation. Then drop the budget bill. This is a concrete motion for a resolution. But does the Left believe that there can be no more reference to the economic scope for funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121716	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121717	We believe that this can be done, and that is what we are doing on an ongoing basis, because we are helping to create room for manoeuvre. We are also helping to use the money from the room, because that is what we are doing when we put forward a fully funded financial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121732	Thank you. There is no one else to comment on, so we move on. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114121805	I cannot help but comment on the discussion that just took place on economic space, because I must also say that I am a little puzzled by the position of the Left. In other words, just a short time ago we had debates on electric cars, where the Left had a proposal that would cost 10 billion. kr. of the same room for manoeuvre. It was not something on which a financial bill had been proposed. It was the kind of money they just took into the negotiations, where they said that we could just spend 10 billion. kr. And then there is a proposal today, still a costly proposal, which then costs 3.7 billion. kr., but it is completely irresponsible to use the room as a source of funding. Of course it isn't. There is an economic space for which we can all make proposals. Then it is clear that there are different priorities, but it is not irresponsible to propose it. Well, back to the proposal. The proposal is, of course, about imposing on the government by the end of 2020 that is probably a little too late, but that can be resolved with an amendment if there is a majority vote in favour of the introduction of the full right to deduct VAT for professional restaurant visits. The background is, of course, that there are a great many professions here in the covid-19 crisis that have been hit very hard, and in particular, it has to be said that the catering industry has been hit extra hard. They have been hit quite heavily by decommissioning, but also just by less activity in the business world. So this proposal is about raising what you can deduct from the VAT bill from the 25%. up to 100%. If you as a company spend 100 DKK. On a restaurant, you can draw 25%. From now on, it would be possible to deduct the entire amount from VAT. I would also like to mention something that has not been so much a part of the discussion. Actually, there's also a bureaucratic advantage in doing this. Because today it is the case that if you go to a hotel and have the restaurant bill included in it, then there is a job for the company to have to split up those things, because the restaurant visit is only 25%. VAT deduction, but the hotel then has a higher rate. So it also gives a lot of bureaucracy out there in companies because they have to sit and split up bills. You don't have to do that with this. But we cannot avoid the fact that it is also a very expensive proposal which costs more than this 3 billion. kr. So I would actually think that you could make some kind of compromise, because after all, a lot of targeted corona packages or corona measures are being made in these times. So couldn't you just start by doing it for 2021 or maybe bring 2022? Because I actually think it's a well-targeted approach for one of the industries that has the hardest time in this time, and it's the catering industry. So my presentation and a conclusion about it from the Danish People's Party is that we actually think it is really good and that you could then just do it for a number of years. Then you could always evaluate whether it has had these challenges in relation to private consumption, which is part of the discussion. I agree with the Liberal Alliance that there might well be some doubt as to whether this would be the case, i.e. whether people would go out and eat every night with customers at will, because I do not think that would be the case. But we can't get around the fact that it's the evaluation from the Ministry. But if you were in favour of this compromise and said that it applies to a year or two, then you could then also evaluate whether there are any side effects on it. In fact, we think that this is a good proposal made by the Liberal Alliance, which can be very targeted at one of the sectors most affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114122113	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. We go for despriting on to Mrs Kathrine Oldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114122134	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Liberal Alliance for the proposal. We naturally share, like the other parties in the Folketing, the concern about the survival of the catering industry here during the corona crisis and the experience industry as a whole. That is why, together with the government and the other supporting parties and other parties of the Folketing, we have also adopted aid packages which include: a gift certificate is included, which you as a citizen are free to use on restaurant visits, if you want to. In addition, the holiday money also comes out to Easter • the last lump of holiday money, which you also have the opportunity to use to go out and eat. But right now you can't go out and eat at all, because right now the restaurants are shut down, employees have returned, and it's not at all certain that there are business dinners on the program in various companies, so we might not think, in terms of how we can see various restrictions being imposed and withdrawn, and how we are constantly taking a step back and forth and out of various restrictions, that exactly this proposal hits the spot. There is perhaps more relevance to a gift certificate, which is one of the measures we have adopted for 750 million. kr. By the way. So it's not like the government, the support parties and the other parties of the Folketing don't care about this industry. We've just figured out how to maybe try to kill more flies with one stone. In addition, of course, there is a bill of 3.7 billion. kr., and even for the Left, this bill got too big. I would like to acknowledge that, in spite of everything, the previous government party also thinks that when right is right, this might be a little too expensive. So thank you for that. We would just like to end by thanking the Liberal Alliance for the proposal. We are signing; of course the intention is entirely in order, but we cannot see ourselves in this proposal, nor can we see, just as the Minister said, how it should be able to bear on the long track. There is, of course, a permanent increase in VAT which, in the context of the European Union, will also mean that this is not just about something that includes the Corona period. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114122417	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114122423	It is true, of course, that it costs the Treasury some money if you abolish this rule that there is only 25%. VAT relief on these business-related expenditures. The Treasury would also get a lot of money if there were only 25%. VAT relief on the purchase by companies of pens or of computers or office chairs, but that is not an argument for it to be so. Apparently there is such a high level of private consumption that 75%. It is simply for its own private pleasure. It is only the 25% that is related to actual business-related expenditure. Does the Radical Left agree that it is the case that when you go to a lunch meeting with a customer or eat at a staff seminar, it is 75% of what you do for your own private pleasure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114122528	I can, of course, hear from the rapporteur's earlier speeches here and his question to the other rapporteurs that the rapporteur is also trying to lift this up to a general discussion on differentiated VAT on restaurant visits and on the competition problem with our neighbouring countries. But we also see at various restaurants and conference centers that we in Denmark actually get many visits from abroad, where foreign companies and public bodies use us, because then there is something else that attracts them here. So it is not the case that we see a huge amount of what to say about the exodus of companies that send their employees elsewhere. We in the Radical Left are simply not ready to take that step, so I really think that we should keep the discussion where the proposal has gone, namely that this is a boost in the Corona context, and in this context we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114122634	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114122636	No, this has nothing to do with differentiated VAT. This has something to do with the fact that there is a differentiation in companies' VAT expenditure, where the norm is that companies have full VAT relief on their VAT expenditure. Then there is the exception for restaurant visits, which are business related. There's only 25%. VAT relief. Then the argument of the tax minister is that it is because it is private consumption. Apparently, it is 75% when you sit and have lunch with a customer or eat a lunch during a staff seminar, for your own private pleasure. My question is this: does the Radical Left agree that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114122719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114122720	Yes, we are. It is a Danish practice that has been rolled out for years, and we support it. We are not really interested in going out and saying that we are taking VAT on business dinners into a corona context, as I have also explained. It is simply too expensive and we are not ready to allocate 3.7 billion. kr. from the room for manoeuvre to the project. So the Liberal Alliance must try to find its mandates elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114122752	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments on Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge from the Socialist People's Party when the alcohol is finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114122808	After all, the SF fully shares the interest and concern about how things are going in various needy professions, including the catering industry. So what this is all about is spending the money as wisely as possible and spending it at the right time. So we don't think this proposal hits the spot. After all, we are in a process in which, for good reason, a number of initiatives have been initiated in relation to both restaurants and the experience economy in general. In fact, I believe that many of them would find it sad to refer to the aid packages that have been adopted as charity. I certainly believe that these companies think it is fair and that it is good and that they see it as a real help and not as a handout, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen referred to it as. So the very intention of creating demand and creating life in our restaurants and in the experience economy, we can fully support it, but that here we will help the business and catering industry through the corona crisis by introducing a right of deduction on business meals and lifting it beyond the 25% that is today, we do not think that is the way. But we do agree that we must constantly look into ways of helping the catering industry, especially now that we can apparently see a longer period ahead of us with high levels of infection. However, we do not think that this proposal should be adopted, as it will go in and collide, I think, with the other targeted aid packages that have been made. That you need a whole, 3.7 billion. kr. We also think that the scope for this has been missed. Perhaps it is just me who has not fully understood it, but as far as I can understand, it is not a proposal for anything temporary, but actually for something permanent, and in that way it will burden the economy. Compared to what I think we achieve by it, it is out of proportion. With the various opportunities we have to help different industries get started, we do not think that such a permanent arrangement • if that is what lies in it • is the best way to do it. But again: We are very open about how to discuss various measures to keep the industries in need alive, including the catering industry and the experience economy. Against this background, we cannot support the proposal, but, as such, we have an interest and concern in how we maintain both companies and jobs. We are always very happy to take part in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123054	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123058	I just want to know if SF has proposed anything here in recent years that will help the catering industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123113	The gift card is an example. It is not one we have proposed, but we are certainly in favour of it. But if you can really find 3.7 billion. kr. For this, I can also get moved by my image of other parties, for I often see the Liberal Alliance and sometimes the Conservatives at least Liberal Alliance as a raw liberalist party with a very small freeze-dried social heart. But it is evidently sometimes being thawed. That's what I've been through today. It could then be suggested that the 3.7 billion. kr. would be used to raise the daily allowance and remove the ceiling on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123150	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123152	It was a very exciting speech, but I do not know exactly what it had to do with my question. I was just asking what SF would do to strengthen these industries. Why does SF think it is reasonable that it should cost so much more to go to a restaurant in Denmark than it should in Sweden? After all, they are in competition with other countries, and this is both in relation to attracting tourists and as a destination for conferences, for example. There it is a major disadvantage that it is so much more expensive to go to a restaurant in Denmark than it is in other countries. So SF won't help strengthen this industry that's having such a hard time right now? It is also in the slightly longer term and in a different way that is not just about giving gift cards to people to go to closed restaurants, but also about strengthening their competitiveness in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123251	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123252	My initial answer should be understood as meaning that I certainly think that there is good reason to offer certain groups of people, including unemployed people and recipients of cash benefits, the opportunity to expand their consumption so that they might also one day try to go to a restaurant. That's the way, sir. Rasmus Jarlov should understand my answer. But it is actually interesting if you really think that the Danish restaurant industry and those places where you can spend the weekend what are they called? If that is true, how can this proposal cost 3.7 billion? kr.? Both can't be right. If this is how we see them coming out, how can it cost money? Then you'd have to make money. So there's an inner contradiction there. To what else the SF wants to do for the catering industry: we are participating in all the discussions and negotiations surrounding the help packages for the industry, and we are also happy to take part in further discussions on this, because it is quite obvious that there are some people here who are very needy, and it is both the business owners and the employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123350	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123421	I can start with the conclusion: the Enhedslisten is not voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. We would like to help industries that are in a mess, and we are already doing so to a large extent with aid packages which provide both compensation for wages and compensation for fixed costs. And should there be a need to return to help packages, including in relation to particularly hard-hit industries, we are also always willing to discuss it, both with the industries that have been affected and with other parties in the Folketing. Perhaps I can say to both the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party today that perhaps a thank you can be sent by the two parties to the Enhedslisten in connection with today's debate, because it was of course very important for us that, in connection with the stimulus packages adopted under the Finance Act, we actually received support for the experience industry through. I am thinking in particular of the two elements which concern it. There was targeted funding in 2021 • it is there for civil society interventions in relation to vulnerable and vulnerable citizens, where you can get a gift card for experiences, including for restaurant visits. That was 250 million. kr. that was set aside for it. Then, in 2021, funds have also been allocated for the implementation of activities in the social and elderly sectors, which can counteract loneliness and isolation, and which can also support industries in the experience industry, and here we are talking about a further 250 million. kr. These are two initiatives that were essential to the Enhedslisten during the negotiations. But we have to admit that the Liberal Alliance's proposal here is completely past the dial. In relation to the current situation, in other words as crisis management, the problem for the restaurants is not VAT, but it is that there are restrictions on how long one must have open and when one must have open, and in that case how many people must be present at the dining place. The removal of VAT from consumption for professional purposes will have a very limited and actually marginal effect if any. Then the Liberal Alliance thinks that we should eliminate VAT, Corona or not. So it's gonna cost this 3.7 billion. kr. It has to be taken from the room, that is. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. I have to say that it seems to be a rather bizarre priority that it should be the educators in kindergarten; it should be the sosu assistants in nursing homes; it should be the nurses in hospitals who have to pay for the director to go on restaurant visits when there are business dinners. Of course, it will not be with the votes of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123723	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123727	The Council room is, of course, money that is present because the economy is growing and they can then be spent on more spending on it, as Mr. Rune Lund calls welfare, which is just equal to more public employees, or to e.g. to lighten some taxes. Well, it's not like you're taking it, but it's true that mr. Rune Lund and Enhedslisten would like to spend more money on more public employees, and if you do not have the money at your disposal, you have to settle for the public employees who are today. I should like to comment on this because it does not help anything in a situation of forced closure. That is absolutely right, and it is the same for gift cards and our proposal here. It doesn't help when the restaurants are forcibly closed, but it gives an optimistic view of how much money you can make in the future, and thus a desire to be in the future as well, instead of closing your business. And it gives more credit to those who have to borrow a money here during the crisis, etc., because they can see that there is money in the future. So that is what is meant by it, and in this respect our proposal does not differ from the one supported by Enhedslisten on a gift certificate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123839	That's right. And it can also be said that a structural change in the tax system all the other things being equal has a cyclical effect to some extent. Well, that's it, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says. That is a fact; I think we can agree on that. It is also true that there is a discussion about what the room for manoeuvre should be used for. And it has to be said, and it is almost a praise to the Liberal Alliance, that from 2015 to 2019 tax reliefs were agreed where the lasting effect is 21.7 billion. kr., i.e. a cost of 21.7 billion. kr. Every year, money that could have been used to restore our welfare and that could have been used to finance the green transition. It is, of course, a picture of how the bourgeois people have pursued economic policy: that they have burned the room for tax cuts, and then they have tried to deceive the people and everyone else that there was enough money for welfare. And we can just see that there isn't that there hasn't been and that it has been taljonglering. But it is quite right that we can choose to use the scope for tax reductions; that is just not the policy of Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123942	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114123945	The rapporteur mentions it there with the fact that if you want to spend 3 billion. kr. On this, it's gonna have to take care of nurses and other things. One could also choose to cut the consumption of external consultants by one third; then a financing would also have been found. So it is fair enough if Enhedslisten says that you will not spend money on it, but it is not fair that you should always mention that it should be nurses and everything else that is affected. Here it will then be private companies that spend less money and order fewer things for; it is external consultants and not people who are employed in the public sector. So you could take the money from them and their highly paid benefits and then lower the tax on the other. It is always said that nurses should suffer, but you could finance it somewhere else if you wanted to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124028	I think that is actually a very interesting discussion. Because if it is up to us in the Enhedslisten, we actually want to finance the initiatives crown by crown, even when we are making finance laws. And we want, among other things. to do so by rolling back tax relief, which we have voted against, with which we very much disagree, and which, among other things, we have voted against. is the figure of 21.7 billion. kr., which is the annual cost of what was agreed in 2015-2019. The fact is that the room for manoeuvre, which is the theoretical money at our disposal, is a calculation when we sit and negotiate the Finance Act to a certain extent in this calculation, has also been provided by the inequality-building reforms, many of which have been made. And there we can only note that an evaluation has not yet been carried out, which actually demonstrates that the reforms have the effect that the accounting machine of the Ministry of Finance assumed they had when the agreements were concluded. We can see that, to the extent that studies have been carried out, they are very uncertain. Among other things: the cost of stopping retirement age has just been reduced by two-digit billions in the calculations, i.e. if the retirement age is to end at 68 years. So there is a great deal of uncertainty about the room for manoeuvre and, to the extent that it is used at all, it must be spent on welfare. That is our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124143	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124147	Yes, or perhaps it is even more responsible that the money is spent on either being set aside for debt reduction or going back to the citizens. If they are spent on welfare, yes, you can say that it is good that you have spent them, but it is still money that is consumed before you know you have them. So the most financially responsible thing would be not to spend the money before you know they got into the box, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124208	That is why we are proposing a funding crown for crown. But I have to say that in relation to that, Denmark has a very small debt. We have a very, very healthy and strong economy. It would be a complete hole in the head if we had not made debt absorption right now in the current economic situation, precisely to keep our hands on employment and save thousands of jobs and businesses. And I don't know if that's it, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen refers to it then it is not. Because that's really smart. And then it is clear that there is debt, even if it is at negative interest rates, and in this way we make money from borrowing money at the moment, that then the debt must also be repaid. And that is why it is wiser to find the money crown by rolling back tax relief, which the richest have received richly over the past many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124252	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. There are plenty of rapporteurs. It's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, there's next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124323	It is the case in Denmark that when it comes to restaurant visits, we have the special rule that you cannot deduct the entire VAT as a company, but that you can only deduct a quarter of the VAT if you go to a restaurant. That is a very strange rule, and we are opposed to that rule. We have proposed several times that it should be abolished. We are opposed to it for two reasons. We are, firstly, because it is damaging Danish restaurants and the competitiveness of Danish companies. And we regard going to a restaurant as a necessity in relation to a great many tasks that are also carried out in the private sector. It is not some luxury item, and if you use it as some kind of gift for your employees, it is, of course, fully taxable for the employees; that is to be considered as extra pay. However, as long as it is a matter of going to a restaurant in its business service to carry out its tasks, it must be able to be deducted from like other expenses. The second reason we're against this special rule is that it's also accounting is quite difficult. It's another one of these little rules that was invented by the Danish Parliament in its great wisdom, which makes it very difficult to keep accounts in companies. I would say that the rule itself may well be overcome, but it is just another superfluous rule that makes things difficult. When I started my business up for approx. Eight years ago, I didn't know that rule. I assumed that when you had some expenditure, you could deduct it; that was the basic principle. And then I was told by my accountant that there is this weird special rule, and then we should sit and settle it, and I spent a lot of money on it in accounting bills, that is to say to figure out how to clean it up and change our VAT accounts. It is not logical for there to be a special rule of this type, and that is why we support the abolition of it and the deduction of VAT, just as it can for all other purchases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124545	Thank you. There are no comments, so that's why it's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. And you should also be nice to drink off. That's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124606	Thank you. With regard to VAT accounts and VAT taxation, there is simply something that needs to be cleaned up; that is all that can be said. When you've been out in the private sector and as a self-employed person, you know how troublesome this is, and perhaps especially for small businesses, where it's quite a burden if they need an accountant to sit and count on it here in relation to their overall budget and things like that. In order to illustrate how foolish this is, I might as well say it, as it is, there is, for example, when serving food within the company at meetings, 100 per cent deduction, and that is also 25% VAT deduction. If the employees get an apple outside the meeting, there is no deduction for it. As far as coffee and tea are concerned, if you have a meeting inside the company where you drink tea and coffee for the meeting, 100 per cent are deducted; if you tell the employees that they can take a cup of coffee or a cup of tea when they work and they have just left the meeting, there is no deduction on that. That is something where, when they sit out there looking at it, they can say: what is going on? There we therefore have a duty to clean up these things which place unnecessary burdens on business, and here there is even a tax reduction, which only makes us even more happy in New Citizens. So, of course, we can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124742	Thank you. There are no comments, and then we go to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114124754	Restaurants and restaurants in Denmark are seriously threatened with earnings during these weeks and months, when they are forced out. In the past, they have been subject to restrictions which meant that they had to close at a certain time, now they are completely closed, and we must not eat there at all, and we cannot do much about that in the present situation. But you can give them some optimism about the future, you can give their creditors some optimism about the future by adopting legislation that will enable you to see in the future that money can be made and that you can also make more money than you have been able to make in the past. This proposal has been born in the light that we are saying: this special rule we have about companies not being allowed to lift 100 per cent. (ii) the abolition of their VAT costs when they consume employees in a professional context. It is the case today that only 25% can be lifted. This is a special rule because, with regard to all other VAT costs, which relate to running a company, it is a matter of having craftsmen visiting to fix the building in which you operate, buying an office chair, buying a pen, buying a computer, buying cleaning externally, etc. But if you are a type of company where employees sometimes have to have a lunch with customers or where you want to send employees to business seminars, you can only lift 25%. That is a strange thing to say about the cost of the food. We have got the explanation here from the tax minister, and it is true that that is the explanation, and therefore thanks to the tax minister for telling it honestly, even though it is a really bad explanation, and then we can shoot at the bad explanation. Sometimes, when the real explanation is bad, people just talk around, but the tax minister admits completely and completely that the only explanation he has for this is one of the poor explanations, and I think that is welcome for the open and transparent debate. The bad explanation is that when they sit out there with the customer and eat a lunch or a staff seminar etc., there is a high degree of private pleasure in eating there, and you can recognize that, just as it is a private pleasure that there is warmth in the office. It's a private pleasure to turn down the heat at home while you're at home, and it's a private pleasure to have some food when you're working while you should eat. But that's a really bad explanation. That is an incredibly bad explanation, and even if you took it for good goods, no one imagines that when you sit there in a work context and need some food, 75% is food. of the good for the food simply something that is related to one's private pleasures, while it is only 25% that is related to something business-related. Surely, no human can take for good. If you had that view, you had to say: well, it may be that 25%. of the good is a private good, which is associated with the fact that you get something better food than you would otherwise bike together. But that 75%. I mean, if you're supposed to be a private good, you're so fucked up that everyone can hear it, and that's why it's to the credit of the tax minister that he openly admits how foolish this is so that everyone can understand it. We have a problem with companies placing their business-related restaurant visits abroad being reimbursed 100 per cent. of their VAT expenditure from the foreign State, if the rule in the foreign State is that there is full VAT relief. You can get a refund of 100%. of the Swedish State or the German State, for the rule is that there is 100 per cent in Sweden and Germany. VAT relief for restaurant visits, and therefore Danish companies can be reimbursed 100 per cent. of VAT expenditure in these countries. But if they leave their visits at home, they can only get a 25 per cent increase. of the VAT expenditure, and it is of course a poor state to be in, and the only explanation that then makes some sense is that there is a large majority of parties in Denmark who cannot get enough tax money. Because they cannot get enough public expenditure, and that is why every source of tax must be pushed to its limit so that we can have that money in the treasury so that we can get all the public expenditure that we need to take care of the voters whom we want to give some more money from public funds so that we can be re-elected. This is how the simple raison d'être of the left and the Social Democracy of the Folketing: you vote for us, and in return you get some money from us, some other people's money. It sets some limits on how much you can lower illogical and bad taxes and taxes, that you always have that insatiable need to buy some new voters with the money you charge in taxes. I welcome the fact that we have support for the proposal in part, that is to say, very partially, I would say, from the Left, completely from the Conservative and completely from the New Civil and also partly from the Danish People's Party. This is a good sign for a time when we will again be in the majority, because then we will be able to do something about this, and we in the Liberal Alliance will certainly press for it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114125406	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114125419	The debate is open, and it is the Minister of Justice first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114125454	Let me start with the examination of the proposal by saying that the government fully agrees with the proposers that it is important to limit the use of penalty rebates due to the long duration of proceedings as much as possible. It is quite unreasonable that victims can only find that criminal proceedings are dragging on for months or perhaps years, and then may find that the perpetrator has his sentence reduced for that reason. The Danish sense of justice suffers. That is why I am also pleased with the multi-annual agreement for the police and prosecutor's office, which was concluded by a large majority in the Folketing before Christmas. Because with the multi-year agreement, of which the party of the proposers is also a part, we have just agreed to amend the penal code, which limits the use of penalty rebates as far as possible, as well as within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. However, the fact that the government cannot support the complete abolition of the penalty debate is due to the fact that this is not possible within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights, unless at the same time another form of compensation is introduced for a long period of time. This then means that the perpetrator would have to be compensated in a different way, for example. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to take a decision on this matter in the near future? After all, the effort to limit the use of penalty rebates is a two-legged initiative, because, in addition to the rules on penalty rebates, it is particularly the long duration of proceedings that is the problem here, and here too I am very pleased that, as part of the multiannual police and prosecution agreement, we agree on the need to reduce the length of proceedings by the police, the prosecution and, for that matter, also the courts, which are not, of course, a direct part of the agreement. As we reduce processing times, there will, by its very nature, also be less need for penalty rebates. So to conclude: there should be no doubt that the government is behind the victim and the general sense of justice, including in this case. The use of penalty rebates due to long processing time is an unsuitability and must be limited. However, it has been agreed, with the support of a broad majority in the Folketing, that the government should continue to work to limit the use of penalty rebates within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. That is why the government cannot support the proposal for complete abolition. The government will, on the other hand, continue to work on this matter and, later this year, will submit a legislative proposal on this matter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114125740	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114125744	I would like to thank the Minister for what I think is clear speech here It cannot be right for us to have a situation in which, because of the length of our proceedings, we have to deal with a situation in which some victims have to experience a cut for the criminal, for the criminal. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Justice something when the Minister says that the government will make a proposal this year. Can we get this a little closer? Unfortunately, we have this coronatide and we have received a letter from the Prime Minister that there is some legislation that we would like to postpone. But I would like the government to come up with a proposal relatively quickly, because it can be imagined that to this day, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow there will be cases where the criminal gets a discount because there is a long processing period. So the sooner we can do something, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114125839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114125841	But it's a wish that I share. We are currently in the Ministry in the process of drawing up a plan for the implementation of the overall agreement, which is quite comprehensive with a great many elements and with a description of when we can implement the various parts. And there is one of the advantages of being a party to the agreement, after all, that you also have an influence on how that plan is then executed. So I share the wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114125909	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114125911	Of course, we would like to take part in that, and so I would just like to ask: can we make it before the Folketing had to go on a summer holiday at some point? After all, it takes these three readings, and it has to be adopted in the Folketing. Otherwise, I would suggest that the government support this resolution purely. Then we can act relatively quickly, because then there will be a clear demand for the government to do something quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114125940	After all, the proposal goes beyond what we can support. What we have agreed in common is that this should be done within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. And that is really where we come across the proposal. Then my commitment to the matter will not depend on the fact that the Folketing has told me that we must carry it out; it will be dependent on loyally fulfilling the agreement that we have concluded together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130009	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Justice, and then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130035	Thank you. It is quite unreasonable when, as a victim, the case is dragging on and the perpetrator who has been responsible for the crime ends up receiving a milder sentence. This, of course, brings to light the common perception we must have of our community of law. That is why I am glad, as the Minister for Justice also mentioned, that we are working with, among others. The Danish People's Party has made a very good deal, a new multi-year agreement, for the Danish police and the prosecution, which among other things. means that we will do what we can to reduce the use of penalty rebates, but, of course, within the framework set out by the Minister of Justice. That is why I actually think that agreement may have overtaken this resolution a little, but I fully acknowledge the need to pay close attention to it here and share the joy that we can do something about it together. But we cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled by, among others. the reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130137	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130140	Thank you. I am really glad that the government and the Socialists will broadly support this proposal, but I must also say that if we can decide in the Danish People's Party, then we will implement the proposal that is on the table here, because for us to see we must be masters of our own house. We must be able to decide for ourselves whether we think it is reasonable or unreasonable to give a discount to criminals who then receive a lower penalty because there is a long time to deal with them. So, I'd like to see Mr. Knox... Jeppe Bruus could tell me why these conventions are so important. Should they stand in the way of us doing something that I think most Danes will think is right, namely that there is no discount for criminals, even if there is a long processing period?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130233	I can, in fact, share a long way along the way the frustration over the conventions and, in particular, some of the conventions which have many years on the back, and in which people today think: would they have done it like this today? That would probably not be the case, and that is why I think it is quite fair and legitimate that we can agree to perhaps try to amend some of those conventions. Then we can disagree on whether we should play within the framework of the conventions, even though we think some of them are fatigue and wrong. There is our basic view that the Danes and Denmark are all profiting from the fact that we have some international ground rules that we work within, and then we are ready to try to look at changing that where it doesn't make sense. There may well be cases where a perpetrator actually does everything he can to speed up a case and comes to judgment, yet there is absolutely no guilt and where there is a victim who may not, in the usual sense, have but of the case where one can talk about it. But in the general picture, it doesn't make much sense that when you've been exposed to a crime and there's a perpetrator, they get a discount.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130337	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130338	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, will there not be a time when the Socialists will also see that the disadvantages of the conventions are now so great that we simply have to say no? I'm thinking that we have some criminals doing crime. There is a long process time, and then they get a discount because of the conventions. - Sir... Jeppe Bruus doesn't see that something is wrong? We also have gang members, as the Socialists say to us here in the Folketing we cannot be allowed to expel because there are some conventions that say that we must not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130415	I do not think we can be accused of having a lack of will or the courage to expel people, but it is quite true that we may have a different view of whether we have to comply with those conventions. Then we can agree with the view that some of them are untimely or outdated or directly wrong in the way they work. That is why we must also work to amend the conventions. And then we have to be honest and say that this is not an easy and quick solution. We may share the frustration, but we may look differently at the appropriateness of keeping them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130452	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130455	Thank you. I just want to ask whether it is the rapporteur's view that you have to step out of these conventions completely in order to be able to change it in this area, or whether you can actually adjust it in this area, so you say that exactly in this area you go in and do something, and that doesn't mean that you generally get out of these conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130516-2	In fact, I do not think I have any opinion on that. I mean, I'm just not sharp enough to have an opinion on it as such. I lean on the advice and legal assessment that is of it. And if there are any opportunities to act within the conventions, that's fine with me. But my general view is that, overall, we are best served by acting within an international society which is also governed by conventions, knowing that, of course, there are sometimes some of the conventions that we seem to be untimely and directly contrary to what we really want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130551	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130552	Yes, but now it's often the case that this convention thing isn't all or nothing. There are some places where some countries say: Ah, but right in this area there's some of what we don't want. And they can easily do so without massive pressure from the rest of the world to get them out of all these conventions. So if it were actually in this area that one could say that one would apply to make some changes and change it, so that there was no reduction in punishment, but that at the same time one would not be forced to step out of it all, would that be something that the Social Democrats were interested in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130626-2	It's gonna be a little theoretical. Well, you can say that if you participate in a football tournament and you then think that in some of those games it might be exciting to send a man more on the field, and the opponents do not complain because they think they are better, then you violate the rules you have adopted. That doesn't mean that all the rules are perfect or good. But it's kind of thoughtful. In other words, if there are opportunities to act within the conventions, if there is an opportunity to work to adjust them, then that is fine with me. But compared to the other thing, it's such a rooftop self-table, that's not exactly how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130700	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Inger Løjberg. I'm gonna have to get a little booze.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114130723	In Denmark, it is the case that you are innocent until proven guilty. Everyone has the right to a proper handling of their case, and this also means that such a case should not take more time than is most necessary. But, of course, if you're convicted, you have to serve your sentence. That's true, no matter how long it takes before you get caught or before you get convicted. An action is neither made worse nor improved by its being discovered and punished sooner or later. After all, the damage and nuisances that have been caused to other people by their actions do not go away because criminal proceedings have been delayed. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, which we are discussing here today, refers to a case of an attack in which the victim had his nose broken, had tooth damage and a concussion. The perpetrator, previously convicted, was sentenced to three months in prison and had to pay compensation of 5,000 kroner. for the damage he had caused to the victim. From the victim's reporting of the crime to the conviction, it took 532 days, about a year and a half. Because the case had taken so long to deal with, the court decided that the criminal should avoid serving his sentence in a prison. He also didn't have to pay compensation. What if it hadn't been 532 days, but 132 days instead? Did the perp have to serve the sentence? Can it really be true if one were to be punished according to whether one landed at the top or at the bottom of the pile of cases? Can it be right that a victim who has suffered tooth damage and other genes should not receive compensation from his attacker for the same reason? Frankly, it violates the sense of justice that criminals can go free from punishment by chance like this. Frankly, I doubt that the punishment will have the same preventive effect if you are not punished in a case like this. That is why we in the Left support the restriction of the use of penalty rebates as far as possible. After all, we saw that matters were dealt with so quickly that they were not discussed at all. Now I understand that the Minister for Justice has promised clarification of the possibilities within the framework of the conventions, and we look forward to hearing the conclusions, which is why we are also looking forward to discussing this proposal further in the Legal Affairs Committee. Because there's good reason to have this discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131031	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131033	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur is doing it in the balanced way she is doing it today, even though it has been a rather wild day. Having said that, however, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mrs Inger Løbberg, whether she agrees that the wish that we have expressed here today by the Danish People's Party must be met so that we can adopt legislation before Parliament has to go on summer holidays. After all, we have people out there who are plagued by criminals having committed crime, who have been given a prison sentence at some point, and who then get a discount because there is a long time to deal with them. So the sooner we can do something about it, the better, so I just want to hear Mrs Inger Løjberg on the Left agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131123-2	We would very much like to see clarification, including on the legal subtleties, so to speak, as the Minister has already said. Having said that, there is no doubt that a matter such as that put forward here in the motion for a resolution itself and used as an example is one of the things that makes an impression, and it must simply also mean that many people experience that their sense of justice is being violated. We must also say, I think, that there is another side to this coin, and that is that sometimes the authorities are going to drag these matters out, and we cannot be familiar with that either. In my opinion, neither one nor the other can be known. So yes: we would very much like clarification, and we would also like to see the use of penalty rebates restricted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131222	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131223	I am very glad we look at that in the same way, and then we just hope that the common pressure can mean that the Minister for Justice will get something done here in the Folketing. It will then take a first, second and third reading before we go on summer holidays in the Folketing, and it should be possible if two major parties press. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131243	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left and then to turn to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131331	Thank you for the floor. If you have committed crime, you must have a hard and the right punishment for it. That is why it is not funny once the criminal process has begun, when you are suspected or accused, with interrogations and everything that comes with it; it is not very funny, nor should it be very funny. This thing about using the word penalty discount, this debate we're having, it's kind of insane, because discounting is something you get in stores when you're selling a whole lot. It has little to do with reducing penalties, which is what we are really discussing today. Because if you are part of the judicial system, there are many other things in your everyday life that are not very funny with good reason if you as a suspect experience that you do not know whether you are convicted or not convicted. In other words, you are dragged through the judicial system through criminal proceedings, and in those cases where it then involves a very, very long process, it is also part of your punishment that you can go a long time without a judgment, with the pain associated with the fact that there is no clarification of it. That is why there is also an article in the European Convention on Human Rights which describes this very thing with a fair trial. And if you are to be dragged through the judicial system without getting the judgment that you have to have very quickly, it is right and proper that it affects and influences the punishment that you receive as a whole. This does not mean that it is not tough and it is not right, but it is important when you have a penalty that all the circumstances are included. This is among other things. In view of the fact that we are also referring to the European Convention on Human Rights in the police agreement that has just been concluded, we now have to see what this gives rise to, as the Minister has said, legislative proposals. But the Radical Left certainly does not support this resolution, but of course supports the police agreement that we have concluded, although it was not with our wish that we had to deal with it here, because the rules today are quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131606	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131606-2	I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard, and thank you for your speech: can it really be right that we put the conventions on the victims who are subjected to serious crime in Denmark and their best interests, and that the perpetrator then gets reduced punishment because he has been subjected to long trial? Can that really be true?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131627-2	When you are part of the judicial system because you have committed crime, it is going to be a long time waiting to get the final determination of your sentence also a penalty. Then a final sentence will be laid down later, but it is natural that, if the outcome of the judgment has for a long time been very uncertain, it will also be part of the way in which the judgment is put together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131655	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131655-2	But that's not what I asked. Well, I asked about the situation where a person, an innocent victim, gets knocked down on the street, is subjected to serious crime, gets his life paused and gets pulled through all sorts of things. It's something that happens from one second to the next, you might say. And then the Radical Left here tells the Danish Parliament that we will have to take account of that perpetrator because of some conventions and that he will have to have reduced punishment. Can the Radical Left not understand that there must be some victims out there who have a really bad taste in their mouths if that is really what is meant here at Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131738	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131738-2	I think it is quite right that we have conventions, including the European Convention on Human Rights, which describe having a fair trial, and that does not mean that we should show special consideration or something for those who have committed crime. But it is also a matter of paying special attention to the victims. So, the European Convention on Human Rights also takes account of the victims and that they should have a fair trial, so it is not a matter of the convention blocking the best interests of the victims. It also supports the best interests of the victims, and that is very good, and that is what belongs to the rule of law, in other words to ensure a fair trial.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131816	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114131834	In the SF, we cannot support this proposal. We have just landed a police settlement where we have given each other a handshake that we are looking at how we can work in this area, that is to say the penalty debate, which means that when the authorities slow down on the matter, we risk the perpetrator ending up with a cut on the penalty. That's why this proposal might seem a little untimely. It is not, of course, because as such I disagree with us having to look at it, but it comes, I think, inexorably shortly after we have concluded a police settlement and have actually agreed to do something about this. At the same time, I would say that the real problem here is that there has been a lack of resources from the police, the prosecutor and the courts. And that will probably be the case for a while, until the police settlement makes its impact. After all, one of the major areas of action in the police conciliation is to reduce the length of proceedings significantly. It will actually solve some of the challenges identified by the Danish People's Party. I would now like to say that I actually think it is important to have a look at this rule that you as a perpetrator have a right to pool the cases. This means that if you just constantly produce new cases in order to stay the group of existing cases, you can actually push the case before you so that it only comes to court a very long time later. Then you can just produce a new case, and then the whole old case complex and all the victims involved in it will have to wait for trial. TV 2 described a case of partner violence, stalking and harassment, where it took 8 years to convict a perpetrator who may have had 40 relationships. The worst part was that he was quite aware that he could just use this opportunity to produce new cases, because he said so in a phone call that was recorded to one of his ex-boyfriends. I think that is really reprehensible. There simply has to be some opportunity to draw a line in the sand something earlier. So I would say to the Danish People's Party that there is something to address, and so do we, because we have already agreed in the police settlement. So it won't be with SF's support for this proposal that we get started on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132111	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132113	I am, of course, a little sorry that the SF will not support the Danish People's Party's proposal directly and place the conventions above the legislation we have in Denmark. We believe that this will work for the benefit of the perpetrators, unfortunately. Having said that, however, I would like to ask the SF whether it will help to push for the proposal that will come from the government, that is to say what will come out of this pressure we are putting, and what is also in the police agreement, so that this proposal will come as soon as possible, that is to say before the summer, so that we can adopt legislation in this direction in Denmark, so that we help the victims first and foremost instead of the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132153	Yes, we now have it in SF to always be on the side of the victims, and we are always working for improvements. Nevertheless, we will be a little cautious just to say that we have to push for a very fast legislative proposal in this area by the Ministry of Justice. In these coronatides, I believe that there is much to be done in the Ministry of Justice, and I think that we should be careful not to say that there must be certain things that need to be rushed through. It is better that we get a good proposal and a well-worked proposal. But, well, at least I understand that the best thing would be if we could have helped the victims and we had never got into this situation, where we have seen this massive accumulation of cases in the courts and in the prosecution that we have right now. And this is, of course, because neither the police nor the courts have been invested in this area for a long time, and that is really where the dog is buried. So, unfortunately, it falls back a little on the politicians themselves, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132256	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132257	Well, of course the Danish People's Party is involved in taking into account not least the sick and the chronically ill elderly who are in danger of life because of the corona, and that we also have to ensure that the ministry can achieve the work tasks it has. But can one not say, and does the SF not agree with that, I would like to ask that in times when there may be long court proceedings, it is even more important that we in Denmark remove discounts for criminals who may arise because there is a long time to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132334	Well, I think you can say that there are a lot of things that are important. I do not want to push for certain legislative proposals to be implemented quickly. I think this needs to be well worked out. And in the SF we will not depart from the issue of conventions. We still have to take that into account. It is rights that protect us all, victims as well as perpetrators. I have also had a few sticks in the autumn, which I might also have liked to promote, and which could have helped some victims at an earlier stage. Nevertheless, it is not the case that I am saying that it should be in line in front of something else. I trust the Justice Department will take that when they get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132413	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we will proceed to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132423	Thank you. In May 2020, the Public Prosecutor's Office has presented an account of the practice of using the criminal law's means of reducing penalties, when the duration of proceedings has been unfairly long, which is precisely what this motion for a resolution is about. That explanation shows the length of the proceedings, which is, of course, the defendant's fault, which has not resulted in a reduction in penalties. The imposition of penalties is always an overall assessment of all the circumstances of criminal proceedings, and the penalty is therefore not automatically or tactfully reduced simply because a case has been dragging on for a long time. It's always the judge's specific assessment. In fact, we think that in the Enhedslisten is sensible. Nor do we think that there should be so much time in criminal proceedings that section 82 of the Criminal Code no. 13, on a reduction due to time consumption to be used. However, we probably do not entirely agree with the proposers here about why it is problematic when a case takes so long. For without having to put words into the mouths of the authors of the motion, one can see from the use of the word by the authors of the motion for a resolution that it is believed that the perpetrators will not be able to get away easily if their punishment is reduced; that it should be a gift for the defendant if their case is going on for years. I think that's the wrong place to focus, and Mr. Peter Skaarup has to correct me if it is the wrong opinion I have received from reading the motion for a resolution. However, I am quite convinced that no one is served by having criminal proceedings hanging over their heads for longer than is necessary. Most who are guilty of crime want to serve their sentence as soon as possible so that you can move on with your life. It can be a double penalty if one has to wait unnecessarily long for one's case to be settled, and it is, regardless of whether the duration of the proceedings is unfairly long before the case came, or whether a case has to go over because, for example, a prosecutor does not know whether to instruct the witnesses before they have to make a statement. When you have criminal proceedings hanging over your head, it can affect your opportunities for jobs, education, housing, family life etc., and therefore it is extremely important that the criminal process does not take too long so that the perpetrators can be resocialised in society as soon as possible and hopefully put their criminal course behind them. So far, we have agreed in the police settlement that we have to look at these things, and of course we are on target for this in the Enhedslisten. I take note of the fact that the agreement clearly states that it must be within the framework of the Convention on Human Rights. This seems to us in the Enhedslisten to be extremely sensible, just as I also think it is extremely reasonable that we should look at the processing times, which I am convinced will mean shorter procedures in general. The Enhedslisten cannot support this motion for a resolution, I should perhaps also like to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132738	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132740	I think that Mrs Lund's speech gave rise to some considerations. I am of the clear opinion, and it is also the Danish People's Party that there are some who speculate in obtaining discounts in relation to their punishment. And it is actually also very natural that there are some criminals who do so, if you can see with your lawyer that it will actually be possible to reduce your sentence if you try to delay your case in various ways, or if you have committed something more that means that it can delay the case, then it is very humane and very natural that you will then take advantage of it. Nor should we think differently from the fact that criminals have lawyers at their disposal to help them find out how to do this in the best possible way. So I do not really understand why Mrs Rosa Lund is trying to suspicious that view on our part, because I think it is perfectly logical and natural that this will be the case. And the question is just whether we will allow it, and there I hope that Enhedslisten will help to remove all penalty rebates so that you do not get a discount because it takes a little longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132847	Well, actually, I think like Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard, that the word penalty discount is very misleading, that is to say, as if it is something that you buy or that way you go for. I am of the clear conviction that the defence lawyers in this country are, of course, doing what they can to defend their clients, but I am also of the clear conviction that it is not a pleasant situation to have criminal proceedings hanging over your head and that you want to clarify this as soon as possible. After all, you want to clarify as soon as possible whether you are convicted or innocent. That's why I'm not buying the argument, sir. Peter Skaarup, that one should thus speculate about having it postponed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132926	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114132927	It may well be that Mrs Rosa Lund and the Enhedslisten think this way, and I myself feel that I would not like to be part of a case. That will certainly be the case for me, yes, and it will probably be for Mrs Lund as well. But there may well be criminals who are so far out, and who are among the percentage of the population who could potentially think of committing crime over and over again, who think: that is very good, because now it can help to reduce my sentence or postpone my sentence. And it may be that you have such a relationship with your lawyer that you agree that this is the right way to go. Then the question is whether Enhedslisten will help to stop it, because we can do that here in the Folketing if we agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114133009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114133010	Well, I think that we are in the process of stopping at least some of the problems that Mr. Peter Skaarup highlights, because there is a broad consensus that we will look at the processing times. Sir. After all, Peter Skaarup and I have also discussed several times how we can ensure that the prosecution gets more resources, how we can ensure that we can reduce the length of proceedings, in general, throughout the prosecution. And that will mean, if we get through with it, that matters will take less time and therefore it will not be relevant to talk about penalty rebates. So I guess I don't share that concern either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114133045	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114133106	Thank you. The Danish People's Party proposes with this resolution to abolish section 82 of the Criminal Code, no. 13, which provides that the fact that criminal proceedings against a perpetrator are not settled within a reasonable period of time must be taken into account as a mitigating factor, without it being possible to blame the perpetrator. It is also a wish that we have made during the negotiations on the multiannual agreement for the police and the prosecution. In the Conservative People's Party, we are always on the side of the victim. This is linked to ensuring that the perpetrator gets a noticeable penalty that is in line with the criminal act committed against wrongdoers. This is absolutely crucial to the victim's sense of justice. That is why we welcome this debate and this motion for a resolution. We in the Conservative People's Party agree with the Danish People's Party that consideration of the perpetrator is not given too much weight in relation to the victim when it comes to the use of paragraph 82, no. 13. A reduction in sentence or possible impunity for the perpetrator should not be possible if this is due solely to a long duration of proceedings. For let us not forget that a long process is at least as much a nuisance to the victim. It should not be for the benefit of criminals that the length of proceedings before the courts is too long. There must be brief action to consistency; from notification to imprisonment. This proposal must, of course, be seen in the context of the funds that we have recently allocated to reduce the long processing times currently in the courts. With the latest agreement on the police and the state prosecutor's finances, we are at least getting a nice distance. We are firmly behind the agreement. However, we are a little concerned about whether it is possible to implement the proposal without it being contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. We would like to ask the government to turn all the stones around and be very, very sure that this is not contrary to the Convention on Human Rights. We hope that this can be done. We are very much in favour of removing the penalty debate, so it is a feed to try again to see whether the proposal can be implemented in accordance with the Convention on Human Rights. So support for the resolution with the reservation that we are asking the government to make an extra effort to implement it in accordance with the Convention on Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114133359	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114133409	Thank you. The normal court rapporteur could not be here today, so I have promised to fill in. It is simply too long before there is a conviction in Denmark, and we must have done so. When it takes so long and when it is such a long period when a victim has to wait for a perpetrator to be convicted, it is not reasonable, and it is not fair to the victim, that the victim should even wait for perhaps a year or several years for clarification as to whether the perpetrator is convicted. In addition, a victim can see that the perpetrator can escape cheaper because the procedure takes a long time. That is simply not fair and New Citizens support the Danish People's Party's proposal. We do not believe that conventions in general will stand in the way of this. We do not believe that, and if they do, they must never stand above the will of the Danish Parliament. On the other hand, some people are saying, what about the perpetrator in this? It is clear that it is also problematic for a potential accused that the processing times are long, especially for those who are declared innocent. It should be remembered that in court proceedings there are also some who are declared innocent. I also believe that we have an obligation to look at those who are not then convicted and those who take a long time, even if that is not their responsibility, but only because it is in the hands of the prosecutor and the police or anything else. We must see if there is anything that can be done to ensure their sense of justice, but it must never be at the expense of the victim. So we can support the Danish People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114133549	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, and then there are no more rapporteurs than the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114133607	Violence triggers a broken nose, tooth damage and concussion on the victim. The defendant has been convicted of violence in the past. For it is well known. Judgment: 3 months unconditional imprisonment and a claim for damages of 5,000 DKK. The defendant does not have the right to serve and pay the claim, as the duration of the proceedings has been too long. The court won't take into consideration the victim. This could have been the case in a judgment of a Danish court in one of the innumerable cases in which a perpetrator either achieves total impunity or has it significantly reduced, solely because society has spent too long on the proceedings. I think it's shameful. I think this is something we at Christiansborg have to do once and for all. After all, it is the so-called penalty rebate that we are talking about in this motion for a resolution, which the Danish People's Party has put forward to reduce the penalty, and in this case because there has been a long duration of proceedings. It is not fair for society, nor for the sense of justice, nor for the victims who have been unfairly treated and waited a long time for their case to be settled in the courts in this way. That is why the Danish People's Party tabled this proposal. We also hope to obtain a majority in favour of this, because of course we should not get a discount, because the crime committed can only be condemned after a long period of time by the courts. It can be said that the penalty is actually designed for the perpetrator, for it is obviously a consideration that some think should be taken to the perpetrator, after he himself as the perpetrator has chosen to commit crime, because the waiting time for the perpetrator is apparently greater than it is for the victim, who here sees his perpetrator leaving the courtroom without having to serve. That is to say, from the victim's perspective, society's receipt for a broken nose, for tooth damage, for a concussion, that the perpetrator should not serve his sentence solely for the reason that the perpetrator has waited a long time to receive the sentence that he himself has requested by committing violence. So there are some here who see it from the perpetrator's perspective. In the Danish People's Party, we would rather see the case from the victim than we would like to look at it from the perpetrator's side in this case. On the other hand, we must say that waiting for an unreasonable period of time for a decision for the victim is an even greater burden than it is for the perpetrator. Yeah, actually, it's such a burden that for the victim it can be experienced as an extra punishment. Not only must the victim wait a long time for a decision, but must also see that the perpetrator should not serve because the perpetrator is experiencing a long time of trial and a slow trial at all. That is simply not fair. We, as a society, cannot live with that. So in addition to the abolition of the penalty rebates here, we also need to have a look at the processing times. After all, it is not because it has not been a theme in the debates that have been about police relations, and I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for focusing on that. After all, it is a longer process, as the Minister has said, because it is also about restructuring, and it is about hiring more people throughout this chain of cases and assessments, which are taking place in different parts of our legal system. But right now we can take a step to ensure that justice is done, by abolishing these penalty rebates that are actually being experienced. So they are a good thing for the perpetrator and not for the victim, especially for the victim. It is actually very difficult, in fact almost impossible, to see what a victim who has waited unfairly long for a case to be settled should get out of court without the perpetrator getting the penalty that the perpetrator has earned, and it is only because it has taken a long time before the case could be closed. I simply cannot see that, on the contrary. It is in every possible way reprehensible that the victim suffers, and that is why the Danish People's Party has tabled this motion for a resolution. It is to abolish quite unreasonable penalties by looking at the victims rather than the perpetrator. Then the Minister of Justice and the Social Democrats' rapporteur have stated here during the debate whether we do not have any conventions that we must respect and that it is important for Denmark that we have these conventions. To this I have to say that this is just another example of something that has been cast in concrete for the Socialists and also other parties here in the Danish Parliament many, many years ago, apparently preventing us from doing the right thing. We see it in the expulsion cases where there are no arguments against exhibiting, it is said, but it sometimes ends up as an obstacle to conventions. For me, and for the Danish People's Party, we cannot continue to let the table of things that are bad about our association with these conventions get higher and higher, while the Social Democrats and others here in the Danish Parliament say that we still have to be away because the benefits are so all-over-shadowing and amazing and something like that. If we cannot expel people, gang criminals who have been criminals for years and are not Danish citizens, because of the conventions; if we cannot remove penalty rebates to the full to help the victims because of the conventions; if we cannot be allowed to ensure that young girls are not to marry old men, because of the conventions, then when does it stop? When does that end with those conventions? When are the advantages completely overshadowed by the disadvantages of the conventions? I have to say that we in the Danish People's Party have had enough, and this case shows with all due clarity that there is reason for us to have had enough. I would very much like to be convinced that these conventions are amazing, but I think they are old toads. They prevent us from applying common sense. They're preventing us from being masters of our own house. So why not get rid of them or change them, and why not do the only right thing in this case? It is to implement this motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party to remove the penalties for crime. I hope that you will think around the parties and back up this proposal. I think there's a lot of people out there outside these thick walls at Christiansborg just waiting for somebody to say off. We do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134401	Thank you. There are three who have asked for a brief comment, and the first is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134407	Now this is not a new phenomenon with increasing processing times. I have been looking at the figures, and they have actually been greatly increasing for really, very many years. Now we have a social democratic government with a left-wing parliamentary basis, so it is not certain that the major changes are taking place here, but before the elections we had a bourgeois government with the support of the Danish People's Party. Why didn't that happen there? Were there parties in that part of the Folketing that did not want to participate in this, or have no proposals been made? I think this is a good proposal, but the length of the proceedings was also there then, and the problem must have been just as great. So was it against a wall then by the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134456-2	I can guarantee you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen for this wish we have made many times in the Danish People's Party. But I can also guarantee Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen for the Secretary of the Danish Parliament to say that we have to be 90 mandates and that it is being talked up quite carefully when we have to make some changes here in the Danish Parliament. It's just the rules of the game, it's the rules of democracy that every single time we have to change something in the direction that we politicians think we should do, because of some very specific views we entered into politics, we have to use 90 mandates. Whether we get them in one way or another is what's exciting. Whether it is in one way or another that we are able to convince the others does not really matter. What is crucial is that we can convince them and that we can have the 90 mandates and we have not succeeded in doing so. But now, fortunately, we have a minister, and sometimes we also have to look forward, saying that we have to get rid of this and that we have to have shorter processing times, and then it's actually just to vote in favour of this proposal. So let's get this done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134605	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134606	Thank you. When I ask about it, it is because, before I came to Parliament, I thought that when politicians in here spoke to the citizens, they said one thing, but when they had to adopt something, it was a little different. So, for many years we have been listening to stories that criminal foreigners were to be expelled from Denmark, but when it comes to the matter, it does not happen. Because then there's something that doesn't add up, and then we can't do it. That is why I ask: is this another example of this? Because I have also heard from many who say that we should not keep our hands on the perpetrators, but when it comes down to it and we come into the Chamber here, the story is a little different from that given to the people out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134644	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is absolutely right that you experience a lot of bang talk and you experience politicians and even prime ministers saying fine things on TV 2 News and on Danish Radio, but when they come in here and have to press the red or green button, they just press the wrong button. There we need such things as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, such as Mrs Inger Løjberg, I also think who is fighting the fight, such as those who dare to say something when there are turned on cameras, but also press the right buttons in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134723	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134726	Thank you. I'm just going to follow up on the exchange that Mr. Peter Skaarup and I had earlier. All I have to do is pray, sir. Peter Skaarup of the Danish People's Party confirms that one can only get a reduction in punishment and a penalty rebate if it is something that is not one's own fault, i.e. that one cannot speculate on obtaining a penalty rebate if one like slows things down, and that we therefore help the victims best by generally reducing the duration of proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134757	Yes, and then one can always assess what is one's own fault or what kind of circumstances affect what happens in the legal proceedings, and it is always an assessment case in each situation. But we just have to recognise that there are people in our little country who are wondering about this and who are happy about it, and it's very human that you get a lower penalty because of some different circumstances. In the same way, there are some who are so fortunate that because they commit new crimes in connection with a case, the authorities and the courts say that the new case must be included in the old case, and in this way we can then delay things further. So I don't think anyone has anything to let each other hear here. In fact, I believe that this is an interaction which means that in the end it goes wrong and that you get a penalty rebate, and we cannot do much of that in addition to removing the penalty rebate, because then you cannot get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134908	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134909	Well, that's only good if we kind of agree that nobody has anything to let each other hear here. Yet, Mr. Peter Skaarup said you could be lucky. In other words, we must agree that one cannot reduce one's sentence by wondering how one can drag things out, because one can only reduce the penalty if it is not self-inflicted. That is why we cannot speculate about it. That's one thing. The other thing is, sir. Peter Skaarup is in and is tampering with some very fundamental principles of legal certainty when he says that one should have accumulated punishment, that is to say that only punishment should be imposed on punishment. It is quite fundamental in our legal system that we do not do that in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114134954-2	I do not know whether Mrs Rosa Lund has heard of lawyers who cannot attend at a particular time. I have. And that is why the matter is simply that what is going on in the courts is an interaction between the prosecution and the defence and thus the accused, and it is clear that there is some speculation that matters are dragging on, and there can also be speculation in that way that it may not be entirely clear that he is to blame for this. However, Mrs Lund and I may agree that there is a problem by continuing to drag matters off by not being able to meet or by, for example, not being able to meet. Not to show up. So I don't think you can judge this in every case. There are many different cases. But what can be done by the Danish Parliament at any rate is to abolish the penalty rebate, and we could just do that. I hope the Enhedslisten will support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114135053	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114135055	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. For Mr. Peter Skaarup has spent a great deal of time saying that the conventions should stand in the way of a whole lot, and there I just want to hear whether that means that the Danish People's Party does not believe that Article 6 of the European Convention on the Right to Justice of Human Rights should apply in Denmark. Is that the view of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114135120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114135121	No, we are in favour of fair trial, and we even believe that in Denmark, with our well-developed democracy, we are also in favour of justice, because we are following what is going on in the judiciary, and we are also following what the Danish Parliament itself has been able to make legislation to ensure fair trial. We do not need a human rights convention to regulate that for us. We can actually find out. - Sir, you can. Kristian Hegaard and I can also find out in the Legal Affairs Committee, and if there is something that does not go by the book, we can call the Minister for consultation or ask questions and, if necessary, make changes to the law. That is what we are proposing here, that is to say we are making some legislative changes, and then it is that the conventions come and tell us that we must not do so or that the Minister of Justice says that we must not do so in full. Then we shouldn't just do this if mr. Kristian Hegaard and the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party agree that it is not fair that you get a discount because you have done crime and a long time has passed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114135218	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114135219	Well, now it's not that perpetrator's fault that it's gonna be a long time. Those are some other bodies. But I just need to know if that means anything when Mr. Simpson... Peter Skaarup says that we should just sit and do it all ourselves, that the Danish People's Party preferred to see that we were out of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Is that the policy of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114135240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114135241	I would like us to be masters of our own house and to be able to ensure that a fair trial takes place ourselves, and on some points I consider the conventions to be obstacles for us to ensure common sense and general legal awareness in Denmark. And I'm gonna hold on to that. What the other countries will say if we say that we want to make reservations or we want to get out of the conventions altogether, and whether that means that a new convention could not be drawn up. These are some old conventions, we have to remember that I cannot assess. But I am confident that we 179 members of parliament can guarantee a fair trial, and otherwise I might know someone who will come after us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114135322	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup, and then we're through all the rapporteurs. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114135336	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114135356	After all, the debate on stepping up the punishment for the danger of others by using fireworks has already begun before Christmas during the examination of the government's proposals for precisely sharpened penalties for, among other things. Fireworks attack. That is why it is also a well-known debate which the Danish People's Party is proposing with the resolution here. I share, and the government shares the view of the Danish People's Party on this type of crime. Throwing or firing firebombs, bombers, rockets or other after cyclists or other unspeakable citizens is an act of ruthless and stunned behavior. It is a behavior that should in no way be minimized as pranks or the like. At the same time, when you are able to shoot fireworks at our firefighters, police or other rescue teams, it is an expression of total disrespect. Our preparedness is working hard all year round to take care of all of us. They are also at work on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve with the sole purpose of caring for the Danes. Therefore, we must strike down hard on those who are trying to hinder their work or directly harm those who are doing this work. I agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. That is why last year the government also put forward a bill that tightens the penalty for attacks by fireworks. The bill was adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing shortly before Christmas. The draft law introduced a new independent provision into the criminal code on attacks with objects... it may be stone or fireworks on persons in public service or duties. At the same time, we increased the penalty by one third. In addition, the penalty for the danger of the firing of fireworks against persons was also increased by one third compared with the then level of punishment, i.e. the level of punishment referred to in the motion for a resolution. Finally, with the bill, we ensured that, for violations of the new provision on attacks with objects on persons on public service, there would also be expulsion, no matter how long you have been in Denmark, and no matter how long you have been sentenced, if it is not certain that this is contrary to our international obligations. For the government, it is crucial that we, as a society, send a clear signal to inappropriate young people who commit this type of crime. We have done so with the bill adopted by the Danish Parliament before Christmas. But here, like everywhere else, punishment doesn't do it alone, let alone just raise the penalties. It is necessary for the police to be present, for the police to have the resources, and it is also necessary for the police to contribute with preventive action, and this year too it has been implemented. Among other things, the effort involved our local police engaging in dialogue with children and young people in areas where there have traditionally been challenges with firing fireworks up to and during Christmas and New Year. There has been information about punishment, and there have been concerns, etc. In addition, as in previous years, the police have also been on the streets with several people in the New Year's Day itself. I think that the peaceful New Year, which we had this year, was not only conditional on it, but also, in any case, on the fact that the Corona imposed a restriction on the festivity, and in any case, the police and firemen have described it as a peaceful and calm New Year's Eve, and there is good reason to rejoice about that. So far, so good. However, the Danish People's Party goes one step further than the government's proposal by saying that there must be a minimum penalty of as many as 1 and 2 years. That sounds inconvenient, and it is not an entirely unknown proposal either, because the Danish People's Party tabled a similar amendment to the government's bill, which was then not adopted, that is to say the amendment, and the government cannot support the resolution today either. Firstly, a largely unanimous Parliament has just adopted sanctions in this area. Severance of the one-third penalty is a clear indication that we will not in any way accept the firing of fireworks aimed at preparedness and ordinary citizens. Secondly, I do not believe that minimum penalties are the way forward for this type of crime. Danger violence and the new provision on attacks with objects on persons in public service cover a wide range of crimes with varying degrees of gravity. The courts must, of course, be able to take this into account. On the whole, it must be said that we have had the opportunity sometimes to change words in the Chamber about minimum penalties and that as far back as the Christian V▪ Danske Act, where there were a considerable number of minimum penalties, and until now there has been such that minimum penalties have been regulated; there have been fewer of them over time, because we want the courts to have the opportunity to include the specific circumstances in the individual case. If we in the Danish Parliament want there to be some level of punishment anyway, then instead of using minimum penalties over the last few years, and I think that is sensible, we have laid down a level of punishment which is based, for example, on a level of punishment. the comments on the legislative proposals. And it seems that it works, i.e. that the courts are not surprisingly in fact complying with the regulation that we are going to get adopted. Now we have the benefit of seeing what judgments actually fall out of the situation that has been this year over Christmas and New Year and the cases that are there. However, there have been some cases of detention of quite young people over Christmas and New Year, where it has to be said that the courts have taken down the signal that we in the Folketing would like politically to see more severe action taken on this type of crime. So, in my opinion, we need to take care of ourselves in order to go the way with minimum penalties. If we are to have a certain level of punishment, we should rather, as we have done in other contexts, legislate in the comments, because in this way we signal that we would like to have tougher penalties, while at the same time the courts have the opportunity to include the specific circumstances that may be around any case, and thus take the decision that weighs it all off. So the government cannot support the resolution, but thanks for the debate. I would also like to thank the broad circle of parties who said just before Christmas that this type of behaviour is unacceptable, and we want it to be tackled there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140123	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no brief comments, and then we start with the rapporteur's series and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140153	Thank you for that, President. It is unbearable to see that groups of young people lure police or firefighters or other authorities into ambush and set a container, a car, on fire. When such good men and women employed in our service come out, these people are attacked with stones, with bottles, with fireworks. We have seen it year after year and it is totally unacceptable, just as it is unacceptable that fireworks should be used against other groups of civilians or whoever it may be. It's serious. This year, of course, has been an exception due to all sorts of other circumstances, but unfortunately we have seen this phenomenon year after year and you are cursed by it. Unfortunately, we have also seen it connected to other groups of young people, whom we know well from other contexts: young people who are also inappropriate and behave completely without respect for the people they live with, or for the people they travel with, and, unfortunately, completely disrespectful of the men and women who serve, both with and without uniform. That is why it is right to focus on this, and so it was already at the turn of the year last year, when we saw a large number of cases, which led to us, at the time as promised, and now I look down at the Minister of Justice, too, starting to take action. We have delivered this and, as the Minister of Justice has also said, we have actually started to sharpen the penalties for this, and that is only good, because it is necessary. That is why, of course, we also share the whole proposal and the intention of the motion for a resolution which is before us to give greater attention to this matter. We may disagree with this about unfolding the minimum penalties everywhere, as we do here, but we fully agree that there is a need to tighten up the penalties, because it is simply not enough to endure, to say what it is. Now we have adopted some punishments, and I know that this is not in relation to precisely fireworks, but we have also presented packages that allow us to take action against inappropriate young people and to ban them where they are drifting and that you can take valuables from these young people if they owe something and so on. etc. And that is part of the same problem, although this fireworks thing has unfortunately also been expressed in wider circles. So it's only good with a sharpened tone here. We are happy to work to look at how we also look at punishments, but also to look at this with the normal punishments and that is among other things. In cooperation with the Left and therefore Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, for one thing is the penalty, but another is what it is then for some penalties that are actually being given. That is also part of what we are working on in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I was just about to say that we had before we had a proposal on penalty rebates, which we had almost adopted in the police conciliation, and here we now have a proposal on punishment in relation to fireworks, which we have also just adopted, but it is only good that we have the opportunity to welcome all the good work we can do together. So with that said, we share the intention. We welcome what we have just done, but we cannot support the motion for a resolution as regards some of the elements that were also reflected in the Prime Minister's, no, the Minister for Justice's fine presentation; indeed, that was a statement, regrettable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140529	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140532	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for also seeing a proposal here which we are now going to look at in terms of its operation; a proposal from the government that we adopted here before Christmas. I think there are many of us who are excitedly following these cases from around New Year's time that are now coming: how does it develop? When we have chosen to maintain our proposal, it is for us to ensure that we have some sensitive punishments; that we not only ensure a detention but also guarantee some tangible punishments. And there we can see that last year, for example, a 30-day prison sentence was given to fire a bomb pipe directly against another human being. Then the government is going to put up with it, and that is what we might see in the courts now here... to add a third to that sentence, that is to say a third on top of 30 days in jail. - Sir... Jeppe Bruus not well see that it is not something that acts as a deterrent? This will really mean that you leave approx. 30 days to approx. Forty days of punishment. It's not much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140642	That depends extremely on the circumstances. Is this an ambush? Are there any types of people who have used it as a serious harassment? Or what are the circumstances? For it is also part of judging whether a punishment is reasonable or not. For immediately it may seem like a violent punishment if it is a one-time offense in the countryside in drunkenness. Conversely, it may seem a very, very mild punishment if it is part of an ambush on the police and is completely intended. So it's the circumstances that determine it. And that is also why we feel a little tight about the minimum penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140723	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140724	Yes, it is true that this depends entirely on the circumstances. But we just have to note that by 2020 we had a verdict that gave 30 days in jail for firing a bomb pipe against another human being. And in the regime we had in 2020, in other words before the amendment of the law, one must assume that it has, after all, been a serious matter when, within it, one has chosen to give 30 days in jail. Then it's just that I'm gonna ask mr. Jeppe Bruus: Will it be satisfactory, as the government has proposed, and which has been adopted we voted in favour, although we would have liked something more to put one third in more than 30 days' imprisonment, i.e. approx. 10 more days in jail? Is that pretty much a deterrent?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140805	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140806	It's gonna turn out. We hope it is. But we also have no illusions that even if we punished it by 60 days or 90 days, it could be left alone. I mean, this is part of the a little more firm expression that has to be about the types that commit this type of crime, and that's hardly the only thing you're dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140831	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and then the Left rapporteur, Mrs Inger Løjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114140901	It's almost been New Year's Eve, with everything in it, including fireworks, especially around midnight. I think that's something we all love very much, and it wouldn't be the same without. It's a special tradition that we blow off fireworks to shoot in the new year, and it brings great joy to many of us. And for the vast majority, this is a peaceful event. Unfortunately, however, some people here in Denmark abuse access to fireworks and thus abuse it in a way that puts others at risk. You even use it as a weapon. They should not be allowed to destroy that tradition for all of us, and that is why we in the Left just before Christmas also voted in favour of the government's bill to tighten up the penalties for the abuse of fireworks when attacking others with it. We took a good step when we raised the level of punishment by a third, although we in the Left would actually have liked to have gone further. Honestly, 40 days in prison is not an overwhelming punishment for directing a New Year's rocket against another human being. We would like to see the level of normal punishment increased further from the 8 months and 40 days that are currently in force. It simply needs to be punished at a level where people refrain from abusing fireworks against others, or at least that they will be removed from the streets if they do. In principle, however, the Left does not support minimum penalties. On the one hand, it makes the punishment inflexible, as it is the courts, not the Folketing, which determine the specific penalties, and on the other hand it does not necessarily increase the level of punishment by setting a base for the penalty framework. And that is some of the work that has been done on the exploitation of the penal code, which we in the Left are very, very happy to have been set in motion; something which my good friend and colleague Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, who is also chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, has started work. And that is with very great support, I know, and it is good, so we will see whether the penalties are actually being used. Too much suggests they don't. But that is why the Left is not going to vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114141145	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114141229	Thank you for the floor. Fireworks can be nice to look at, but fireworks can also be dangerous. When Kristian Hegaard was 6 years old, he was unfortunately hit by a witch's hick on his thigh, because there were some who couldn't figure out how to control their fireworks. It wasn't the funniest night to spend in an emergency room with such a burn. This clearly shows that there are some, although at least at that time it was not intended to use fireworks in a dangerous way. It should not take place, and it should certainly not take place against people who simply do their job, move out or are present in public service in any other way. That is why we also agreed on a legislative proposal shortly before Christmas that additional action should be taken against it. It was with great regret that last weekend we saw some people holding a democratic demonstration which, during the demonstration, used some non-democratic means, including firing fireworks against people who were at work. This is totally unacceptable. It is therefore gratifying that, before Christmas, we adopted a legislative proposal in order to deal with this particular issue. As it has been a very short time ago, and as we do not support the content of the resolution here, we do not see any reason for adopting new legislation in this area at present. Against this background, the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114141414	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur on the Radical Left. And then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114141432	Thank you. I think there are many of us who have a strained relationship with fireworks, especially when it is used unreasonablely or illegally for that matter. It is, of course, reprehensible that it is being used against people who have to do their work, such as those who have to do it. police and firefighters, or when it is thrown against innocent people for that matter... consciously or in chastity. Fireworks are dangerous, and of course they must be used wisely and not least legally. It goes without saying that the unacceptable behaviour must be punished, but, as with the previous proposal, I think that this is a little unfortunate in time, because just before Christmas we adopted a proposal from the government which tightened the penalties and which, fortunately, also came into force before the new year. And that is why it was also true when a group of protesters protested the Corona restrictions on the weekends threw fireworks at the police. Of course, I do not have an overview of what it throws of cases, and they have certainly not been before the courts yet, but at least the legislation is there, and that is, of course, appropriate. I agree, of course, that as the Danish People's Party you can always want more punishment, but it will certainly not be with SF's votes today. We think it is a good idea first to look at how the government's proposals are actually going to work. Against this background, we say no today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114141607	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114141624	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we do everything in our power to ensure a secure environment for the people who go to work every day and undertake vital social tasks. I would like to start by stressing that I consider it totally unacceptable that people in public service should be attacked not only by fireworks, but also by other things. It's totally fucked up, and it doesn't belong anywhere. It doesn't mean to throw fireworks or fire objects at others.That kind of thing really has to be stopped, and I think it's important that we have a discussion on how to stop it. I think we can all remember the days up to Christmas and New Year's last year when there was trouble with fireworks on Nørrebro, on West Zealand and on West Denmark. There is no doubt that we need to put an end to this. The only question is how we do it. We didn't see the same New Year's Eve this year. I had personally feared that people would compensate for the lack of a party by just buying large quantities of fireworks, but fortunately that did not happen, so something has happened; something we have done has worked. Or maybe it's because there haven't been the big parties. It's hard to get smart. I think, and we think in the Enhedslisten, that we should spend some time looking at the preventive work, that is, how we ensure that we do not get there, where you think it is okay to fire fireworks at people who do their job, and against passers-by people at all. What the Danish People's Party is proposing with this proposal is that the penalty should be tightened up without having any other suggestions as to whether there were any other buttons we could screw on. The punishment must be so high that you can potentially be in prison for life. But how do we prevent fireworks from being abused? There are already provisions in the criminal code on qualified violence, on the threat of violence to the lives of others and on killings, and that has not stopped it so far, although the criminal framework for these crimes is high and can be applied if fireworks are abused. That is why I think we need to look more at preventive work and look more at access to fireworks at all. I have noted that this year there has been a debate about what it means for people who have pets that fireworks are being fired all over the place, and I have also noted that there has actually been a citizens' proposal in which the proposers believe that there should be a ban on fireworks. I do not think there should be. But I think we could look at whether we can define the period in which fireworks must be fired, so that we actually see less of it and make fireworks difficult to access at all. We have also dealt with a similar bill last year, and the Crime Prevention Council proposed in its hearing that we strengthen our efforts and ensure good leisure opportunities with competent staff. I fully agree with that, and so I agree that this is a slightly more boring solution than the one proposed here by the Danish People's Party. On the other hand, it is also a slightly longer-term solution than the one proposed here by the Danish People's Party, namely that we do the preventive work. There are plenty of police, social workers, teachers, educators and others who make a huge effort every day to try to prevent children and young people from growing up with crime and to prevent children and young people from ending up in crime. They need clear political support from this, they need resources for the long-term relationship work. The last reason why we cannot support this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party in the Enhedslisten is that you park a huge bill at the Department of Criminal Services, that is to say that you do exactly as you have done in Danish legal policy for the last 15 years, namely to raise the penalty headlessly without thinking about who is responsible for the task in the end, namely criminal justice. So there are several reasons why we cannot support this proposal from the Danish People's Party. But, of course, we fully share the intention to prevent people from firing fireworks at other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142049	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142051	It seems a little like Mrs Rosa Lund today every time pushes the button that means that I have to ask you something anyway. I am sometimes a little provoked by what Mrs Rosa Lund says; I am sorry. Mrs Rosa Lund says here that one of the reasons for this proposal and there are obviously many reasons why Enhedslisten will not support this proposal is that we should not criminalise something that is already criminal. That is how I understand what Mrs Rosa Lund says. But the thing is, there are plenty of examples that we may have to in here at Christiansborg. I would actually like to ask whether Mrs Rosa Lund does not agree that it is precisely one of the things we may have to do, in order to emphasise to our authorities, our courts and our citizens in Denmark that there is something here that we think is really reprehensible; that something is developing in a completely wrong direction. Let me just mention stalking as an example. That is one of the things we have agreed on: that here it is necessary to record exactly how we feel about it. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142203	Well, I don't think sir. Peter Skaarup regrets that he is taking the floor. After all, we are in the Chamber for a debate, so that is only welcome. I think that Mr. Peter Skaarup has a point. In other words, another example of precisely this is the question of harassment, in which I also think that the way in which the criminal code is being applied today is a little vague, especially since new opportunities have arisen for harassment, namely on the Internet. But I do not think that makes sense in this situation, because I do believe that the provisions in the penal code today frame this. Well, we don't need a new one. At the same time, that is what has just happened. That is to say, we have just lifted the penalty; it has just happened last year and has now entered into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142244	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142246	It is absolutely true that we have just lifted the penalty. The only question is, how much is that batter? And if we look at one of the cases that was last year, it gave 30 days in jail to shoot off a bomb pipe against another human being. It was a serious matter, but 30 days in jail is not very much. What the government wants to do is add one third, and we have voted in favour of it. And that's fine, but the question is, is that enough? Is that enough for him or her that's so fucked up? I do not know whether it is because of alcohol or drugs or what it may be that you shoot at another person. Is 40 days in jail here enough for Enhedslisten? Or shouldn't it be much harder in such situations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142335	I think that this raises a very classic debate, namely how to stop it. Well, how are we gonna make sure these things don't happen? I don't think so, sir. Peter Skaarup doesn't want us to stop it by just raising the penalty. In fact, I believe that the way in which we prevent people in service, people who go to work, from being exposed to this is, firstly, by making the preventive effort and, secondly, by ensuring that they have some more colleagues, so that we can avoid these situations, that is, by ensuring that there are more police officers in the areas where we are experiencing these problems, and last but not least, by making fireworks less accessible to ordinary people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142412	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. What helpfulness there is in the Chamber today. There's not an eye dry. But here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142443	Unfortunately, we have seen in Denmark several times that there are criminals who have shot fireworks after innocent people and also after police officers, ambulances and firemen who have simply tried to do their job. This is totally unacceptable. That is why it is unfortunately still a topical and relevant debate that the Danish People's Party raises with this motion for a resolution. When you commit serious crime, which is when you deliberately put other people at serious risk, it must have consequences that can be felt. No Danes should put up with the shooting of fireworks after them or their families. Unfortunately, that is not the case today, because there are still criminals who have not understood it. Increased punishment, as proposed here, will mean that the victim's legal position and sense of justice will be strengthened, and it will also have a preventive effect. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party are also ready to look at raising the penalty. However, we have the reservation that we are not in all cases in favour of minimum penalties. We want the courts in this area to continue to have a certain degree of freedom to determine the level of penalties, so that penalties in individual cases remain proportionate to the nature of the case. That is precisely why we are ready to look at the level of punishment. We agree with the Danish People's Party that it is not necessarily proportional today. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party are very positive about DF's proposal. We would like to raise the level of punishment, but we have reservations about minimum penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142640	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114142653	Thank you. This proposal must also be limited to the substitute. This proposal to tighten up the penalties for the use of fireworks, which could potentially endanger others, is that the penalty for the misuse of fireworks should have a penalty of up to 8 years in prison and, in the future, have a penalty in the range of at least 1 year's unconditional imprisonment and maximum life imprisonment. It is also part of the motion for a resolution that if the perpetrator is not a Danish national, Denmark may be expelled if the conditions are met. It is not quite clear what is meant by this, which we hope will be clarified in the course of further consideration. For there is talk in the motion for a resolution of the abuse of fireworks, but reference is also made elsewhere to section 252 of the Criminal Code, which deals with the situation where others are at risk of life. It is therefore somewhat unclear what the motion for a resolution proposes. For example, is it... Is it sufficient for fireworks to be abused, or is there to be a specific case of fireworks being used in a way that endangers the lives or mobility of other people in the way provided for in Article 252 of the Criminal Code? The question does not matter, because by its very nature there is a big difference between whether a 15-year-old throws a witch's hick at another 15-year-old or whether an assembly carries out an ambush on police, ambulances and firemen, where fireworks are actually used as weapons. It is clear from the comments on the proposal that it is in the case of the most significant infringements that the penalty must be lifted, so I assume that the legislative proposal that will be put forward will contain a clear distinction that allows the legislation to punish harshly, but fairly, and that it will also be taken into account that not two cases are the same. The motion for a resolution states that a minimum sentence of one year must be imposed, whereby fireworks are deliberately used against other people's lives and bodies, and that the penalty must be at least two years' unconditional imprisonment if the crime is committed against police or rescue officers. The motion for a resolution also lacks some precision. Because we just can't help it if a 15-year-old who throws a witch's hick after another 15-year-old goes under the same rule, which automatically triggers 1 year of imprisonment. There must be a distinction here, and that is why we must look at these things when we come to committee. Finally, we do not think that, as the motion for a resolution suggests, expulsion should take place only if the current conditions for the expulsion of Denmark are met. In new citizens, we believe that foreigners should be shown consistently and after the first sentence. The current legislation under the Aliens Act requires, as a starting point, that an unconditional sentence of liberty be obtained under Article 22 in the event of a risk to the life or mobility of any person. In new citizens, we believe that foreigners with a conditional prison sentence should also be expelled. With these criticisms in mind, we recognise the resolution's desire to tighten up. In the observations made in the motion for a resolution, we can, for example, say: read about a man who five times in the past was punished for perilous crime and was given only 60 days of unconditional imprisonment to expose other citizens to serious danger by firing a bomb tube at the entrance of a property where they stood. It seems obvious to me that this judgment against this type of crime is far too mild. However, we have a clear expectation that the clarifications that we have expressed might perhaps need to come here are some that can be clarified during the committee's examination of this, and that is why we can say that we support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114143039	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So, thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114143055	Fireworks launches yes, it must be a festive event and something that many Danes enjoy very much around New Year's time. But it is also something that poses certain challenges for our children and our families, because there are also some who do not understand how to treat fireworks in a sensible way. And the people who use the fireworks to cause trouble and fear should have no thanks whatsoever; they should be taken care of by society and taken care of by the police in such a way that they end up in court, and then they get a conviction for it. And they are the ones who throw fireworks and shoot fireworks at other people; we must have stopped them for the benefit of those who would like to have a pleasant time there at 24 New Year's Eve and, by the way, not at many other times, from the point of view of the Danish People's Party. And we have, unfortunately, seen exactly what I am mentioning here, that is, some who are trying to cause trouble, some who are trying to create fear, very many times in recent years, especially around the New Year's between 2019 and 2020. There it went completely, totally wrong around. Fortunately, there has not been much New Year's trouble this year. However, it is obvious to assume that the corona epidemic has had a clear impact on it, which is why it has to be said that this year has not been a normal year. It has not been in many areas, nor in this area. If you come back to last year, yes, there are stupid people, you have to say, who guided themselves by risking the lives of others, the health of others, and that is where we need to tighten up. And that's what the government has done. The question then is whether the government proposal that we discussed here before New Year and which has entered into force is good enough, and that is the big question. Our assessment in the Danish People's Party is that we did not vote for it, but we do not think it is good enough. And it is because the government told us, in relation to the proposal that has been adopted, that the penalty for abusing fireworks to cause danger to other people should be increased by one third, and that is therefore very modest in the end. Because if we look at what the penalty is really covering up, it doesn't bat so much. Because when you get a sentence of 30 days in jail • like that, for example. last year, to fire a bomb pipe on another human being, and this penalty then increases by a third to approx. Forty days in jail, it's not like that. And with a general normal sentence of between 10 and 60 days in prison, where the penalty is actually 8 years old, it seems crazy, to say the least, that deliberate violence does not really cost more in practice than it actually does. It is actually history that we also see in other areas: we actually have some pretty good penalties; we actually have quite significant penalties in some areas; moreover, it also applies to carnage of madness, and that applies to violence; but they are not used to a great extent by the courts. And that is precisely the problem here: you have a penalty of 8 years in prison, but you are giving penalties that are down at the low end of the register and, in fact, reasonably consistent. We have had to look at some of the judgments that have been made, and it is relatively consistent that even when you are causing danger to the lives and health of others due to the firing of rockets or fireworks, it does not give rise to the great punishments on the part of society. So we have to go much further up in the penal framework and have much more consistent punishments in this area, if it is up to the Danish People's Party, to get it to battling something and to send a signal to those who make use of fireworks to threaten other people; to make other people feel fear about it. And firing a bomb pipe against another human being is really using the bomb pipe as a weapon, and then it goes from being New Year's lizards, where you have fun together, to directly creating danger to other people. And if there is something that we do not need on a New Year's Eve where you have fun with the children and the family, then it is that danger and insecurity are created and that there is something that threatens the good atmosphere. We in the Danish People's Party have then drawn up this motion for a resolution which we are debating, and we actually think that we are hitting something that is more in line with what a real consequence should be when we are creating danger to other people in a hurry or perhaps directly of stupidity. That is why we propose in this resolution that the minimum penalty should be 1 year imprisonment and, of course, the expulsion of Denmark if you are not a Danish citizen. Then, having said all of this, I wonder why it is not just a proposal that goes smoothly through the Folketing. I know the government says, "Well, we just made some tights." I have then told you why the austerity is too modest and not going to move very much. I hope that the parties who then say today in this Parliament that they cannot support the proposal are both the Socialists, and that is also the Left and, indirectly, several other parties, and then the whole red side, that we are going through the cases that come on the basis of the New Year's fireworks this year and are looking at: are there any cases that fall under this provision that come before the courts, and are there some cases that mean that we are still giving away low penalties in this area? I hope that those parties will then be willing to sit down with us and come up with something that means that you will get a significantly higher penalty, otherwise we will not get rid of this. Then, of course, Mrs Rosa Lund can be right that there may be many other things you can also try to do. We can also look at the provisions in relation to firing fireworks at public employees, i.e. rescuers and police. It is also completely crazy, I think, that someone can come up with when the fire department comes out and tries to put out a fire out in a ghetto, to stand and fire cannons and rockets against the firemen in question... those poor people who, on our behalf, are trying to put out a fire, get fired rockets against them, so they sometimes have to retire. We can't be familiar with that. So there is, I and we in the Danish People's Party will maintain, the need for us to sit down and evaluate these things. And there are more things about fireworks. There are both the penalties that we have mentioned here, but there is also the period during which you experience fireworks, and there we would like it to concentrate on New Year's Eve and not happen at other times. This is an independent discussion that we also have to take at some point, because it is something that affects both people who want to have a little peace and quiet around Christmas and New Year, but it is also something that affects our livestock. After all, there are many dogs and cats who suffer a lot by the fact that there is so much fireworks for a gradual period of time. But that is another matter, and we shall come back to it. But here and now, as I said, I hope that, if you do not want to support this proposal, you will sit down and assess the judgments that fall. And there is our prediction, unfortunately, that they are still falling away with a relatively modest level of punishment, and that is why we need to tighten up to send out signals that are unmistakable to those who will not let us keep the family fun on New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114143935	There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210114143951	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 15 January 2021, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
