ParlaMint-DK_20210526100003	The meeting is open. The Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Danish Parliament a written statement on the promotion of business etc. 2021. R 18). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in the Parliamentary Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526100025	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526100037	The debate is open. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526100055	Thank you for the floor. The draft law here is intended to resolve a very specific problem concerning the system of social pedagogy support for higher education students who have not been administered for a long period, as the law otherwise prescribes. If the rules are applied from now on, some students will lose their right to SPS. Students can receive help and support by e.g.: dyslexia, hearing impairment, visual impairment and movement disability. The help depends on the individual's specific needs, but regardless of the disability, it becomes more difficult for the student to complete his or her studies if he or she is to do without the help through the SPS. Therefore, a temporary solution is proposed whereby the Minister of Education and Research is authorised to lay down rules so that certain conditions for receiving SPS may be waived. In this way, we ensure both that the administration of the scheme is done according to the rules, and at the same time we avoid that some students have to give up their studies. The law has a sunset clause so that the authorisation is automatically lifted again on 1 July 2022, and before that a long-term solution is worked out. SPS allows students who have a disability to complete an education on an equal footing with their fellow students. It would, of course, be highly inappropriate if students who use SPS today suddenly lost that opportunity so that they got more difficult to complete their education. That is why we think it is very positive that a pragmatic solution has been found which solves the problem here and now while working on a lasting solution. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526100235	Thank you. This did not give rise to brief comments, and so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526100300	Thank you very much. This bill is gonna make up for a huge mess. The draft law sometimes describes it quite incomprehensible, but as I have at least understood it, it describes that 1) existing rules have not been complied with, 2) the rules are inadequate, 3) the rules have to be changed temporarily. The fourth thing I want to say in this context is that the draft law has its full justification and that it is very good and very commendable to the Minister for now cleaning up this morass. Of course, we support that. After all, no one can live with the fact that a proper legal basis is not being administered as a starting point. However, it is important for me to stress that the draft law is not about SPS, that is, what size it is and who is entitled to it. We do not want the bill here to change the SPS; we do not want to create any doubt as to who is entitled to receive social education support in higher education. It must, of course, continue to be possible to receive social education support if this is a prerequisite for higher education. The purpose of the bill here is simply to clean up and fix a root of law, and, as I said, this has nothing to do with the content of the SPS scheme. We do not want to create uncertainty for students who are currently receiving SPS; on the contrary, we want to pave the way forward for a legal basis to be established so that we do not manage blindly. So, of course, the bill here has the full support of the Left. Then we look forward to getting the SPS system itself in the next session and creating the legal basis for continuing a well-functioning system that allows students who need it to receive special support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526100536	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526100557	Thank you. I was quite surprised when I was called by the Ministry not long ago and was told that in this area for years there had been an act against the rules. I would say that, fortunately, they had it. It is of course worrying that you have not discovered it before, but I would like to commend the Ministry for not only starting to act according to the rules when you discover it, but saying that the act that was in the real world has actually been the sensible and healthy one, and that is why you are doing what you can with this bill to change it so that until we can get the rules fully in place, you can act as you have done so far. Because it is important to report to the students that with this we can ensure that you actually get the same act and the same opportunity as you have had so far. One of the things we can then look forward to is that when we have to make the laws and the rules that should apply in the future, we might have occasion to look at how we ensure that the SPS will work even better. How can you be sure that you can get your support and your aids when you start your study and are not supposed to be able to get them only when you are halfway there in your study? So there are some elements that I think can be much better. But exactly about this, I have to say that if I had been contacted and had been told that you were acting like this and that you had considered acting according to the law, I would have shouted and screamed that you were doing exactly what we are doing today. So the Danish People's Party supports this proposal, and we hope that with it we can avoid problems for the students and that we will then move on and have some good rules made forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526100740	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526100754	Thank you. In the SF, we also support this proposal. It is, of course, a mess that we have not followed the rules that were, but we are very pleased that we are choosing to get things right now and in a way that means that students do not lose the right they have today. I would also like to say that I was also a little concerned when the Minister called me because I was afraid that the message would then be that some students would now be deprived of a right on which they are deeply dependent in order to complete their studies. We also think it is very good to have this sunset clause, which ensures that we discuss this a little more thoroughly, and when we do, and I hope we will come to that quickly, we do not need to stretch it as far as possible when the sunset clause is implemented, I hope that we will then also have a somewhat similar system or even an even better system than we have today on the SPS, so that even more young people can see themselves in the educational system we have. So a request from this House that we do not have to wait a whole year for this debate to take place. But the SF backs up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526100907	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. That is why we move on to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526100928	Thank you. Sometimes the possibility has to be used when such a beautiful situation arises that the radical rapporteur can basically say that, subject to the fact that I have overheard something, you can almost print copy-paste to what the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party said. That is quite right, because we would just like to ensure here that no student actually falls through when it has been mismanaged. I think that is quite important, and that is why, of course, the Radical Left also supports this urgent law, and we look forward to finding a lasting solution that will provide some security in this area. So I think that's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101013	Thank you. This did not give rise to brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101026	Thank you. The Enhedslisten also supports this urgent legislative proposal, which we are also very pleased about. Special educational support, the SPS scheme, is very important for a lot of students, and it would have been a disaster if we had just blown up a bomb under a lot of students and told them: Yes, all your plans for your education you can throw out the window. We're gonna get that fixed now. Then I think there are many others who really have said that when we're about to look at this, let's look at the SPS scheme. It is, of course, also important for us that what we are doing is to ensure that it is the practice that has been applied so far, which will also become reality afterwards, and not the rules that have been applied so far with the time limits. So we would very much like to talk about this, so that we ensure that we do not now have any new time limits or, in fact, new time limits for receiving SPS support, because this is a really, really important system to ensure that young people with disabilities can also complete their training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101128	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. Then it is Mrs Britt Bager, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101145	Thank you. As has been mentioned by previous rapporteurs, we are discussing the emergency law on special educational support here today because for years it has been administered in a way that is not in accordance with the law. With this law, we're setting up a temporary legal basis, so it's managed as before, now just legally. We in the Conservative People's Party support this and we look forward to discussions with the Minister so that we can find a permanent solution that is ready when the sunset clause expires next July.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101219	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101233	Thank you. Overall, we are in New Citizens' positive towards the SPS support the students receive. The purpose of SPS is to contribute to the ability of students to take an education on equal terms with other students with disability or equivalent difficult difficulties. The SPS specifically improves their prerequisites for following the training and completing their training. Some students actually experience the support as a determining factor in their ability to complete their education. In a report from the Danish Evaluation Institute from 2019 the students tell that they find it difficult to imagine that they could complete their education without the SPS support. For example: says a student with dyslexia that if there was no help, she would not be able to cope with the studies. Also among students who receive SPS on the basis of psychological difficulties, the benefits are good. Conversations with sponsors about weaker abilities can give students a sense of tranquillity and profit to focus on study work. The SPS thus helps to structure everyday life and school work for these students. The SPS therefore contributes to a better working life for young people in higher education. The draft law L 236 clarifies a transitional phase leading to a more permanent legislative text to come by 1 July 2022 on a more flexible administration of the SPS scheme in higher education. We welcome this in New Citizens and we therefore support Bill L 236.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101404	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101425	It is very rare for anything to be more right to be repeated, so I will refrain from doing so here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament and simply say that KD from words to words joins us in the speech made by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Because it is very important to put that fence stake, which Mrs Ulla Tørnæs also put down, in relation to what this is about. With these words, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101502	Thanks to Jens Rohde. Will Jens Rohde just clean up? Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101529	Thank you, both for the support to deal urgently with this bill today, but also for the fallen remarks; it is important for students with disability not to get caught. We are here today because it has been established that the system of special educational support for higher education students has unfortunately not been administered for a number of years in accordance with the law on special educational support for higher education. These are rules on how long the student can receive support and how long the student must be delayed in his or her education in order to maintain the support. The aim of the law is to ensure that students in higher education who have a disability, whatever this may be, are able to complete the course in the same way as other students. Special educational support can, for example: support in the form of sign language interpretation or specially designed teaching materials. The law lays down certain conditions for receiving aid and certain conditions for keeping the aid, and it is quite clear that the administration must comply with the legislation in force at all times, of course. It is therefore also very regrettable that this has not been the case and, of course, it must be corrected as soon as possible. However, the reorganisation of the administration according to the applicable rules is expected to result in some students losing their right to continue receiving SPS with disability. In the extreme, as several of the previous speakers have said, this could mean that they will not be able to complete their training. Therefore, this is an unsustainable situation that we have to deal with, and I would like to sign again for the support and the fallen remarks on the bill. The aim here is, of course, to provide a basis for temporarily derogating from the conditions relating to the support framework, support time and study activity in order to receive special educational support in higher education. With the bill, we ensure that students with disabilities, who receive SPS with previous practice in breach of applicable rules, can now complete their education with the necessary support. In this way, the crucial consideration is taken that the administration of the scheme must, of course, take place in accordance with the rules, while at the same time not putting students with disabilities in an unsustainable situation. This is a temporary arrangement that creates space to properly look at how the SPS scheme is to be designed in the future. And as I have also informed the Committee on Education and Research, I expect to discuss with the education rapporteurs how best to set up the SPS scheme for higher education students in the future. It is important to me that we continue to focus our common forces and work together to ensure that students with disabilities have good opportunities to take a higher education on an equal footing with other students. Thank you for your agreement, and thank you for your support, both for urgent handling and for the urgent legislative proposal that has been tabled. And not least, I would like to thank you for your support for looking at the general scheme on the other side as well. I look forward to it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101857	There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101901	Thank you for that and thank you for the bill to the Minister. I think that was a good move for everyone in the office, so thank you for that. I think it might be very good, even for all those who need to study soon and need SPS in the future, for us to get black and white, for what we are ready to do, for what we want to do is to create new rules that make it in line with the reality today, and that we do not intend to introduce any deadlines, as was previously provided for in the law, but have not been applicable in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526101938	This whole exercise is precisely about saying that what you have experienced as a student in recent years is also what we maintain in managing after the coming period. We shall now have the legal basis for thanking you for that, but then we will also give our hands on the fact that when the temporary legal basis expires, we will sit together politically and find a lasting solution to this arrangement. And yes, it is my view that we are starting from what is in force today, but I do not want to anticipate the overall negotiations and the overall discussions on it. Because I can also hear that there are various rapporteurs who would like to carry in other things and have a broader discussion of it, and I think there should be room for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526102022	Thank you. This means that there are no further brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The meeting will be suspended, but the Danish Parliament will be back at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526130043	The sitting is resumed. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 27 May. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, for a reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526130119	Four wars in 12 years. Since Israel began its blockade of Gaza, thousands of civilian Palestinians have been killed by Israeli bombs while they have been airtightly locked up in one of the world's largest prisons. An entire generation in Gaza grows up with trauma for life. Most people in Gaza know one or more people who have been killed or lost their loved ones. Here we are again. Over the last few weeks Israel's bombs have killed 235 Palestinians, 65 of them children, in Gaza, while 12 Israelis, including two children, have been killed by Hamas rockets. 6.255 Palestinians have been wounded; on the Israeli side it is 796. That is simply unacceptable. We have a responsibility to prevent wars and bloodshed from continuing. That is why we have called for an urgent request today to get the government to act now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526130227	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Then we will have the answer, and that is the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526130238	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the questions he has put to us. Christian Juhl. 11 days of rocket attacks and bombings have cost the lives of well over 200 people and have injured many thousands, including a large number of children. It is a human tragedy and it is deeply frustrating to witness once again such a violent and bloody flare-up of the conflict. I am relieved that a preliminary cessation of fighting has now been achieved. It is absolutely essential that the ceasefire be respected so that we can protect civilians, guarantee humanitarian access to Gaza and initiate a diplomatic process. From the outset, I have clearly distanced myself from the many thousands of indiscriminate rocket attacks by the terrorist organisation Hamas and other militant groups in Gaza targeting civilians in Israel. And let me be quite clear: that is totally unacceptable. It is purely terrorist activity; it must and must be stopped. The government has very clearly stated that we recognise Israel's legitimate right to self-defence in that situation. At the same time, we have also consistently stressed that Israel must demonstrate proportionality and restraint in the use of force. Efforts to bring about a ceasefire have had a great deal of international support. I myself have reached out from early in the conflict to my colleagues in Israel and Palestine and called for descalation. At home, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been in constant contact with the present ambassadors, and our embassies outside have made a great effort despite difficult circumstances. The diplomatic efforts which ultimately led to the ceasefire were gradually intensified over the 11 days of the conflict. I myself experienced this very closely when the United States Secretary of State was in Copenhagen, Iceland and Greenland in the past week. Here he continuously conducted a very active telephone diplomacy with a number of key players, just as Blinken and I discussed the conflict on a two-man basis several times. American involvement has been crucial to bringing Israel on board a ceasefire. In relation to Hamas, particular attention should be paid to the efforts of regional actors. Egypt has in previous conflicts between Israel and Hamas, among others. 2014 and 2009 played a key role in getting Hamas to join the ceasefires. Egypt has had a special opportunity to do so, as it enjoys sufficient confidence both in Israel and in Hamas. Of course, the government would have liked the United Nations Security Council to agree on a resolution calling for a ceasefire, but the assessments on the part of the United States in particular were that there was a greater chance of a ceasefire without a resolution and we respect that. For the government, the goal, that is, the truce itself, is more important than the means. That is why I also welcome the fact that the ceasefire is now a reality. The European Union has also actively engaged in the conflict. From here there have been ongoing calls for de-escalation and active diplomacy from both the High Representative Borrell and from several EU Member States, including an active effort on the Danish side. The holding of an extraordinary meeting of Foreign Ministers on 18 May was an important signal that the conflict had to deescalate and completely end. Given the current situation, where the humanitarian challenges in Gaza are enormous, the government will focus on two actions: firstly, we will work, in particular through the European Union and the United Nations, to ensure the protection of civilian and unhindered humanitarian access to Gaza. Secondly, we will help address the root causes of the conflict and hopefully restore the perspective of a two-state solution. This is the only viable way for both Israelis and Palestinians. That is why steps must also be taken by both sides. This includes the lifting of the blockade against Gaza for the benefit of the people imprisoned in Gaza and, of course, it must go hand in hand with steps to ensure Israeli citizens against attacks by Gaza, including the disarmament of all terrorist groups in Gaza. Both should be a matter of course. In the wake of the ceasefire, therefore, a series of confidence-building measures must also be promoted so that the situation should gradually normalise in and for Gaza and therefore also for Israel. In the EU circle, we agree on the broad lines, including the objective of a two-state solution with borders based on status before the occupation in June 1967, with the possibility of land exchange. Jerusalem must be the shared capital of the two states and security arrangements must take account of Israeli security in relation to terrorism and other security threats, including regional threats. At the same time, they must respect the sovereignty of the Palestinians and the right to their own state. Finally, a fair, agreed and realistic solution must be found to the refugee problem. At the same time, it is important that the status quo for the sacred places in Jerusalem be maintained. We must bear in mind here that it is Jordan which, under the 1994 peace agreement between Israel and Jordan, has responsibility and competence over that area and it is therefore important that it is respected, of course. Moreover, there is no doubt that settlements constitute a core problem in the conflict. Denmark and the EU's position on the settlements are clear: the settlements are illegal under international law. The government's policy is therefore that Israel should cease its settlement policy. This goes directly against EU policy and UN Security Council Resolution 2334. The Government supports the call in the Security Council resolution to distinguish between Israel and the occupied territories. Forced expulsions of Palestinian families from their homes, which are instead handed over to settlers, are contrary to international law. The EU and Denmark have made this clear on several occasions. Denmark therefore took part in an EU-led visit to Sheikh Jarrah on 11 May to underline our opposition to the postponements. The lack of Palestinian elections to give political legitimacy to Palestinian leaders, including their own people, remains a considerable challenge. That is why it is important to have the Palestinian elections carried out, which have so far been postponed indefinitely. The government is also closely following the humanitarian situation in Gaza. The partners of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are fully engaged in strengthening their ongoing activities in the area. The Danish Red Cross and Save the Children have already set aside over 2.5 million over the past week. kr. to emergency interventions in Gaza under their partnership with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Denmark contributes 105 million. kr. Annual core contribution to UNWA. The organisation provides basic services such as education, health and protection to the approximately 1.4 million Palestinian refugees in Gaza. UNWA plays an important role, including in the forthcoming humanitarian work. For example, the organisation has schools in Gaza, which house over 65,000 Palestinians who sought shelter from the bombings. The People's Church's Emergency Aid, Interfolk Samvirke, Actionaid, Save the Children as well as the Danish Red Cross have all long-term programs in Palestine for Danish funds. There is a need for the parties to the conflict to ensure humanitarian access in order to assess needs and provide necessary humanitarian assistance. Let me conclude by saying that Denmark has close cooperation with Israel, which includes everything from trade to research and innovation. We have a close and trusting dialogue. Of course, we are also using it to present our views on how to strengthen the conditions for a peaceful solution to the conflict. The same applies to our cooperation with Palestinian self-government. This cooperation is based on an overall strategic approach, ensuring that development cooperation supports the political work related to the peace negotiations. The conflict is both long-lasting, complex and heartbreaking. We must constantly navigate in a landscape of absolutes, balances and compromises. It is an absolute fact that international law must be complied with by all parties. And no matter how you turn it, a rocket rain is blinded to densely populated areas, nothing more than terror. It is also an absolute fact that civilians on both sides must and must be protected from bombs and rockets. That is why the right to self-defence, which is also part of international law, must be respected. At the same time, it must be exercised with due regard for proportionality. There is also the responsibility of the international community for a fair and balanced approach to the conflict. Time and again, if we turn forward with unbalanced resolutions, which cannot pattern either broad international support or effective ownership by the parties, then we are withdrawing instead of adding to it. In fact, we all know the solution: it can only end with a negotiated and equal solution, a compromise. We must do all we can to prepare the ground for this with a view to both absolutes, balances and compromises and as support for the two-state solution, support for peace and security and a secure future for both Israelis and Palestinians.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131248	Thank you. A brief comment can now be made on each of the party's main rapporteurs. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131257	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State. I am pleased that the Minister is saying that the launch of the thousands of missiles launched by Hamas against Israel is terrorism. It is. I think everyone can see that. However, a few weeks ago we had a debate in this Chamber where Conservatives suggested that both the military part of Hamas and the political part should be described as terrorist organisations. At that time, the Minister rejected it, but he said that it could be that things changed in the future. Now something has changed with this very violent attack. Does the Minister really believe that this attack could take place without the political part of Hamas having also been involved? And does that change the Minister's view that both parts of Hamas should be described as terrorist organisations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131345	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth also to emphasise that these arbitrary rocket attacks against Israel are also terrorism by Hamas, which is a terrorist organisation. I think, sir. Marcus Knuth refers to the debate on Hezbollah and not Hamas. So I think we'll leave it there. Because it is true that we have had a debate recently. I think I'm gonna stop this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131409	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, that SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131412	The recognised organisation Human Rights Watch has stated that Israel's policy is apartheid. There is no doubt that when it comes to democracy, Palestinian autonomy is worn out, and their rule of law is, to say the least, wobbly. That is why there can be all sorts of good reasons why we should look into the status of human rights both in Israel and in the Palestinian territories. After all, we are about to have a meeting of the UN Commission on Human Rights on Thursday, and I would like to ask how the Minister sees the possibility of getting closer to what kind of crimes are being committed and of which parties. We have reason today to be a little optimistic. I believe that yesterday afternoon, at the request of the Christian Democrats, the Dutch Parliament agreed to go to the Commission on Human Rights with a proposal along these lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131515	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131516	Yes, it is true, as has also been pointed out here, that there are negotiations on a resolution which is actually going on in Geneva these days and hours. The final text in relation to a possible UN Commission of Inquiry into possible war crimes and abuses committed in the conflict is not yet available. How that debate ends is too early to say, but of course we are committed to the debate and we are engaged in a broad range of EU countries in the resolution proposal. However, as I think I also emphasised, it is important for us that we work for EU unity and that we work for a fair and balanced text and, moreover, we focus on how to fertilise the ground, as I mentioned before, in relation to the parties, so that we can remove the cause of the problem, which is, of course, that we have not yet achieved a two-state solution for the Israelis and Palestinians. But we are committed to the debate in Geneva.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131612	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131614	Thank you. This is also an independent investigation. When the Minister says that it must be fair, it must certainly examine both sides and be impartial. I guess that's the two basic principles. And I can see that both the Netherlands and Ireland and Luxembourg support such a study. Why doesn't Denmark, like the other countries, go ahead to influence it as well? After all, Denmark is a temporary member of the Human Rights Council and thus a very, very important factor in this decision. Apart from that, it is probably time for the European Union to start not voting on such things and then start taking a position. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131700	To Mr. Christian Juhl and Mr. Karsten Hønge, I would like to say at the risk of repeating that there is, of course, a debate on the motion for a resolution to support a United Nations Commission of Inquiry into possible war crimes and abuses by both sides. We are committed to that. When the text is finally negotiated, we will take up our position as to whether it is a text in which we can see ourselves, and we will do so together with other like-minded EU countries. And Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned some of the countries that are also committed, among others. Netherlands and others. So when there is a text, we can see if it is something we can support. Furthermore, I would just like to say to the debate here that I think it is very important that we also look ahead and see what it takes to rebuild a trust between Israelis and Palestinians that can fertilise the ground so that we can get a debate going that can lead to a two-state solution, which is, of course, the real means of ensuring that a more permanent peace can be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131759	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131801	Thank you. Does the Foreign Minister consider that it is possible for Israel to conclude a permanent peace agreement with a counterpart, Hamas, which has the extermination of the State of Israel as its declared objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131816	It is important that there should be negotiations between Israel and Palestinian self-government, and it is PA that sits on the West Bank in Ramallah and then Israel. And then it is also important that, as we stressed several times, elections should soon be held on the Palestinian side, the last elections held were in 2006, I believe, and it is a few years back, in order to have a legitimate Palestinian party with which to negotiate, so that when you conclude a peace agreement, a two-state solution, and find solutions to all the other issues that I also mentioned in my speech, it is also an agreement that can hold and which has the necessary legitimacy also for the Palestinians. So that is what we support from the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131902	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we start the rapporteur's round. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Christian Juhl. I would also like to point out that my task up here is to comply with the Rules of Procedure, but also to get the negotiations to take place as smoothly as possible. We are also in the situation here that there are three outside the groups who have asked to speak, and I will make every effort to ensure that this happens, but the timeframe must also be respected, which means that a simple calculation tells me that there is room for approx. 13 brief remarks. If we get beyond that, it means in the first place that the Minister will not get back to the floor or that someone outside the groups will not get on the floor so that some kind of Conduite can make it through all of this, I hope the House will help. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526131953	Thank you. It is always good to have a strong President at your side. The UN has declared Israel's 14-year blockade of Gaza illegal. It violates international conventions and constitutes a collective punishment of an entire civilian population. Recently, the UN Secretary-General has described life in Gaza, especially for children, as being like hell on earth. I very much agree with his comments. Whole generations grow up without seeing the outside world without meeting an Israeli who is not a soldier. We know from investigations into previous wars that both Israel and Hamas, but especially Israel, have committed war crimes by bombing civilian targets with unbearably many civilian victims as a result. All of this presents an overall picture: we have failed Gaza, we have failed peace by political means, we have failed world society. In particular, the European Union and the United States should have done so much, much more. It is not because we are anti-Israeli or pro-Palestinian, but because we believe that all people have the right to live in freedom and dignity and within the framework of human rights, because we support international conventions and because we know that the Israeli occupation is a source of so much human pain and insecurity that extends far beyond the geographical framework of the conflict and all the way back to Denmark. We still have the chance to act, and it should give itself, because unlike many other places in the world, we have the opportunity to play a far, far greater role. Denmark and the EU often refer to themselves as Israel's allies, and Israel has virtually unhindered access to our markets, and our allies the United States finances the Israeli military. First of all, Denmark should move all the way forward on the bus in order to press for the blockade of Gaza to be lifted as soon as possible. We must do this in the European Union, in the United Nations and through our bilateral relations with Israel. The possible war crimes of both parties must not go unnoticed. That is why we strongly urge the government to support an impartial UN investigation into the military actions of the last few weeks in the UN Human Rights Council tomorrow. As a temporary member of the Council, Denmark has a unique opportunity to contribute to the detection of possible war crimes. We must not fail that responsibility because of fear or fear of American reprisals. Then we must condemn Israel's disproportional use of military force, just as we must condemn Hamas' attack on civilian targets. It is also true that we need to raise our eyes. These wars and massacres don't happen in a vacuum. Israel's occupation and daily repression of the Palestinians breeds and nourishes violence. Israel's settlements and ethnic cleansing are, and remain, the primary source of violence. That is why we must address the conflict at its root and demand that there be significantly greater political pressure on Israel, which, as an occupying power, is the sovereign strongest party. We must also understand that the current developments in Gaza are closely linked to Israel's conduct in East Jerusalem, where the Israeli Government has ethnically cleansed 14,000 of its original Palestinian residents since 1967 and will now banish more families for the benefit of settlers, ultimately to connect settlers on the West Bank with the old city of Gaza. It simply does not make sense that after so many years Israel will still be given such a high level of positive discrimination. I would venture to say so, even in the interest of Israel. Global public opinion calls for our action, for us to put an end to Israel's racism and domination policy. If, after four years of war and thousands of civilians killed, we do not find the courage to act, it is quite inexcusable. We have a number of options right now. We need them. Then I have a proposal for adoption which I shall read out. This text has been agreed between the Social Democrats, the Left, the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Christian Democrats, the IA from Greenland and the Javnaðarflokkurin from the Faroe Islands. It sounds.: Proposal for adoption: Parliament calls on the government, particularly through the EU and the UN, to work for: All parties comply with the ceasefire. Civilians are always protected and international law respected. The Gaza blockade shall be lifted. Engaging in ongoing resolution negotiations within the Human Rights Council with a view to achieving a fair and balanced resolution text based on the above principles. • V 131)
ParlaMint-DK_20210526132454	The proposal for adoption will now be included in the further debate and we will ensure that it is distributed as soon as possible. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526132501	Thank you. In the proposal for adoption, the rapporteur states that we must support the lifting of Israel's blockade against Gaza. After all, Israel is responsible for the border northwards and also eastwards, but southwards it is Egypt that decides who is going out and who is going in, so Egypt should actually be included in that text of adoption as well. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526132528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526132529	That's easy to say. But what is most important is that Gaza is given the opportunity to have contact with the outside world, that they can fish, that they can start building their country, that they can get building materials in, that they can get jobs going and that they can get a normal life going. As long as that does not happen, it is obvious that an extreme attitude will spread among the people, because they can do nothing and they must do nothing. That is why it is important that we normalise the situation in Gaza in all areas and thus also lift the blockade that exists today. We can't talk about that by saying that it's someone else we're talking about. It is Israel we are talking about at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526132610	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526132611	Can the rapporteur give me an explanation as to why Egypt may be setting a completely closed border where there is no possibility of one or the other transition? What is it that makes Egypt, a Muslim country, do it to their fellow believers in Gaza?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526132635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526132636	There may be many reasons for this. I think we should ask the Egyptians themselves for an explanation. We can only guess, but it may be for Israel's sake. It may be that, for the sake of what I know, it is possible to stand well with Israel and other countries. I don't know. I think we should try to ask the Egyptians about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526132702	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no more brief comments, and after some cleaning it is Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526132726	Thank you for that, President. When this question debate was decided, there was a bloody showdown between the Palestinians and the Israelis. It was a battle that lasted for 11 days, with bloody conflict and many died and wounded on both sides, mostly on the Palestinian side and least on the Israeli side. There were also many children who died. Last Thursday I had a meeting with the Palestinian ambassador up in my office, and of course he explained very clearly what, in his opinion, happened and said: remember to say that there are children dying. I think we all know that this conflict is difficult, complex and not easy to resolve. At the same time, I believe that all of us rapporteurs have also received e-mails from the Israeli Ambassador. We have all had the Israelis explaining what is happening in Gaza. It is, of course, also conflicting and, of course, it is unfortunate for them too, because Israelis also die. Fortunately, the night to Friday a ceasefire was concluded. The Palestinian Ambassador said to me on Thursday: let us see how long it lasts. I insist that we believe it lasts for a very long time. For the last few weeks there has been a violent escalation of the Israel-Palestine conflict, and that is obviously very worrying. We have often and often had the discussion here in Parliament about this particular conflict, and one and a half months ago, on 20 April, we also had the discussion on developments in the West Bank. Unfortunately, this is a conflict that is difficult to resolve, and that is also why we talk about it as often as we do here in the Folketing. Over the past 14 days, we have witnessed heartbreaking civilian losses on both sides, and the Palestinian side in particular has had to bear many of the losses. However, as I said, a ceasefire was concluded overnight. Both sides have almost declared themselves victorious, but in reality I think it is diplomacy that has triumphed here if you can call it a victory. There is still a conflict, but a cease-fire. The international world community, including Denmark, as we heard the Minister say, has worked hard to bring about the ceasefire. We have abandoned the arbitrary rocket attacks by Hamas against civilians in Israel, and we have recognised the Israelis' right to self-defence. However, we have also stressed that Israel should show proportionality in its response and we must do what we can to ensure that the ceasefire is observed. As I said, it is not so long ago that we discussed this in the Folketing. The developments we have seen over the last month have been violent, but the fundamental problems that have triggered the escalation remain the same as before. After all, in April we produced a very broad text for adoption, as we have done today, and I am very, very pleased about that. Because when we talk about the West Bank in the Social Democratic Party, we have the same policy that we have had all along, and I am very glad that this is actually the policy we have in the Folketing and that we have broad texts for adoption. That is also what we are seeing today. Because this is an urgent question, the text is very short, namely 46 words in total, but we in the Socialist Group think that we should also look back on the most recent text of adoption we have from 7 April that Israel is suspending its settlement policy and that the Palestinians are holding legitimate and democratic elections for all Palestinians. There were other things in that text of adoption, but for us in the Socialist Group it still applies, and I believe that this is the case for all of us, because we have such a broad consensus on this text that we have put forward today and as Mr. Christian Juhl has read it a few minutes ago. Then it's time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133138	Time has passed, yes, and there are six people who have asked for a brief comment. There are two outside the groups, but only one outside the groups will be able to ask a question, otherwise we will not have this. That's why it's first, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133155	The problem with the conflict is, of course, precisely our approach or lack of 250 Palestinians have been killed, 66 children and 39 women, and 2 000 people have been injured. This is not a conflict between two equal parties. It's an occupying power against a civilian population. Human Rights Watch and even B'Tselem have called Israel an apartheid state, and that is why we in the Free Greens have been out to say that, like we boycotted South Africa, we must boycott Israel: economic, political and cultural. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether we can at least help to put pressure on the government so that we can send an official letter from Denmark, in which we clearly reject the state terrorism that Israel is exposing the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133302	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133304	As a Socialist rapporteur, I find it very unfortunate that the Greens are not included in the broad text of adoption. In the broad text of adoption, as Mr. Christian Juhl read out, says that all parties must abide by the ceasefire, that all parties must respect and protect civilians, that international law must also be respected and the Gaza blockade lifted. I think it is very, very clear that a very broad Parliament is in favour of these things. It would suit the Free Greens that they might join forces with the rest of the Folketing and fight a joint battle from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133347	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133348	When we cannot be in the text, it is because the premise of the text is that it is two equal parties. That's not true. It is not two equal partners. It is an occupying power, which Human Rights Watch now calls an apartheid state, against a civilian population who is locked in an open prison, who does not decide their own lives, who does not decide whether to have a job or to have an education, and who is under age. We do not want to maintain the Israeli propaganda with the fact that it is two equal parties. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133419	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133421	As something new, we have done now in this text of adoption, we have written that the Gaza blockade is being lifted. This is about the Palestinian people. We believe that everyone should comply with international law; that cannot be displeased, even with you. At the same time, we say that we must abide by the ceasefire; I do not think we can disagree with that either. So I actually think we've balanced it remarkably well. It's a very, very broad parliament that thinks the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133451	Thank you. Then I would say that two of the Enhedslisten have asked for a brief comment. With so few brief comments, I do not think that would be fair, and that is why I shall now give the floor to Mrs Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133500	Thank you for your review. I think it is very important that we make it clear that the blockade of Gaza must be lifted and that international law must also be complied with. But what I would like to ask the rapporteur about is that tomorrow we are actually faced with Denmark voting in the UN Human Rights Council on whether one should have such an investigation into the war crimes committed in Israel and Palestine here during the attacks in Gaza. I think it's insanely important that we investigate. Normally, the EU countries always vote in favour of such independent investigations if there has been a conflict, but precisely on the issue of Israel and Palestine, they do not do so because for too long, together with the United States, they have stood to hold their hands under Israel and therefore do not want an investigation into particularly the civilian killings on the Palestinian side. There I would like to hear the rapporteur: is it not time that Denmark also took the steps to actually vote in favour of such a study? It is good that we have been able to agree on a text for adoption which says that we are going into the work, but are we not going to do so any more?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133610	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133611	Well, thank you to Enhedslisten for the tireless work that has been done. We have had an incredible number of telephone calls across Pentecost to agree on this, and I am just so happy about that, because we are usually in these texts for adoption on the West Bank conflict. It is the case that the ceasefire cannot stand alone, and that is why a step must be taken here, but this must be done by both sides. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the right way to go is through the European Union so that we can bring together some statements, just as the Minister explained in his reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133650	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133652	But the reality here is that the European Union always refrains from saying that it must have an investigation into war crimes, which would otherwise be done in any other conflict, because, together with the United States, we are keeping our hands on Israel. There's a movement in this. There are several EU countries that are starting to go a different way, and I am so glad that the Danish Government is also now saying that you want to be involved in going in and pushing and seeing if you cannot get a good vote adopted here, etc. But it is not enough for us to continue not to work actively for such an investigation. So, this really is a request from this House, because I think that we should vote in favour of it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133727	Thank you. Then we'll get answers. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133730	But it is the case that Denmark is working very hard to ensure that there is peace, that democratic elections are achieved, that there is an end to the conflict down there. But it is the case that quiet democracy often discourages doing something in the open. This has been seen here, among other things. in relation to the ceasefire, that is, how the United States and Egypt, like, have been able to work together. So we do really, really many things. I think the Minister has explained this very clearly and we are happy to work with Enhedslisten on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133804	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133807	Thank you. I understand very well that when discussing the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, there is sometimes a need to paddle. But there is also a need to be clear in the language at other times, also in relation to the question that Mrs Flyvholm is asking about specifically supporting investigations into crimes, of course, on both sides, as they do when there is war. And I would really like a more concrete answer from the Social Democrat rapporteur, because this is not about working through the EU or not working through the EU. This is about Denmark having a seat in the Human Rights Council and how we stand. We know that some EU countries are going to vote against, and we then yesterday the Dutch Parliament is calling for a vote to be taken in favour, and some are usually abstaining. After all, it is a matter of national decision-making. Does the Social Democrats believe that we should support the fact that this study is being carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133900	Just as the Minister said, we look at the text when it is available and then we take a position on it. In relation to the obvious point, I think we have simply been in the proposals for adoption. We have made many proposals for adoption, and in the latest proposal for adoption, V 100, we say that Israel must stop its settlement policy. It is clear that the Palestinians must make elections. And now we are saying that the Gaza blockade must be lifted. It is new and very clear. I think we have many, many clear indications in relation to this conflict. And we will take a position when we have seen the text of the UN Human Rights Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133944	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526133945	Well again: We can easily stand and talk about the proposals for adoption we made in the Danish Parliament I know them too, because I have been involved very much in this debate here in the Danish Parliament. But what is it that is needed in the adoption of the Human Rights Council so that it can be supported by the Social Democrats? I think it is important that we become precise now. In other words, we need to investigate the war crimes that have taken place on both sides of the conflict, and we can only do so if we do so impartially and through the United Nations. So what is it that is needed in order for the Social Democrats to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134012-2	Well, it takes there to be a consensus on that. It doesn't help anything that you're standing alone... if Denmark stands alone around this, we're out of control. So we are looking at what the text will be like and then we are looking at whether there will be a consensus on things. That is what we do in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134032	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I can see that the rapporteur on the left is hurling to the platform. Sir. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134054	Thank you, Mr President. As a member of the European Committee, I have had the opportunity to read the written presentation that the Foreign Minister has sent to us there. The presentation states that the Foreign Minister has discussed the conflict between Palestine and Israel with his American colleague, Antony Blinken, who is visiting Israel today. At the same time, the Foreign Minister has made direct representations to both his Israeli and Palestinian colleague and has presented the Government's message to deescalate the conflict between the two parties. We must therefore note that the government has acted and that the Minister has done his best to make clear Denmark's position on the conflict and advocated a ceasefire and descalation. The conflict between Israel and Palestine is one with great costs for both sides. In the Left we support the activist foreign policy and believe that Denmark should engage actively in the world. Therefore, we should also do what we can to ensure that the conflicts of the future are made more difficult to arise. Denmark's development policy work in Palestine therefore also focuses on creating sustainable development over time. Denmark is engaged in this work in creating a sustainable economy for the Palestinians as well as in supporting civil society organisations. In other words, Denmark is working to stop both the current conflict and to prevent tomorrow's conflicts between the two parties from arising. It is hardly something that happens overnight, but a sustained effort. On the left side, we clearly share the government's position in the conflict. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that we recognise Israel's right to defend itself proportionally. Of course, we want the government through the EU and the UN to work to ensure that all parties to the conflict comply with the ceasefire and that civilians are always protected wherever they live. The Left can therefore also endorse the draft adoption that has been made by the government and that several other parties can also support, and we are very pleased with the broad support for this proposal. At the same time, we must also note that Denmark's ability to act in relation to the current conflict, which has certainly flared up again, is best negotiated through the European Union and the United Nations. Therefore, we must not forget that Denmark has in many ways good opportunities to achieve our foreign policy precisely through the European Union, where the message of descalation, ceasefire and protection of civilians has much greater power when it is shared and backed by all the Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134442	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134447	Thank you. The Left rapporteur did what changing ministers and successive government parties have done: first they say against Hamas' rockets, then they say the phrase Israel's right to exist must be guaranteed; and that is absolutely right. Most ministers fail to say anything about the oversized bombing of Gaza by the Israeli military, which is one of the strongest in the world, which is not really being said about. Is it deliberate, or is it a coincidence, to criticise only the bombings of one party? It is an occupied country, so we can actually say that international law gives them a certain right to defend themselves. It is the possessors that are being held in these debates that we have. What is the reason for this? Why is it not said to both sides, and especially to the party that is the strong and that bombs the most brutally: stop it there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134546	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134548	So, I do not accept the premise that bombs are most radical, I simply do not recognise that, because I think it is wrong. At the same time, I would also like to point out that in the motion for a resolution No. V 100, on which we agree, there are several points on which mention is also made of what the Palestinians have to do, and Enhedslisten has certainly not said that at all in this context. So I have to tell the rapporteur that you have to eat your own medicine first before you start pointing fingers at others.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134624	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134625	Two things: 235 Palestinians and 12 Israelis have been killed, of course because Israel has a modern army, the Palestinians do not, and that means that if they get into a fight, it is asymmetrical. Israel doesn't have to do that. They're doing it consciously. The second is that in 2014 exactly the same thing happened, and that is why I ask: What is the reason when you say that Israel has the right to exist? Does not Palestine have the right to exist on an equal footing with Israel?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134700	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134700-2	In fact, I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said it quite well, namely that it is a two-state solution that we are working for, there is no doubt about that. And then you have to attack the premise that Israel is just shooting at others, because that is not happening, but they are in a place where there is, you have to say relatively hostile, there is knocking on the door, from all sides of this country, and that is why, of course, they also have a right to defend themselves, if that is what is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134730	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. After a little cleaning, it's sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526134754	For up to 100 years there has been conflict after conflict between Arabs and Jews, and 13-14 American presidents have tried unsuccessfully to broker success. Every time a new conflict arises, there is always some old reason for it to flare up, and this time it has happened in connection with some houses in Sheikh Jarrah in Jerusalem. The terrorist organisation Hamas and Islamic Jihad in Gaza jumped so fast when they smelled riots in Jerusalem, and this was done by firing a total of 4,360 rockets against Israel. Of the rockets, 90% were. However, disabled by Israel's missile shield called Iron Dome. As many as 680 of Hamas' rockets landed in Gaza and thus destroyed their own people. Israel responded again, but with precision, which meant that 200 Hamasterrists have been killed or decommissioned, as well as that 1,500 terrorist targets in Gaza were hit, including 675 rocket launch facilities. It is worth mentioning that, prior to any attack on buildings where civilians live or work, Israel sent a warning that it should immediately leave the building. The warning was usually given about 20 minutes before an attack. Now the killing figures show that there are more Arabic deaths than Israelis. In this respect, proportionality is often mentioned, but proportionality is misleading here, because the reason why no more Israeli lives were lost is due only to Israel's missile shield, Iron Dome, which destroys incoming missiles in the air. Without this right new defense mechanism there would have been bloodbath in Israel today. Hamas and Islamic Jihad are trying to cheat Iron Dome by sending up to 130 missiles at a time. In addition, a great many civilians in Gaza have been killed by Hamas' own rockets that strike on their own territory. It is estimated that some 350 Hamas rockets hit inside Gaza for the first three days of the conflict. Hamas launches their rockets deliberately against areas and buildings where there are many of their own civilians, making it difficult for Israel to shoot back without hitting innocents. Basically, it is not the Palestinian Arabs against whom Israel is fighting, but the terrorists in Hamas who have established their Islamic state in Gaza. Here the terrorist organization holds their civilian population in a crazy religious iron grip. Finally, it should be recalled that in 2005 Israel actually evacuated over 9,000 Jewish civilians in 23 cities in Gaza in a withdrawal from the area that Israel had held since the six-day war in 1967. Israel's withdrawal from Gaza did not get the desired first step towards peace, no, instead the military vacuum was quickly filled by Hamas and thus created another unexpected threat to Israel's security, as Hamas, as we know, demands Israel's total destruction from the face of the earth. Thank you. I have a proposal for adoption which I would like to read on behalf of my own party, the Danish People's Party. Moreover, if I have not taken a position on the other, it is because I have not been asked to do so by Mrs Annette Lind, and I really think that is a little strange when everyone else in the building has got it. I think that should be corrected for the next time. Who knows it could be that I could support it. However, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Parliament calls on the government to condemn the terrorist movements Hamas, Hezbollah and Islamic Jihad, as well as to condemn the countries and movements that equip the terrorists with weapons and money. The government is called upon to state that it is not the Palestinians against whom Israel is fighting, but the terrorists in Hamas. • V 132).
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135237	That will then also be part of the further debate. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135241	I would like to start by saying that when you look at how many people have lost their lives in recent attacks, many, many more, hundreds of people have been killed in Gaza than in Israel, where it is much fewer. Both are tragic loss of civilian life, which should not happen, but 65 children are being talked about in Gaza who have lost their lives. And it is not just about missile shields and such things; it is very much about Gaza being a densely populated area. They don't have any shelters. The families are waiting to be bombed. That is to say, it is so clear a war crime and exceeding all international law that you bomb civilians in the way that happens. We need to have that checked, I think, on both sides. War crimes committed by both sides must be investigated. This will be done in any other conflict. I would just like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether it would not be a good idea at least to examine what has happened here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135338	I don't know who was going to investigate that case. How on earth would you come up with a completely neutral result? Should it be the United Nations which has delivered resolutions against Israel after all, actually up to 400 resolutions against Israel? Is there any confidence that the UN has anything to say in this context? It is the UN General Assembly that we are talking about here, it is not the UN Security Council that might be able to do something sensible together. But I have no respect whatsoever for the UN General Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135413	Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135415	Well, it was supposed to be the UN that was supposed to do that investigation. I can say that, for example, in the Netherlands. The Christian Democratic Party also supports down there that an investigation should be carried out. Both sides would like to be examined. They are on Israel's side, but they would still like to see it investigated. It would be nice if the Danish People's Party also stood there. But now the rapporteur says it should be the UN Security Council. What does the Danish People's Party think about the fact that the United States has repeatedly blocked the fact that the UN Security Council could actually go in and do something sensible in this conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135444-2	I thought what I also mentioned in my speech that the United States has been trying for decades to mediate in this conflict sometimes with success, as has happened in relation to various discussions that have been, but most times it has been in vain. And the United States is the only power that has any chance whatsoever of influencing both Israelis and Palestinians. No one else can. The European Union has been proposed. It doesn't even have on earth. I believe that neither Israel nor Palestine know where the European Union is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135522	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. There are no more brief comments. After a little cleaning, it's sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135547	232 Palestinians have been killed, including 65 children, more are deadly wounded and 12 Israelis have been killed, and every life lost is too much. 1,400 homes are total damaged, 2,500 Palestinians are homeless • it has gone from awful to worse. Unfortunately, the war has strengthened Hamas, and Israel's right wing, headed by Netanyahu, has taken another step in their self-destructive course. They keep each other trapped in their mutual hatred and extremist politics. The only thing we can say with complete certainty, however, is that there will be new wars in 1⁄2 years, in 1 year or in 2 years, we do not know, but we know that a new war will come. Earth is fertilized to new conflicts and new tragedies. The recognised NGO Human Rights Watch describes Israel's policy as apartheid towards the Palestinians, who every day face occupation, oppression, discrimination and poverty. The total lack of hope is a sure ingredient for the coming wars. Israel is an occupying power. There is high unemployment and many live in refugee camps in the West Bank, and Gaza is indeed the world's largest prison. The daily lives of ordinary Palestinians are filled with oppression, humiliation and discrimination. There is such an obvious need for both sides to take an interest and get the dialogue going, but the relationship of power between the two sides is asymmetrical. Sometimes the conflict is presented as being between two equal parties. It's not like that at all. In the West Bank, the Palestinians are pressured to the utmost by illegal settlements and their autonomy is struggling with internal divisions and corruption, and in Gaza terrorists are housed in Hamas. Israel is clearly the strongest party. We have even recently seen Israeli settlers destroying trees given in agricultural support by Denmark, and we have seen that the Israeli military is destroying water facilities for Palestinian agriculture. It has been painful to keep track of how Israeli aircraft have bombed densely built Palestinian territories and how Hamas from Gaza has sent rockets over Israeli cities. Attacks on civilians must always be condemned. Hamas' hatred for Israel is clearly greater than their love for their own people. A two-state solution with secure borders and mutual respect between the population groups is the only long-lasting and civilised way to go. Netanyahu and the right wing are the ones that set their feet for the Israelis and the Palestinians and set their feet for the road to peace. As old as the conflict is, the classic manipulation that the left, because it supports the Palestinians' demands, should be anti-Israeli or even anti-Semitic. Israel's ambassador to Denmark, Benny Dagan, is also blowing to this fire, but that's bullshit. For us on the democratic left, it has always been about Israelis as well as Palestinians having the right to a state, but it is Israel that is hurting itself by doing damage to the Palestinians and to international law. And we have such a right to criticise Israel and, in particular, the Israeli Government. I am offended and appalled when I see so-called Palestinians expressing themselves through violent demonstrations, which in some parts of Europe have ended up burning Israeli flags and vandalism against synagogues. This is completely unheard of, and of course Jews have my undivided solidarity. We have reason to criticise the Palestinians too much, but they are therefore the weak side of this conflict and they need our solidarity, because a oppressed people always have the right to be free. Let me therefore say once again: solidarity with Palestine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135948	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Uffe Elbæk, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526135953	Thank you for the clear speech we are hearing here and I mean it. That is precisely why I do not actually understand that the text agreed by a majority does not mention once that we are talking about an apartheid society. As I understand the rapporteur, he agrees with the Greens that is what it is, and especially the Human Rights Watch, that Israel is an apartheid society. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140025-2	Yeah. As I have even said twice today, both in questions to the Minister and now also in my rapporteur's speech, I am fully aware of the assessment made by the Human Rights Watch. Israel is an apartheid society, and I repeated several times in my speech that every day the Palestinians experience discrimination, oppression and discrimination. But when we make a text for adoption, we go to SF much after we can concentrate on a text that might even move something out in the real world. What we are hoping for here is to move something in the world called the UN and the Commission on Human Rights. So what we are concerned with with this text is partly to make clear some things about opening the blockade of gas, and I think that the text is very much in favour of the rights that the Palestinians must have, and also advocates that we have to search the way through the Human Rights Commission to find out where human rights violations are being committed and who is committing violations of human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140117	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140118	The rapporteur is almost as old as I am, so we remember that there was something called South Africa and that there was a boycott of South Africa because South Africa was an apartheid community. That is why I would like to ask the SF's rapporteur whether, when we recognise that Israel is an apartheid society, we also say that there is a need to boycott Israel, both politically, culturally and economically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140152	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140153	So, I do not think there is much argument for boycotting Israel politically. In other words, regardless of how critical I am of Israel, I also recognise that Israel is a democratic country, a country of virtually none in that region. So I have respect for Israel's democracy at the same time, including the party called Meretz, which the SF leans against. When and how one could imagine that a boycott of trade might come up, I do not think it is appropriate to look at right now, but I would not quite deny that this could be a way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140227	Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140228	Thank you very much. I would say that I do not understand the perpetual attempt of the left to intimidate Israel. I mean, Israel has been attacked from virtually every side of the world through the ages. This time we have Hamas, who has fired over 4,000 missiles against civilian targets in Israel. Recognizes Mr. Karsten Hønge that Hamas has fired so many missiles against Israel and that Israel therefore has a natural right to defend itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140254	I have no idea what the figure is, but I have no reason to doubt it, so let's just take that number as a basis when Mr. Marcus Knuth now knows it; I think that is quite right. I do not remember actually attacking Israel so undefined in this way. I think that I always make a great effort to say that it is Netanyahu, the Israeli right and the fundamentalist religious movements in Israel that are, far along the way, those who are married for a road to peace. As I say, we ourselves have links with progressive modern left-wing Israelis. It may be through the Meretz party, or it may be those with whom we have met sometimes, Breaking the Silence, who are of course present and former Israeli soldiers who are gathered in an organization to tell about the terrible things they have been set to do in the occupied territories. And here we are talking about patriots, for no one can doubt the active soldiers of Breaking the Silence's patriotism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140353	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140355	Well, if I may just ask you a very direct question... Karsten Hønge Israel's right to defend itself? That's what the United States does, that's what the government does, that's what I'm glad about, and we do. It's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140406	Of course, Israel has the right to defend itself, just as all countries do. It's just not at the heart of this, but it's obvious that they have it. Israel must not put up with rockets being sent over them; it is terrorism that Hamas is doing from Gaza; there is no doubt about that. However, if we are to be interested in a dialogue and to start making it a little realistic to talk about a two-state solution, then we will have to remove what fertilizes the earth for future conflicts, and that is, among other things, that Israel is acting as an apartheid state against the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140435	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then it's mr. Henrik Vinther, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140453	Thank you. Thank you for the floor, which I am speaking on behalf of our usual rapporteur, Martin Lidegaard, who is unfortunately prevented from being here. The recent flare-up of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the occupied territories has confirmed what everyone knew, namely that the conflict may be dormant for a while, but that it can flare up at any moment. The consequences are always the worst for those who have their lives and homes in the conflicting areas. People lose their lives or get scars on their bodies and souls, and homes are destroyed. That is why I welcome the broad support for the text of adoption, which is as usual. I must not hide the fact that the Radical Left hopes that it will succeed in reaching agreement within the UN Human Rights Council on setting up an independent committee of inquiry to find out what has actually happened, that we have ended up in the renewed bloodshed. We already know today that both sides of the conflict are helping to escalate it in turn. We also know that the root cause of the conflict is the lack of a Palestinian state in which the Palestinians decide for themselves and that the way to a peaceful two-state solution is to stop the illegal occupation that Israel continues to expand in violation of international law. The fact that Israel has now begun to put Palestinian landowners out of their homes in East Jerusalem is another escalation. All of this runs counter to a series of UN resolutions and has now, together with the incident in the al-Qaida mosque a few days ago, triggered the war-like situation in which Israel and Hamas are fighting each other, but happily at a time when a ceasefire has been concluded. However fragile it may be, it stops fighting for now. We are witnessing the hawks' fight. Netanyahu is pressured domestic politically and tries to show national action, and Hamas fears to lose the Palestinian Legislative Assembly elections, and has therefore postponed the elections time and again and blames Israel fairly or not. There is only one way: Israel lives up to UN resolutions and the parties refrain from further acts of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140642	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we're going to the Conservatives. Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140703	Thank you very much, President. We stand 100% by Israel's right to defend ourselves. In fact, I would like to jump directly to the question I asked Mr. Karsten Hønge. I did very much disagree with the tone of the SF towards Israel, but I am pleased that the SF basically recognises Israel's right to self-defence. For the terrorist organisation Hamas has fired more than 4,000 rockets and grenades against civilian targets in Israel against cities where tens of thousands of civilian men, women and children live. The goal of these massive interventions speaks for itself. It has been killing as many civilian Israelis as possible. I would not know how many innocent civilians would have been killed if it were not for the Iron Dome missile shield of Israel, and of course because Israel defended itself by hitting a large number of terrorist targets inside Gaza. Then I would like to apologise to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the speed with which things were going before the debate on my question on Hezbollah and Hamas. That is what happens when you put the substitute from Lolland to replace a resolution by Naser Khader on Hezbollah. But, of course, the starting point is the same. Hamas missiles from Gaza have been developed in cooperation with Iran, as is Hezbollah's. That is why I also have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party, which binds Hamas, Hezbollah and Islamic Jihad together. The three organizations have in common a desire to destroy Israel as far as possible. Conservatives therefore insist that Israel has been in their right to defend itself, as well as by making needle-stick operations against terrorist targets in such a densely populated area as Gaza, where Hamas has a tradition of hiding their weapons and bombs in schools and other civilian institutions. Israel has a tradition of giving a warning before it hits buildings where there can be civilians, often up to an hour in advance. I think, sir. Søren Espersen said 20 minutes, but in fact I think they gave an hour's warning in connection with the building that was also home to the media, so that you could get everyone out, despite the fact that it also allowed Hamas to move their weapons. However, we agree with the adoption text, together with the government, the Left and a large number of other parties, because we also want a way forward in which both parties deescalate and work towards a peaceful future. We hope that both parties will respect the ceasefire. Too many civilians on both sides have been killed. When it comes to Gaza, there is a risk that it will lead to even more extremism and support for Hamas. So we support the adoption text put forward by the Social Democrats, the Left and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140943	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526140947	Thank you. I would like to follow up a little on the question put by the rapporteur to Mr McMillan-Scott. Karsten Hønge of the SF to recognise Israel's right to defend itself. It is quite remarkable that when Conservatives talk about these things, they are not talking about whether Israel also has the right to massively bomb the civilian population in Gaza and whether the Palestinians have the right to defend themselves as a population when they are occupied by one of the world's strongest military. Those questions need to be asked at the same time in order to have proportions in the discussion. Otherwise, you go out unilaterally and discuss with one eye closed and say: Israel is always right, no matter what they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141034	There are basically two things here. Paragraph 1 is that Hamas is attacking Israel with thousands of missiles. I think it was about 1,000 missiles just on the first day, which they're firing at • and that's point 2 • exclusively civilian targets. They are shooting randomly at a number of cities around Israel with the aim of killing as many civilians as possible. Israel, on the other hand, as I said before, is actually giving warnings to get as much out of areas as possible used by Hamas for their attacks on Israel, and Israel is doing everything possible to limit civilian casualties precisely when they go in and try to hit terrorist targets. I think it is a very, very clear black and white difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141113	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141114	Thank you. I have heard that explanation many times. I do not recognise it, but I would like to ask: should we not find out what has actually happened and what is the reason for what has happened? For there is one reason: Israel's settlements in East Jerusalem in this case. Should we not ensure that we have this investigated and held to account for those who are responsible? In other words, if Israel is a terrorist state, they must be accountable for their actions. If Hamas is terrorists, they must be accountable for their actions. I guess that's why we need an investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141148	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141149	I clearly believe that Hamas is a terrorist organization, but that Israel in no way, as in any way, is the cause of these problems. Christian Juhl and I can at least agree that goes back incredibly many years and is very, very complex. But that does not change the fact that it is Hamas that is attacking Israel with thousands of missiles fired at civilian targets, and there is no way to defend that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141214	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141216	First of all, thank you for a good speech. I was sorry that the Conservatives could not be in on our proposal for adoption, which I sent around, and also surprised by the proposal for adoption that the Conservatives so agreed with, where it says that you should have... resolution negotiations in the Human Rights Council with a view to achieving a fair and balanced resolution So the UN Human Rights Council? There is no company in the world that hates Israel more unilaterally than the Human Rights Council. Should they investigate what has happened in an impartial investigation? I'm surprised the Conservatives are going along with this galley.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141302	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141303	As I said to Mr. Søren Espersen, we have great sympathy for the adoption text from the Danish People's Party, but we Conservatives may be so conservative that we stick to one partner at least at a time and therefore we cannot agree to both texts for adoption, which is why we agree with the adoption text with the government. However, with that said, we also want a process involving the UN, not least because the UN is an important player in the area also locally. All other things being equal, the more you blow to the fire, the more you risk inciting even more young people in Gaza to join Hamas. Then we also need to have a diplomatic approach to this, so that it is not just a matter of time before the conflict escalates again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141355	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141356	Yes, but the Human Rights Council? Now I do not remember today whether it is Iran who is President of the Council or whether it is Saudi Arabia or some other criminal state. Of course it is, because they always have the power to put their own people on. It's a terrible organization! Why are the Conservatives taking part in this with the UN Human Rights Council when it comes to Israel? This is completely incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141423	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141424	We have great sympathy for both the adoption text from the Danish People's Party and the policy of the Danish People's Party, but it is not the case that the UN and human rights are a definite foyword with us Conservatives. And all the other things being equal, we just think that a dialogue that is also taking place in the framework of the United Nations is just basically a good way forward, because we believe that it is a good solution when it comes to a lasting peace that is not about who can kill each other the fastest, but that we do not attack each other again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141456	Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141458	It's nice to hear that even sir. Marcus Knuth can hit the extreme right border and yet say stop nice. I'd like to ask you a question about sir. Marcus Knuths, I think somewhat laxly bordering on the manipulative use of words under the heading: the right to defend itself. Because it is obvious that it is entirely legitimate self-defense that those who own a Dome project can shoot down the rockets. But how can Mr. Marcus Knuth based on what Marcus Knuth said was going to hit the terrorists. Well, I just have to ask, which of the 65 children are terrorists after mr. Marcus Knuth's perception?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141547	I do not in any way pay tribute to Israel's response to Gaza, but I say very clearly that Israel is doing what is necessary to defend itself, and it is also hitting targets inside Gaza, from where missiles are being fired and missiles are being built and stored. Gaza, I believe, is the most densely populated area in the world, and that is why it is difficult to go in and do this kind of needle-stick operation without there being a risk of civilians as well. That is precisely why I think it is right, very good, that Israel should give up to an hour or more warning before it hits a target where there may be civilians. However, in a conflict as bloody as this one, there have been massive losses on both sides, including civilians, and this is very much the case on the Israeli side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141629	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141630	Yeah, it's so objectively wrong. Regardless of the fact that every one of the 12 Israeli lives that have been lost hurts me, there is not the proportionality of that, as Mr. Marcus Knuth is trying to produce here. But it's interesting anyway that Mr. Marcus Knuth still manipulates the words. But I can hear when we find out that there is apparently no external, right-hand border in this question... even the 65 children must be allowed to suffer under the name terrorists. But could Mr. Marcus Knuth is trying to give just the hint of where to move towards a lasting peace and not just a ceasefire? Israel has the right to exist behind secure borders. Yeah. Don't the Palestinians have the same thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141704	I guess it's Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, who manipulates the words. After all, we want a permanent ceasefire, a permanent ceasefire, but when a terrorist organisation launches over 4 000 missiles against Israel, it speaks its very clear language. I don't know how many civilians had been killed if it wasn't for Israel's missile self-defense. Many of these rockets maybe ten times as many were knocked down in random Israeli cities where there are completely civilian men and women and children. I just think we're basically looking at this differently than SF does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141736	Sir. Uffe Elbæk (UFG).
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141739	It was good to hear that the Conservatives are still accepting the UN that was today's good news. Then I also hope that there will be one more, namely that the Conservatives are also in favour of international law. What we are talking about here is that Israel is an occupying power and must meet quite specific requirements in relation to the civilian population who then live in the occupied territories. That is not the case today. So what is the Conservatives' criticism of Israel when it comes to the way in which Israel handles civil rights in the occupied territories?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141819	I could keep up to and including international law, and then I think I got disconnected. Now I do not remember whether it was the word 'terrorist state', as Mr. Uffe Elbæk used about Israel. But now, listen: The basic thing is that Israel has been attacked by thousands of missiles fired by Hamas against civilian targets in Israel. I find it difficult to see that Israel should do anything other than shoot down as many of them as possible; but of course Israel must also go in and try to neutralize some of the targets from which the missiles are being built and fired.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141849	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141850	What I asked was: when Conservatives say they support the UN, I suppose they also support international law. International law makes clear demands and frameworks for an occupying power on how the occupying power is to act in the occupied territories. Israel has broken international law over and over again so what is Conservatives' attitude to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141917	Well, I think I answered that just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141922	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526141936	Thank you for the floor. The questioners ask among other things. on what the government has done to protect civilians, ensure a ceasefire and promote a fair and sustainable solution. Fortunately, a ceasefire has now been concluded and, in any case, what the Danish Government can do is perhaps limited. Developments have thus overtaken the question. In the course of this conflict, Hamas has sent 4,000 rockets against civilians in Israel for the purpose of killing Israeli civilians. Israel has struck back by attacking military targets in Gaza and has done what they could to avoid civilian victims. It is difficult when Hamas deliberately hides and shoots rockets off from schools, hospitals, etc., from which they fire the civilian targets in Israel. It is despicable, and how will Israel be able to make a lasting peace with a counterpart that has Israel's destruction as its declared goal? This is sad both for Israel and for the Palestinians. If the Palestinians are to have a better life, and we all do, they must have a leadership that really wants to make peace for the benefit of both parties. The Israel-Palestine conflict should have been resolved in peace a long time ago. It could have succeeded in bringing about a sustainable peace between Israel and the Arabs. But the Islamic awakening, which speeded up through the 1980s, has come across. The Islamists in Palestine have made possible a compromise on a country for peace, for which Israel has worked since the war in 1967, and Islam has led the war and terror into their own. Because of the uncompromising nature of Islam, the Palestinian territories are today a wilderness of opposing groups, corruption, violence and extremism. It is not a conflict that Israel has left behind, but the conflict makes it impossible to find a peaceful solution anywhere. Now Hamas and Islamic Jihad's military installations and infrastructure in Gaza are badly damaged. Fortunately, in the days leading up to the current ceasefire between Palestine and Israel, the military forces of the terrorist organisation are seriously damaged by Israel's air force. On 20 May, therefore, the terrorist organisation Hamas agreed to stop the rocket attacks on Israel's civilian population. Civilians have died on both sides of the conflict, most of the Palestinians in Gaza, and this is deeply regrettable. Israeli politicians do not always make the right decisions, but I can see the challenges facing Israel. Hamas in Gaza has been judged by the UN as a purely terrorist organisation, and Israel is recognised by the international community as a democracy, a democracy based on secular law. But Israel is surrounded by Islamist movements and threatened by among others. Iran. Israel has Islamist armed movements as neighbours in Gaza, Lebanon and Syria. Israel's defence against an uncompromising and violent form of Islam is therefore essential for the defence of freedom, democracy and the rule of the people. The leaders of Hamas have no respect for human life, just as the Islamic State, al-Qaeda, the Taliban, Boko Haram, al-Shabaab, and what is otherwise called the Islamist movements spread across the Middle East and North Africa. All these insane Islamist terrorist organisations believe that in the name of Islam they have the right to attack, kill and oppress other people. It must be terrible for a democratic country like Israel to have such neighbors. Israel is a young country. The country came into being in the wake of the defeat of the Turks and the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire after World War I, and only after the Holocaust and World War II did Israel gain independence. Israel has the right to live in its own country. It is not easy, but the Israelis have my full support in insisting on their right to live in their own country, and then I can say that New Citizens can support DF's proposal for adoption. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526142352	Thank you. I do not see that there is a desire for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526142419	Thank you. Israel is a friend and an ally of all democracies, including Denmark. Israel is the only rooted democracy in the Middle East and it is a Danish and also a European task and it is also in our interest to support Israel in their legitimate right to defend the existence of the state. There should not be two opinions from KD on this. At the same time, we condemn any acts of terrorism by Hamas, Hezbollah and Islamic Jihad and those supplying them with weapons, and we defend the right to respond. It is a clear fundamental principle of international law that an answer must be proportionate. This means that the costs of, for example, civilian losses must be commensurate with the military advantage sought by the attack. This must apply to both sides, and it is the task of both Israel and the Palestinians to contribute to a two-state solution. This means that Hamas and others must recognise the existence of Israel, that the Palestinians must present themselves with legitimate negotiators and make elections for everyone and that Hamas is disarmed. At the same time, the future Israeli government must stop with further annexations and comply with laws and regulations, whether the government will be led by Jair Lapid or we will have a new government or elections will be held and Netanyahu may be reinstated. It is important to say so, because only in this way can the West and the international community, with legitimacy, contribute to negotiations between the parties. You can understand with your emotions Israelis who do not believe in the debate, and you can also understand those who are looking up against the rockets being fired at civilians. But we also have to say that the line taken under Netanyahu is tragic and wrong. Sooner or later there will be a need for an Israeli leader to have the courage to negotiate with the Palestinians once again, even if this is at great risk. Unfortunately, Netanyahu has only moved further and further away from that side in the time he has been in power. Over the years, he has made it very active and explicit that he will not allow the formation of Palestinian states, and the ongoing conflict was very much ignited by increasing his efforts by opening up to Israel the annexation of settlements that have been built on the occupied West Bank. Thus Netanyahu tried to fish the voices of the ultranationalist wing in Israel, where some are ready to go further and annex the entire West Bank. It is an obligation for Israel's friends to remind them that the country's security is ultimately best guaranteed by a peace settlement with the Palestinians. We, as democrats, must also address the Israelis' democratic attitude. There is a value conflict in Israel's being both the most well-established democracy in the Middle East and, at the same time, keeping the West Bank under military control and Gaza under blockade. Israel, as a democracy, cannot continue to deny the Palestinians basic rights. We hope that a new government will also be a return to all that was lost when Yitzhak Rabin had to die for a cynical and, according to the Shamgar report, politically inspired murder. Both parties must return to the negotiating room and comply with the rules of the game and the ceasefire and, of course, international law, and we support the proposal for adoption which has been read out by Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526142821	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no brief comments, and that means that we are now going to start with some privateists, we are going to reach all three, and we are starting with Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526142846	Thank you. We started the debate with Mrs Annette Lind asking or at least questioning why the Free Greens had not been included in this joint text. We want to be involved every time we can see ourselves in a joint text for adoption, but we could not see ourselves in the text of adoption that came here. Why couldn't we? We could not do so because there is a huge gap between the reality that is taking place in the occupied territories and in Israel, and so the way I can hear we are still talking about it in this Chamber today. It is still the case that you create an illusion or a tale that this is about a conflict between two equal parties, I can hear that over and over again, and it is not. Israel is an occupying power and the Palestinians are an occupied people, and what we have seen over the last few weeks is absolutely heartbreaking. It is heartbreaking and, therefore, when we hear the debate today, there is a gap between reality and the wording and, above all, the belief that the solution is a two-state solution. And I just don't understand, when I hear both SF and also Enhedslisten, that you can see yourself in the text that is here. I am absolutely convinced that the SF and Enhedslisten agree with me in calling Israel an apartheid community. I believe that both the SF and the Enhedslist fully agree that Israel is an occupying power and that the Palestinians are an occupied people. So when we hear and read the text that has been read by Annette Lind, we just have to say that we in the Free Greens cannot see ourselves in it. We wanted us to stand together, but we can't see ourselves in it. So what we are proposing is clear that the government condemns Israel's use of military power in Gaza and East Jerusalem, that the government dares to speak in its mouth and say that Israel is an apartheid community and that the government will recognise that Israel and the occupied territories are currently acting as one state. That is the case. The position of the Free Greens is that all citizens living under a one-state regime must have the same rights, and that is not the case today. So we are talking about Israel as an apartheid community, and what is usually done about apartheid communities? We are boycotting, and that is why our position is that we should boycott both politically, economically and culturally. That is the position of the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143142	Then it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143154	I would say that there is no doubt that we in the Enhedslist believe that Israel is an apartheid society and that what is being done to the Palestinians is totally unreasonable, both in relation to the general human rights repression and the extreme attacks and killing of civilians that we have seen now is quite unacceptable. I also believe that we must have a boycott of Israel in every possible way to push it forward. However, it has to be said that, in relation to what is in this Chamber today and which we are discussing, it is of course a matter of pressing for the lifting of the blockade of Gaza and that we must press for an impartial investigation into the human rights violations that have taken place. And I would just like to ask you: is there anything you can actually disagree with the proposal for adoption? Because it's not an indication that these are equal parties. It says that everyone must comply with the ceasefire, which states that the Gaza blockade must be lifted, that we must work for an investigation and that civilians must always be protected and that international law must be respected. Is there any of what the Free Greens do not agree with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143255	You have to be careful with the direct charges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143258	I don't have a problem with that! We can accept everything in principle, but it is the premise that is the problem in relation to where one speaks from. And I can also hear that from the individual parties who have supported this very, very different point of view. And that is the problem of the Free Greens. I have complete respect for the work that Enhedslisten has done for a long, long time in this area, but we cannot understand from the Greens that this text has been proposed in relation to the scale of the problem and how awful a situation we face when we look at what is happening in Israel and in the occupied territories today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143346	Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143347	Well, I am glad that the rapporteur can also say that this is actually a sensible text. The fact that we look at it differently is absolutely right. It is also our wish that the government should take down and vote in favour of such an impartial investigation of the war crimes committed and so on. But what we've done with this text today... and I think that's important... is actually that we've moved the Folketing a piece of the way. This is the first time we have so many parties to say: we recognise that we must do everything we can to stop the blockade of Gaza and we recognise that we must actively engage in this work in order to have an investigation. I think that is actually a good thing, and I would really like to hear from the rapporteur if that is not very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143425-2	Well, congratulations. Then I can say that the role of the Free Greens, as we see ourselves, is to move the Enhedslisten. And then we can start the discussion from there. What is at least characteristic is that the only time Israel has moved forward is if they have been pressured, it is only if they are pressured. That is why we believe that a boycott was what we should be working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143458	Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143459	With all due respect to Enhedslisten, I think it is a poor project to have as a party that it is about moving Enhedslisten. See, we're preoccupied with something else, and that's why I might be able to sort out some things for Mr. Uffe Elbæk. We and Mr. Uffe Elbæk agrees with the analysis, but then when we come to these questions about why we in the SF do not agree with this very direct text that the Free Greens put forward, I can say that I can actually clarify: that is because we are actually concerned about moving things into the world. We are concerned about moving things for the Palestinians. Sir. Uffe Elbæk is preoccupied with moving some figures for the Free Greens, it is not so interesting, it is more interesting to move something for the Palestinians, and there is a chance that when we make a broad text that can actually affect, for example, the UN Commission on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143543	I hope the SF rapporteur recognises that it was smiling, friendly teasing between each other when I said that the task of the Free Greens was to push the Enhedslisten. I hope that Enhedslisten understood that in this room in all friendship. At least that's what this is all about. On the other hand, I found SF's way of making a strawman impressive. In other words, if you ask the Palestinians in Denmark or down in the occupied area which of the two texts we have been presented here they will vote in favour, I think the Palestinians will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Free Greens. And then I think, and I cannot help saying that now, when I have the opportunity, that it was a paradoxical statement to me when, on the one hand, the SF said that Israel is an apartheid community and, on the other, said that Israel is a democratic society. I do not understand the fact that a link has now been created and a new concept called apartheid democracy has been created.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143647	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143648	Well, I think that both I and everyone else understood that there was a cozy, linguistic trick in relation to Enhedslisten, but what I think there is substance in is • and I would urge Mr. Uffe Elbæk to raise the look and look at it in slightly larger lines than what might be able to move a little opinion figures in relation to Free Greens. We are actually preoccupied with something else that is much more important, but not with having a sharp profile in relation to this or a sharp profile where you can really go out and say: Look what we stand for. But it doesn't move anything. Our text has a chance to move something, because we have gathered a large majority in the Danish Parliament, which can therefore help to move Denmark's position, which hopefully can help to shift the position of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143723	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143724	But I do not wish to question the rapporteur's intention, but the SF questions our intention with what we are doing. Our intention is to create a text for adoption that reflects reality. We have talked to Palestinians, we have talked to the Palestinian representative in Denmark, we have talked to NGOs in Israel and on the West Bank. They say this is what's needed. They say this is what we need, and that's why we say it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143754	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg. Uffe Elbæk I forgot to read up a adoption text, and now I just stumble on the platform again. I hope that's okay?). No. We'll let mercy go for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143827	Sorry, I forgot, and thank you to Mrs Annette Lind, a good teamwork. I hereby submit the following (on behalf of Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)): Proposals for adoption The Parliament instructs the government to: condemn Israel's use of military power in Gaza and East Jerusalem; describe Israel as an apartheid community; recognise that Israel and the occupied territories today act as one state; establish that citizens in the same geographical area have the same rights; and Denmark must boycott Israel. V 133).
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143854	Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526143905	Israel, of course, has a perfectly legitimate right to defend itself. Israel is at the same time we should clearly condemn the terrorist organisations Hamas, Hezbollah and Islamic Jihad. Now it is the case that there is a great imbalance between Israel and Palestine. The terrorist organisation Hamas, with their missile rains over random civilian targets in Israel, has exposed immensely many innocent Israelis to attacks, and it is only thanks to the strong missile defence system that Israel possesses that we do not see massive Israeli losses. Of course, the inconceivable readiness of Hamas to violence means that Israel not only has the right to defend itself, but also, of course, to exercise this right, thereby also destroying the bases of terrorists in the form of installations and houses. However, every time, as has already been mentioned today, Israel has given warnings precisely to minimise civilian losses, and this should be clearly recognised. Having said all that, there is no doubt that civilian casualties and mutilation are awfully painful to witness on which side the losses happen. I think we all agree on that. I support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144053	Thank you to Mrs Inger Løjberg. There are no brief comments. Then I'll see if there are any more privateists. I realized that sir... Sikandar Siddique had asked for the floor, but he is not present. That is why it has to be the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144114	Thank you very much for a good debate and good questions and many comments, which I think are important, in relation to a debate that is of great concern to us. It also shows that today, that is to say, the Israel-Palestine conflict continues to be of great concern to us all. I have explained what the government's focus has been on the Israeli-Palestine conflict following the ceasefire between Israel and Hamas here on 21 May. I've welcomed the ceasefire. It is now essential that the ceasefire be respected so that we can protect civilians, guarantee humanitarian access to Gaza, as several have also mentioned, and, moreover, get a diplomatic process under way. That was also the message of the United Nations Security Council here on 22 May. From the outset, I myself, and also the European Union, have clearly distanced myself from the thousands of indiscriminate rocket attacks by the terrorist organisation Hamas and, incidentally, other militant organisations in Gaza against civilians in Israel. This is totally unacceptable. The government has very clearly stated that we recognise Israel's legitimate right to self-defence in that situation. We have also consistently stressed that Israel demonstrated proportionality and restraint in the use of force. The government will continue, and in particular through the EU and the UN, to address the root causes of the conflict in order to restore the perspective of a two-state solution. This is the only viable way for both Palestinians and Israelis. Finally, I have also emphasised Denmark's humanitarian commitment to Gaza, so I think it is a fine proposal for adoption that a majority of parties have put forward, and I am pleased that we can gather widely in the Folketing about something that is so fundamental and important. And then all forces will move forward to lay the foundations for a peaceful negotiation of a two-state solution in which Israelis and Palestinians can live in peace side by side in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144332	Thank you. There are brief comments. And those who have been signed in so far, we can reach, I see. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144339	Thank you. Could we not say once and for all that both peoples have the right to live peacefully where they live and have their own country and be good neighbours? Well, I mean, there's this asymmetry that's also in the conversation, because it's always in Israel that has the right to defend itself. The Palestinians really do, if we are to talk about defending themselves. And who threw the first stone? Some people in the Old Testament seem to be involved in this, and this can be dealt with forever in this conflict. A conflict started in Jerusalem, and it escalated, unfortunately also militarily. Is it not appropriate to say to Israel: No, it is not okay to shoot civilians? And when you have the most modern army in the world, or at least one of them, you can also stop killing civilians. You should not engage in terrorism, even if you are a modern state. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144440	I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that we fully agree that both peoples, Israelis and Palestinians have the right to live in peaceful coexistence in a negotiated two-state solution in mutual respect for each other and that is the objective. This view that Israel's right to self-defense against Hamas' rockets, which hit arbitrary civilians, must not be stressed, I do not understand Enhedslisten's position. I think it is quite reasonable that if a terrorist organisation should launch rockets indiscriminately against the civilian population in Israel, as we saw, then there is also, of course, a right to defend itself, as well as under international law. That is clear, and that is what I emphasised, and that defence must be proportionate, taking as much account as possible of civilians. We also know that Hamas unfortunately uses civilians as a shield, and that is part of the cynicism behind that terrorist organisation. So I think it's important to have a slightly greater balance in that, sir. Christian Juhl says.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144545	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144546	But what is happening is that we are going to defend Israel's collective punishment of the civilian population, in other words the Palestinians, because there is a terrorist organisation in Gaza. Something else is that I welcome the fact that, hopefully, we have agreed that Denmark will take a more active position tomorrow when they meet in the Human Rights Council. I hope we will have that study; I hope it is a new step and also that we will take a decisive step. I am not sure that the Socialists are in a boycott yet, but it will.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144623	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl, and then we get an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144624	I also said very clearly that we are, of course, engaged in the negotiations on that resolution text within the UN Human Rights Council. And when the text is available, we will take up our position. It must be a balanced text. I believe that what is the danger in such a conflict as the Israel-Palestine conflict is that the extremes are winning over moderate forces trying to find a solution to this. And if the extremes win, one thing is certain: it is further war, further loss for the civilian population. And we must avoid that for everything in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144658	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144659	Thank you. Now it is in the Socialists' proposal for adoption, but I could imagine that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also has a little knowledge of it. It says that we should engage in ongoing resolution negotiations within the Human Rights Council with a view to achieving a fair and balanced resolution text. Is the Foreign Minister fully confident that the Human Rights Council, which in recent years has sprayed almost 400 resolutions against Israel and not one against the Arab countries, will come up with a balanced resolution text? I doubt it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144744	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144745	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. It is important to say that it is countries, including Denmark, that sit on the UN Human Rights Council and that negotiate these texts. And we are just entering into the negotiations, as is also stated in the text of the adoption, with a view to achieving a fair and balanced resolution text based on the principles mentioned above, which are, of course, very important, including the need for civil protection of international law and respect, etc. That's what we're going into. When we have then negotiated and see where it ends, we will take up our position, i.e. whether it is the text that we will support, vote against or abstain.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144822	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144822-2	But why do we choose to point out an institution that Israel hates so much? I know that Denmark is currently involved. There are other sensible states with them. But the Human Rights Council is populated by dictatorship states on a large scale. Even Muammar Gaddafi was President of the Human Rights Council at the time, and we have brought Saudi Arabia and Iran with us. How can the Foreign Minister be confident that this will be balanced?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144854	After all, the Human Rights Council is a council with Member States of the UN. And there it is my position and that of the government and Denmark that we engage with like-minded countries. For example: We also welcome the fact that the United States has reported its return to the UN Human Rights Council, because the more like-minded countries in the Council, the better texts we can get in relation to what we want to achieve. This is also true in this specific situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144918	Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526144920	Thank you very much. I think there are some important things, not least the fact that we need to press more for the lifting of the Gaza blockade. But when we talk about this with an investigation in the UN Human Rights Council, it is also my view that it is very, very important that it happens, that we investigate these attacks. I am glad that Denmark is willing to enter into these negotiations at least and that we have been able to agree on a text for that. I think that is also an important step in the right direction. But then the question is: what is Denmark going to vote? It is already tomorrow when you meet and have to vote on it? And there the Foreign Minister says that we must have a fair and balanced text, because then we can, as it were, go into it. What does it take to ensure that the text is fair and balanced? I think we should have a little more clarity about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145013	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. I also welcome the fact that we have come together for a good joint adoption. In other words, a fair and balanced text is also about the fact that the text must reflect that there are two sides to Israel too, for whom there is also a legitimate need for protection when one is attacked with a rocket rain of Hamas, a terrorist organisation, and that the abuses committed against civilians, whether Israelis or Palestinians, are atrocities which must be avoided as far as possible, in other words, that civilians are victims in such a conflict here. So we'll look at the text from that. If we think it is balanced, then we will support it; if we think it is not balanced, then we will not support it and vote against it. Then there is also the possibility of abstaining. We will also take stock of, of course, what other like-minded countries do, because we will best negotiate together if we have a strong alliance of like-minded countries, not least in relation to the EU countries that are looking at this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145111	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145111-2	But I think it is very central, that is to say, that the human rights violations of all parties must be investigated; and even though I certainly believe that Israel has used totally unacceptable amounts of power, I believe that both parties must be examined here, and that is what lies in it. So I'm kind of happy with the answer. I just hope that the government will not allow itself to be overly influenced by what other EU countries would then have to do. After all, it is Denmark that has a place in the Human Rights Council, and it is we who have the opportunity tomorrow to vote the right thing. So if there is a good text that is balanced, as the Minister says, then I certainly hope that Denmark will vote in favour of having that study carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145148	This is, of course, an important discussion and, as I said before, we are going into this work to find a good and balanced text. How we vote tomorrow must depend on what the outcome of that work will be. Having said that, I would also like to stress in relation to this conflict that what we see when there is war, as we have seen, is that hatred and extremism are increasing on both sides, and it is also Denmark's job to support the moderate forces who want a peacefully negotiated two-state solution and to fertilise the ground for the resumption of negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145222	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145223	The problem with the government's approach is that you don't say it the way it is. That is what maintains the conflict, that is what makes it impossible to resolve it. That is how the world community views it, and you do not say it as it is. Now, in his speech, the Minister used the word 'terrorism' several times in connection with the rockets that are going over and hitting civilians in Israel, but is the Minister prepared to call the killing of 66 children state terrorism? Human Rights Watch says that there is apartheid, B'Tselem says so, and that is why we in the Free Greens say that it is an apartheid state, they must be boycotted, and we must say it as it is, because we can no longer continue as we have done so far. So now I would like to ask the Minister something: is the Minister prepared to call it state terrorism, what the Israelis, the occupying power, are putting the Palestinians through? And if the Minister doesn't...
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145327	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145328	Thanks to the Free Greens. I think exactly what is being asked here illustrates the challenge, namely to address it here in a way that only increases the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Hamas is a terrorist organization, rocket attack by Hamas on Israel, on innocent civilians are terrorist acts. We have the right to protect ourselves in international law too, and this must, of course, be done in proportion and taking into account the avoidance of civilian losses. It is also a well-known fact that Hamas is hiding among civilians, exploiting civilians as shields in allchemy. So I would say that, no, we are not ready to say what the Free Greens want, on the contrary, we are concerned about finding a way to reconciliation and peace between the moderate forces of Israelis and Palestinians, because it deserves the people who have been so hard tested.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145425	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145426	I do not agree with the Minister, because the new thing in the debate here is the approach of the Free Greens, and that is to call a shovel a shovel and a spade a spade. How would we react if 66 children had been killed in any other country, 39 women had died, and 2 000 people had been injured? Then we wouldn't have hesitated. But when it comes to Israel, we hesitate, and then we will not call it what it is. That is the problem. As long as we don't address it as it is, as Human Rights Watch does, as B'Tselem does, we're not going to solve this conflict. I just want you to take responsibility on the Danish side and at least speak it as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145504	Thank you. Then we'll get the minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145505	I think it is important to stress to the Free Greens that any civilian loss is a loss too much, and if there is something painful in such a conflict, then it is when civilians, including children, lose their lives, and we must do everything we can to avoid that. That has been our clear message from the very beginning. That is also the basis on which we say that Israel has a legitimate right to defend itself against the attacks of a terrorist organisation, but it must be done in proportion, and it must also be done in the interests of international law, and civilians must be spared as much as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145538	The last person to make a brief comment is Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145541	It's kind of on the same street. I know that I tire the Secretary of State with all my written questions. I think I have sent ten different questions here recently about what the Minister's position is on the report that has come from Human Rights Watch, where I asked whether the Minister agrees with the conclusion of the Human Rights Watch that Israel is an apartheid community. The answers I received were somewhat like this: on the one hand, I have great respect for Human Rights Watch, but I will not relate to their conclusion. My question is: why can the Foreign Minister not respond to the conclusion of the Human Rights Watch? Do you agree, or do you disagree?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145631-2	I do not want to go into the legal analysis in detail, but what we agree with Human Rights Watch is that there are examples of serious human rights violations in relation to the Palestinians and that, as in the past, we, by the way, on the Danish side and others, have to address them, and we do so, for example, in the UN Human Rights Council. But I am not going to go into a legal analysis which Human Rights Watch bases on its conclusions on apartheid and persecutions and other things, including whether or not the criteria for one crime have been met. We can enter into a longer legal discussion on this; unfortunately time does not allow it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145712	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145713	We may have to take it at another time, but I simply do not understand it. We are talking about the most recognised human rights organisation in the world, which comes up with a very, very clear conclusion. Then it would be no wonder if the government had an attitude and you either agreed or disagreed or you agreed in some areas. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145739	Yeah, but then you start a legal discussion on this. Because what Human Rights Watch concludes from their point of view is that what has been committed against the Palestinians is crimes against humanity in the form of apartheid and persecution. Crimes against humanity are defined in the Statute of the International Criminal Court and are one of the most serious crimes. As I have said, I cannot go into a more detailed legal assessment of what is the basis for the conclusions of Human Rights Watch, including whether the criteria for one crime or another have been met or not, but we agree that there are serious human rights violations. That is why we are also talking about them, among other things. on the United Nations Human Rights Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145816	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we will have the opportunity to conclude the debate by the rapporteur for the questioners. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for actually having the debate over, as much as everyone was given speaking time. Two minutes, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526145838	Thank you for the debate. This is the fourth time we have a question debate on Israel and Palestine over the last ten years. The Enhedslisten has helped raise all four, and we actually think that we are taking nice steps in the right direction. We usually start by asking Radicals and SF if they want to join, and often end up with a text that shifts Parliament's position in the right direction. In our opinion, things are going too slowly, but they are moving. I think we have got new things into the text that would not be possible if we had not stayed at the table. What if the Social Democrats were left to make a text together with Søren Espersen and the Danish People's Party? It would look awful. We will not accept that responsibility. We'd rather take responsibility for trying to get it right. Does this mean that parties lose their identity if they vote for a proposal on behalf of the Folketing? No, of course not. Søren Espersen hasn't changed a dick. The Social Democrats are treading water, as it is called, until tomorrow, when they are going to a meeting. The bourgeois vote in favour, but move remarkably slowly. We would like to hope and believe that this ceasefire will last and that negotiations will begin, but we would also like to hope and believe that this time our government will not abstain from voting on the UN Human Rights Council. That's why we've been trying to make the text that binds them in this situation. We hope that next time we will find ourselves in a situation where we can discuss and begin to see the outlines of the peace that both countries can live in, and that the necessary initiatives have been taken by the world community and the countries that have the power and the opportunity to do so, including Denmark. That is why we think we have come a long way. There is still a long way to go and there may again be a discussion on what means we should use, and the Foreign Minister must also be involved in discussing whether boycott is a peaceful and proper option. We've used that before. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150048	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. We made it all within the time frame. No one else has the floor. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Thursday 27 May 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150059	We just need to move around a little bit, so in a moment we will have questions for the ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150155	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question Time. I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, will be answered in writing. 8-11 on the agenda (pm. No. S 1538, S 1540, S 1541 and S 1554) to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mr. Erling Bonnesen (V), Mrs Karina Adsbøl (DF) and Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen (V) are deleted from the agenda at the request of the authors. The first question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, by Mr Gundelach. Sikandar Siddique is outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150216	Please read the question, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150219	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Minister for showing up. The question is: Will the Foreign Minister explain how much the government thinks climate should play in future foreign policy, and will the Minister clarify what it will have of concrete importance for Denmark's international work and efforts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150240	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique for the opportunity to have this debate today. This is an important issue because the climate crisis has fatal consequences and they are becoming increasingly clear. There is an urgent need to increase the level of ambition globally and to show political action. The climate is therefore one of the main priorities of the government's foreign policy. The foundation stone for the government's international climate action has already been laid with the strategy of Denmark's long-term global climate action from last year, which is well known to the questioner. The climate will also be central to the government's future foreign and security policy strategy. I believe that our management of the climate crisis is a generational contract that we must not break, and foreign policy is a strong tool for promoting the green transition in the world. Even now, the government has made the climate an integral part of Danish foreign policy through the creation of climate front posts and an organisational collection of climate interventions in a new large climate unit. I have appointed a climate ambassador and an active climate diplomacy is under way. We work through the EU, the UN and multilateral banks. We establish green partnerships, among others. with India and others and make action plans with strategically important countries. This is where we combine political dialogue with cooperation at technical level, it creates confidence and it delivers important results. In short, the climate will play a major role both now and in the future in Danish foreign policy. This has consequences across all our work bilaterally, through the EU and the UN, through our partners and in our own priorities of resources in the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150422	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150424	As a starting point, I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister is responding, because the Free Greens believe that the climate should be addressed much more clearly in foreign policy than it is today. This applies both in terms of peace building and conflict prevention, and in terms of helping vulnerable countries affected by climate change to adapt these climate change, because we know that it can create climate refugees, it can create conflicts and it can create migration. At the same time, however, we also know that a large part of climate aid is currently financed by normal aid, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has himself in the past, among other things. In 2010, they called the bourgeois actor in relation to using the normal assistance for climate assistance breakage and a erosion of aid. Therefore, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether the Minister agrees with himself that it is a breach of promise when Denmark pays the climate aid with development funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150538	That was a cryptic question from the questioner. With regard to development cooperation, I must therefore refer to my colleague in the government, the Minister for Development Cooperation, but, having said that, I fully share the desire to look at how important the climate is for development policy as well. Climate change and the climate crisis are helping to push the conflicts that already exist. For example: we can see in the Sahel region of Africa how drought and climate change drive people to flee and lead to conflicts due to scarce resources, and thus we must also address some of the causes of the conflicts, and then we must also get hold of the climate struggle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150619	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150620	When Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen broke with a long tradition of not using normal development aid to finance climate aid, was the Foreign Minister, Mr. Jeppe Kofod, out criticizing it and calling it a vow. Now we know that this year will be 50%. climate aid is financed by normal development aid. That is why I think it is quite obvious to ask: if the Minister does not want to answer whether the Minister agrees with himself or in the statements made earlier by the Minister, can we expect to saddle up and ensure that climate aid is not financed by normal development aid? Can we expect that from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150707	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150708	To the questioner, as Foreign Minister, I would like to stress how important it is to address the climate crisis, including in our development work and our foreign policy. That is what we are doing, among other things. with the climate diplomacy, because the conflicts it creates, including climate change, help push violent conflicts. This helps push for irregular migration, which also threatens us in Denmark. That is why it is a huge priority for the government across the board that we have the climate and climate struggle at its heart. This applies to development aid, and it also applies to diplomacy, such as that for which I am responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150743	The questioner for the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150745	I sense a little that the Minister may have to go back and find out what is going to happen, because I am not getting an answer to my question. Question number two was perhaps a bit of a joke to say that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was out to say that, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was doing, wasn't okay, it was a promise, etc. Now you're in charge. It is, in fact, an appeal from the Free Greens to say that the time is right. We must stop financing climate aid with normal development aid funds and make sure that extra money is dropped. It is an appeal from the Free Greens to the Foreign Minister and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150822	Then it is the Secretary of State for a final answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150824	Thank you for that appeal. Then I would like to stress that Denmark is one of the few countries in the world which has a high level of aid above 0.7%, which is the minimum objective of the United Nations. We are using our efforts in the world, both on aid and on diplomacy and on alliances, to promote the climate agenda, and that is really, really important. I myself recently had several meetings with the new President, Mr Biden's Special Climate Envoy John Kerry, in order to have a strong alliance across the Atlantic, so that we in Europe and the United States can push the big emitters, China, India, South Africa, Brazil and all the others, so that we get them ahead of COP26 in Glasgow here in November.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150908	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique and the Foreign Minister. The next question is to the Minister for Justice, asked by Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150918	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526150923	Thank you. Palestinians in Denmark have recently brought the conflict between Israel and the Islamist terrorist organisations Hamas and Islamic Jihad to Denmark. In several violent demonstrations, Arabs have attacked, among others. The police and in Copenhagen also the Israeli embassy. In Aarhus, the Danes experienced that in connection with an illegal demonstration, Palestinian residents blocked traffic, drove over sidewalks and in other ways endangered the ability of others without East Jutland Police intervention. The police failed to stop the illegal activities. The Chief of Guard at East Jutland Police estimated that it was not considered appropriate. Does the Minister agree with the view of the watchman that it does not serve any purpose to maintain law and order? And does the Minister agree that immigrants and their descendants can apparently afford far more violent behaviour than others without police intervention?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151041	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151043	Thank you for the floor and for the question. We have a good and comprehensive framework for the freedom of assembly and freedom of expression in Denmark, and I think we are all happy about that, and we must safeguard that. Demonstrations must, of course, be conducted within the framework of the law and in good order. Fortunately, this is also the case for the vast majority of demonstrations being held in this country. This is due, among other things, to: In my opinion, the skillful handling of the police. As politicians, I do not think we should regulate the practical handling of concrete demonstrations by the police. Having said that, I would like to stress that, in general terms, I firmly reject the use of demonstrations as an opportunity to commit offences. It is an abuse of our fundamental freedoms. Without addressing the specific demonstration to which the honourable Member refers, I would like to stress that, as Minister of Justice, I have the expectation that the police will take action if there are demonstrators who do not comply with the law in connection with a demonstration. It will always be a matter of police judgement in the specific situation, whether there is a need for police action, and for good reason I will not comment on the police judgements which, moreover, I am not aware of, were carried out during the demonstrations to which the questioner refers. I know, however, that the author of the question has also put a written question. 1108 from Parliament's Legal Affairs Committee on exactly the same incident in which the police will have the opportunity to explain the specific circumstances in the course of the demonstration. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151216	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151218	I now know the Minister so well that I almost knew that this was how the Minister would reply: on the one hand, and on the other, I reject, but I do not want to regulate in detail. That is really what the Minister must agree with me in a politician's answer. Because the fact is, it was an illegal demonstration. The fact is, you broke traffic laws. The fact is that, according to the police, up to 40 cars were blocked and yet no action was taken. This was not considered appropriate. The question is this: is it reasonable that special consideration should be given to Arabs in Denmark? Is it reasonable that there is a population group that can be allowed to threaten to circumvent the law? I hear the Minister say that this is not fair. But at the same time I hear the Minister say: I do not intend to regulate in detail, so I will not do anything about it. If that is not fair, can the Minister not say: what does the Minister intend to do if the Minister himself does not want to go into it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151324	I think it is to tighten it up to say that it was a typical politician's answer on the one hand and on the other. There are various considerations that apply here. In fact, I think, and I think the questioner also agrees, that when the police do their job, the police should have the opportunity to make concrete assessments of how a situation should be dealt with and there may be situations during a demonstration where there will be no conflict stairs. But I would like to say that under no circumstances should special attention be given, as has been said in the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151403	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151403-2	But it seems like it's what you do. Because if you say that there is a risk of conflict escalation among some people, who you know are much more ready for violence than the rest of the population, statistically committing more crime and with whom we have problems in all other contexts, then I understand that you are sitting as a citizen out there looking at this and saying: 'Well, are these just the legal states that we have to live with in Denmark?' And if you have a minister who says it isn't, but at the same time says he doesn't want to regulate the police in detail, which we agree you shouldn't, then what is the minister going to do? After all, this is the responsibility of the Minister for Justice and of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151443	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151444	That is absolutely right. I would also like to say that, in relation to some of the demonstrations that have taken place during my ministerial period, the police intervened when there has been a violation of law when bottles, stones and other things have been thrown at the police, as they must, of course. But I am also saying that, when you are the police in a situation of pressure, it is also necessary to assess: what is the right way to react here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151513-2	It is of course interesting that the Minister brings this example here with bottle throws etc. I fully agree with that, but it is very much the protesters who think of the same ethnic Danes who have much more respect for authority than the segment we are talking about here. So isn't the reality that the police are afraid to escalate the conflict because the police are under the violent veto? And if the police do that, what does that leave us of justice in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151547	The minister for the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151549	No, the police are certainly not subject to the veto of the perpetrators... an expression that I have not heard before, but which actually has something on it. On the contrary. What the police are going to do, of course, when there is a demonstration, to assess what needs to be done by resources in order to deal with the situation too, it had to fail. But it will also be the case that, in the specific situation, there will be political discretion, whatever the demonstration may be about, in relation to when to intervene and when not to intervene.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151617	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. We'll continue with the Attorney General. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund for preparing for the next question, which is Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151636	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151643	Following the Minister's interview in Politiken on 17 May 2021, does the Minister consider that the introduction of muzzle binding is a restriction on the actual freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151658-2	As part of the management of covid-19, the Government has introduced a number of restrictions. This applies, among other things, to: the requirement of a muzzle or visor, for example. traveling by public transport or going to the supermarket. It is not in itself a criminal offence not to have muzzles or visors where it is a requirement, but one is not exempt from the requirement, and if one fails to use muzzles or visors, one can be expelled from the place. And it can be a felony not to comply with such a expulsion. That is why I do not think it is possible to use the term muzzle force used by the author of the question as a reference to the situation we have here. When restrictions are imposed on the handling of a pandemic, it is clear that this is done after careful weighing of various considerations. This applies, among other things, to: the need to prevent the spread of the disease to such an extent that our health services can no longer help those who need it, but at the same time it is clear that there is also serious concern that the Danes, who lack a normal everyday life, are not unduly bothered. In general terms, I would say that the Corona restrictions have not been introduced with an argument to increase freedom, as the questioner seems to indicate. The Corona restrictions have been imposed for inter alia: to maintain epidemic control and to protect the elderly and vulnerable and, at the very least, to protect our society in a vulnerable situation. In fact, I also find it difficult to imagine that it would be the questioner's or, for that matter, the author's party's view that the covid-19 had been handled better without any requirement for muzzles or other restrictions. It is hardly the case, regardless of what concepts of freedom one uses formally or effectively, that the freedom of the Danes is strengthened by dragging the pandemic into a long period or even aggravating it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151842	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526151844	Thank you for your answer. And just to reassure the Minister, I would like to say that no one, including my party, has proposed that there should be no restrictions. The reason why I am asking the Minister this question is, after all, the interview the Minister gave in Politiken, where the Minister makes a very clear dividing line between formal freedom and real freedom. And I think that, at the same time as the Minister gave it a great deal, at least in my view, remarkable interviews, the Prime Minister of the country, who is the Minister's boss, said: putting on a muzzle does not limit my freedom. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister again: does the Minister recognise that it restricts the freedom of the individual, that one is required to put on muzzles, for example, if one wants to go into a supermarket? Not in this way said that it cannot be a good idea to give up any freedom in order to help Denmark through a pandemic, for example. By putting a muzzle on it, I'd be happy to do it myself. But I recognise that this limits my freedom, because I do not recognise it, one day a minister will come and change the concept of freedom. And if it does not limit freedom, what is the real argument for removing it again? Therefore, I think it is quite central to hear what the government's position is and what the Minister for Justice's position is on this issue. So, does the Minister and does the government believe that it restricts people's freedom when there is a requirement to put on muzzles?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152013	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152014	Yes, but I have actually seen the very same statement from the Prime Minister, who says in a debate in this Chamber: I simply do not see that it is an interference in my personal freedom that I have to use muzzles in everyday life if it can protect weak citizens. That's what the PM said. You have to have the last sentence with you. And then there is an expert, who is a professor at the Institute of Political Science at Aarhus University, who runs through this and finds that it is a question of releasing freedom for freedom, for example. I'm allowed to go to shops if you're wearing muzzles. And that is what is at the heart of the matter, and also what lies in the Prime Minister's reflection, that is to say, if it can protect weak citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152106	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152107	That was quite fine, but it did not answer the question. Does the Minister accept that it restricts the individual's personal freedom when there is a requirement to put on a muzzle? Does the Minister recognize that this restricts freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152123	That will be the same answer as what I have just given, namely this distinction which is necessary and which is also being launched in this article. This is the point of saying that it is a question of giving up freedom, for example. gets to go to shops. That is the example that is being set out. You could bring out other examples of this: we have formal freedom to do something, which may seem very interesting, but which restricts the real freedom that we have in different contexts. It can, for example, be done. be able to carry weapons, it can be surveillance, and it can be anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152202	But does the Minister not recognise that it is relatively important to find out whether the government thinks it is a restriction of freedom? It may well be that it is a sensible restriction on freedom. It is also a sensible restriction on freedom that I am not allowed to drive 200 km/h. in my car through Strøget in here in Copenhagen; it is a sensible restriction of freedom, but it is, of course, a restriction of freedom. If the Minister does not acknowledge that this is a restriction of freedom he has not yet given me a clear answer • the argument to remove the restrictions is removed. So can the Minister just reply quite clearly and say: yes, of course it is a restriction on the freedom of the Danes that there is a requirement to put on muzzles?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152234	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152235	It cannot be said that the argument to remove the restrictions is then removed, because it is on the view that the restrictions have been made solely for reasons of freedom, and they are not. They are made among other things. in order to manage the pandemic that we have, to take account of the weakest citizens and to ensure that we get through the crisis that we are facing in the best possible way. That is why we have to ask what considerations have led to the restrictions being imposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152300	Thank you. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and which has also been asked by Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152302	Thank you. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and which has also been asked by Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152307	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152310	Following the Minister's interview in Politiken on 17 May 2021, Minister then believes that imposing an assembly ban on, for example: Five people in public space?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152323	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152324	First of all, I would like to stress that today, as a starting point, there is a ban on organising and participating in indoor events where there are more than 50 people present at the same time. Outside, the ban is, as a rule, 100 people. When we look at the toolbox for handling the covid-19, I agree that the ban on assembly is one of the most intrusive instruments we have. I believe that this limits both formal and real freedom. The ban on the assembly interferes with something very basic for us as people, namely gathering together. We have therefore also had this in mind in drawing up the rules on the ban on assembly, for example. There have been no restrictions on political assemblies at any time, e.g.: demonstrations, or another example: The ban on assembly does not apply in private homes either. As I said just now, it is always a difficult balance to impose restrictions on the handling of covid-19. In Denmark, we have chosen to take account of our elderly and vulnerable citizens, which I think we have reason to be proud of as a society. In other words, we have introduced the corona restrictions on the basis of a desire to have epidemic control, to take care of our health services and to protect our vulnerable elderly people, who have had a serious fear of their lives and health. They have not been introduced with an argument to increase freedom, as the questioner indicates in the question. It follows from the legal framework of the epidemic law that one must always consider whether one can use a less intrusive and more gentle means to achieve the goal. Although an assembly ban is intrusive, I am glad that we, for example, are doing so. We have not had to introduce, for example, a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. Curfew, as has been done in many other countries. I would also like to stress in this context that neither the government nor I want to maintain an assembly ban or other restrictions beyond what is necessary. Therefore, in the government together with the majority of the Danish Parliament's parties on 15 April 2021, we made a plan for phasing out the assembly ban. So far, we have followed that plan and I hope and expect that we too will be able to continue with it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152541	Thank you. Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152543	I would like to thank the Minister for being quite clear on this occasion in his statement that it is, of course, a restriction of freedom and also of the distinction made by the Minister between formal and real freedom, to make an assembly ban. I am therefore glad that the Minister recognizes this, because then there is also the fact that it is extremely difficult for the Minister to maintain that ban longer than is necessary. However, it merely puts the Minister's statements before, when the Minister refused to give the same clear answer, a little in relief. If we go back to the interview in Politiken, which I refer to in the original question, then the Minister says: "There are some who are resourceful where it may be necessary to take some of the freedom to ensure that everyone is free'. Can the Minister give an example of which resourceful people should give some of their freedom in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152632	There are plenty of examples of this. Let us take such a thing as the abolition of the right of reproof. That was a big question. The blue parties were against it. They thought the parents should be allowed to beat on their children. It's formal freedom for the parents to slap loose. Real freedom was given to children because they no longer had to fight. So that's an example. The second example could be whether we should be able to carry weapons on the street. Formal freedom: Yes, we can do whatever we want. Is that real freedom? No, we do not think it is. A third example could be environmental toxins. The left is crazy about environmental toxins. Should you be allowed to make a mess of nature? It is formal freedom, it is not real freedom. There are plenty of examples where we come together and where the Left on formal freedom and we stand on real freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152714	Thank you. There I have to say two things: 1) The Minister refers to some old examples. I ask where there is freedom today, which the Minister believes should be reduced for these resourceful people who are obviously too free, and 2) that I simply know the Minister as a better person than when he stands and accuses a party of being crazy about environmental poisons that are supposed to destroy nature. I mean, shouldn't we just raise the level of the debate a little bit? But I would really like to get an answer to the question I actually asked. What people is it that the Minister is looking at today in Denmark who are these resourceful people where it may be necessary to take their freedom? That is what the Minister said in Politiken. What kind of freedom should be taken, and not what kind of freedom is which kind of freedom should be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152754	I would like to give an example of this, which is an interesting example, because I am afraid that the author's party is on the run here. I, together with the author's party, have also been involved with other parties present in the Chamber to introduce more monitoring, i.e. cameras that are being set up. Do we take liberty from someone who knows? Yes, we do. We do this from some of the resourceful, that is, some of those who may not care if they are being watched. Are we giving freedom to anyone? Yes, we do. That is where we give real freedom, for example. the young women who are afraid, when they go home at night, of being attacked. It is not a coincidence that, for example, there is no such thing as a tax credit. such a movement occurs, or at least a phenomenon such as "Text Me When You Get Home". It's about some people who don't have their formal freedom. And here I hope that there will still be certainty that the author's party will be on the right side of the concept of freedom here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152843	Thank you. Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152845	But that's still not what I asked. So, I ask the Minister: what privileged people's freedom should be removed in the future? The minister hasn't answered me. So now I'm just asking again and hoping to get a very clear answer: the minister is giving an interview in Politiken. It has even happened in his office with an invitation from a journalist, I can read in the article. So it is not such a coincidence something that is given on one of Christiansborg times. This is something the Minister has thought about for a long time. The minister says there are some people whose freedom we need to leave. So I just ask on behalf of those people who might fear that it was them: what kind of specific freedom is the Minister intending to restrict? It can't be that hard to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152918	The minister for last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526152920	That's exactly what I answered. And what is really going to be interesting will be to see whether the questioner, whose party is unfortunately in a wave of law, is holding on and saying: we want to be involved in monitoring so that we protect those who need monitoring, in other words those who are weak, those who are at risk. On the other hand, there will be someone, for example. One like myself, for example. such as the questioner, who does not need the protection that has to be found, that the freedom that we have, that no one is ever looking over our shoulders, is taken from us when we drive on the subway or on the S-train because there is surveillance. This is an example of the fact that the questioner and I are going to give some of our freedom to help some of those who are weak and who need to be given real freedom. That is also why your concept of freedom falls short.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153004	Thank you. There are no more questions from Mr. Morten Dahlin. We'll continue with the Minister of Justice, and this time it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl with a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153022	Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153034	Thank you. The question is: Is the Minister still standing in his opinion from a parliamentary consultation on 4 March 2021, when the Minister said the following: •PET has made its assessment, that is fair enough. It just doesn't fit in with government policy, and we're not forced to conform to what a board might think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153047	Thank you for the question. Let me start by emphasising that, and I do not think anyone is in any doubt about that, but now I say it anyway for the sake of good order, I have huge respect for our intelligence service, the Police Intelligence Service.I know that there is one more person who is making an absolutely crucial effort to take care of Denmark's security and security. We always listen in the government to PET and take note of the professional assessments of the service. The point of the statement to which the honourable Member refers was simply that, as far as the approach of foreign fighters is concerned, it is ultimately the government that is putting the line, and we are doing so, among other things. on the basis of professional ratings from PET. In relation to the three women with Danish citizenship and their children in the camps in northern Syria, PET has now made a new and concrete safety assessment in relation to the overall management of the three women with Danish citizenship and their children in the camps. PET estimates that it is likely that the three women with Danish citizenship will eventually return to Denmark with their children. PET also considers that it would be most appropriate at this stage to seek them evacuated with their children. It is an assessment that the government listens to and acts on, as any other responsible government should do for the safety of Denmark and the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153204	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153205	When I raise this question today, it is of course because it came as a shock that the government made its turn a week or more ago and went from people whom the government itself describes or has described as traitors and whom the government has completely rejected should be actively helped to Denmark, to suddenly after last Tuesday to think that they should be actively helped to Denmark. The government is now launching the whole show to pick them up here for Denmark. And their preliminary 14 children must then, I understand, be distributed around to three of our regions, where a set of rules is to be built on how to try to get these people back into Danish society. It is clear that it is a turning point which is quite, I think, violent and which, of course, has caused some furor in the Danish population. When we look at what the background really is, it is this PET assessment, which the Minister of Justice also mentions here, that is being used as the main reason why the government is changing its policy so fundamentally. It is therefore interesting to see that on 4 March the Minister of Justice had this statement about PET, where it was actually said: it may well be that PET has an assessment, but we as a government are not forced to follow it; we are not forced to follow what a board of directors might think. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Justice: can the Minister for Justice not see, if you just tried to look at it a little at a distance, that this might look good for many people, as if this PET thing is really something you use one way or the other, where it might be opportune for your interests. Now it is actually being used as an argument for changing attitudes. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, However, it may in fact just illustrate that it is the government that has in fact made a new political decision and that many may rightly be left with the idea that it is not at all because of PET's new assessment that you change your mind, but that it is perhaps because the government wants to save the Minister's own stool.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153404	That is really funny, because when we had made the decision like that, we were wondering: What are we now facing with questions? And now a week has passed well before it comes, and I actually think it is a good and relevant question and that it is well seen. I think that the difference is that my statement falls within the context of the general assessment of the terrorist threat in Denmark, which lies in what is known as the assessment of the terrorist threat against Denmark 2020•, where a whole lot of things are said differently. The second is that we are explicitly asking PET to assess exactly this situation in order to be able to act on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153446	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153448	But the Minister therefore agrees that it is ultimately a government decision whether you intend to take to Denmark those who you yourself described as traitors in the past, and when the government chooses to do so, it is wrong when you choose to lead PET before you, because then the government should take responsibility for itself. And would the Minister not think that what was actually done last week was to a large extent that one was merely following PET's assessment as an argument for changing one's position, while, in March, one refused to base PET's assessment on the fact that it was not forced in any way to simply follow what a governing body thought?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153525	No, that's where I think the cards are being overplayed. In fact, I think that what we are saying to PET is that given the situation we are in now with the task force's work, it will then be most safe for Denmark, because that is really only what we ask PET to leave the three women and their children in the camps in Syria, or it will be most safe for Denmark to take the three women and children to Denmark. That's what Special Branch is assessing. And there I think that the specific safety assessment will be difficult to ignore, and I certainly do not think that we are pushing PET in front of us. Moreover, many questions have also been asked, including to PET, whether it is felt that the government has put weights in their scales, which they reject.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153609	The next time PET makes an assessment, will the Minister of Justice follow that assessment, or will you return to the point of view of 4 March, namely that you are not in any way forced to follow PET's assessment, because you do not have to do what a board might think?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153625	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153627	I thought I was trying to answer that in my introduction by saying that we attach enormous importance to what PET says. When there is a concrete assessment of the situation here, I think that a government should follow it and that it would be extremely difficult to ignore it if PET were to say that this is thus the most safe thing for Denmark. It is not, of course, the same as not being able to say in a constitutional way that we are not going to do that anyway. But I think the situation is different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153655	Thank you. The question has been answered, so thank you to the Minister for Justice and to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. The next question is to the Minister for Health, and this has been asked by Mrs Inger Løjberg, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153709	The next question is to the Minister for Health, and this has been asked by Mrs Inger Løjberg, outside the Groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153717	Can the Minister tell us when the government intends to convene a discussion on the Danish vaccine from AdaptVac?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153727	Thank you for the question, which is quite specific, namely whether or not I can make a date. And the answer must be: No, I can't set a precise date. However, I can state, and I would like to do so, that the government will of course follow the agreement on the reopening of Denmark, which was concluded on 22 March 2021 by a large, large majority in the Danish Parliament with a large number of parties, which states: "The government is working actively to ensure a stable supply of vaccines to Denmark, including in case of need for re-vaccination etc. as well as contributing to global vaccine cooperation. The government will involve the parties to the contract in the work. I have also said this many times before, and I would also like to reiterate this, namely that there should be no doubt whatsoever that vaccines are our top priority. And throughout the epidemic in Denmark we have searched the possibilities to secure as many vaccines as possible against covid-19 as possible to Denmark. We have a vaccine strategy based on four legs: 1. Commercial vaccine production in Denmark focuses on commercial production on Danish soil. 2. Support for Danish vaccine candidates It is here that this could be interesting with searching for needs and opportunities to support the long-term development of vaccine candidates. 3. Support for research and innovation. 4. European cooperation to jointly purchase vaccines and strengthen our vaccine preparedness across the EU. Let me conclude by emphasising that this vaccine candidate, who is being asked about now, and the development work that is being asked about, is a development project here and now, it will not be able to help us through the current situation of the epidemic, but it may prove to be beneficial in the long term, and therefore it is clearly a relevant question and a relevant clue to continue working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526153921	Yeah, well, I'm glad the Minister recognizes that's relevant. Because it must be said that, in addition to the fact that the government has taken a great deal of pride and praised itself for its efforts in the field of corona and its consequences, it must be said that when you look at this precisely, I think that exactly the development and support and funding of AdaptVac has received some kind of, I think, spatial treatment of the government, and I simply cannot understand that. Everything suggests, when you look down in this case, that for some reason the government and the Danish authorities, either intentionally or by mistake, have simply chosen to turn a blind eye to the blind eye, turning a blind eye to what is otherwise a very promising Danish vaccine. And I have to say that when I first heard about this case, I thought it simply cannot be right. And then I sat down and read everything I could possibly find about it, and among other things. The newspaper Information has believed it, or don't, because it is not usually my court media that has had a number of articles where professionals have spoken out about it here, and frankly I have to say that I am simply shocked by the government's and government's actions in this matter. That is why I would just like to say once again that it may well be that the government and the Minister cannot say exactly when it is called. But I think we should be able to say a little more about what we expect to do in relation to such a promising Danish vaccine as this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154122	Yes, there are some rules on procurement in the EU, and there are also some rules on state aid. And it is clear that this is not a completely uncomplicated set of rules. But what we are examining in concrete terms is, of course, in relation to the stage at which the vaccine is now being administered, that is to say, the stage at which development is now taking place and the stage at which it is going to enter, whether we in Denmark can support it with specific amounts. And, of course, we are also examining what requirements may be made in this regard for the option of first purchase or otherwise, if it turns out what we're hoping for is for this vaccine to be developed and for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154203	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154204	But this is exactly the same as what the Minister was trying to say in a consultation not long ago. But it came to nothing because we can show that it has happened in other countries. After all, there have been no problems with EU aid rules and such things. So let me just mention briefly: England and France, and I also think that the Netherlands has been involved in supporting some projects. And that's why it really surprises me why the Danish government is so long-suffering compared to a paper that looks like it's really good project.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154241	I hope it is also a good project. And now we come to the next question of part of the content of the independent investigation we have initiated. One thing is that Mrs Inger Løjberg and myself and others may think it looks good on paper, but it is probably better to get some independent experts to assess it. And this has just been done, and that is exactly what needs to be the basis for an objective and proper decision on the possible support of this vaccine candidate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154309	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154310	So now it is not exactly the content of the study that we are discussing here; now it was a question of whether it could be supported or not. That's what I was asking about. Why can other countries do so, when the Danish government, which has to be said, has prided itself on being completely ahead and extremely capable of dealing with all this at least when you hear the government itself doesn't? Why, on earth, has a vaccine such as this on Danish soil been treated as stepmotherly? Other countries have been able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154344	I do not agree with the words that are being said about this. The fact is, however, that, as the European Commission has also indicated, there is a grey area here and that the Commission believes that it is in the spirit of the provision that national negotiations should not be opened when preliminary discussions are taking place at EU level. That's exactly where we were. Our board had an assessment. At the end of the day, at least, no agreement was reached on the part of the European Union, and when it became clear, we started work on whether we can support it here and whether it makes sense to support it. And there is now also a report on precisely this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154424	Thank you. That was the last answer to that question. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health, and which has also been asked by Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154432	Thank you. Does the Minister wish to elaborate on what is stated in the independent report that the Ministry and the health authorities should have prepared about the possible vaccine from Bavarian Nordic?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154446	I would very much like to elaborate as much as I can. But I would also ask you to understand that we are dealing with technology and vaccine development and with the people behind AdaptVac and Bavarian Nordic, i.e. large, large companies and also large investors, who have contributed to an independent study by a consulting company with a clear premise on the matter, and that is probably the difficult part that the content has to be subject to confidentiality. Otherwise, you can risk that many things can then be wasted; investment, research or other. So that's why we need to have some kind of confidentiality. In opening, I would like to say that the evaluation is positive with regard to the vaccine, and the assessment concludes that the technology on which it is based makes the vaccine more versatile, easy to modify and is precisely therefore applicable to mutations, that is to say that it can be modified. That's some of what we're looking for. And the assessment also shows that this same vaccine technology is already used in other approved vaccines and is considered safe and associated with a high immune response. That too is positive. According to the assessment, there is nothing technical to prevent us from working on the possibility of supporting the vaccine. And I can't go any further, but that's the conclusion. It is, I think, a very positive assessment, a very positive conclusion, and that is why we are also working on, in concrete terms, the possibility of supporting the vaccine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154625	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154626	That is precisely why we may wonder a little bit about the fact that we have missed out, I think, the opportunity to come to the forefront with this: that we have given a step-motherly treatment, quite unlike other countries, which have been able to find out how to challenge EU aid rules as well. You don't have that on the Danish side. It has been extremely difficult to get the government to admit that part of it. This has required consultation, and I know that the Danish People's Party's health rapporteur has been very careful to ask questions about these matters. And despite that, it has been extremely difficult to get the government to come and put the cards on the table. And then, of course, you don't want to put the cards on the table in relation to this vaccine and the report that you have. Because in what the Minister says here, there is nothing new for me. For all that the Minister has said here is something that can be read in newspapers and magazines, namely that this is a very, very promising vaccine which, in addition to many of the excellent things that the Minister has mentioned, simply has the enormous advantage of it, for example. can be stored at room temperature, which means that it can be used in a number of countries where it is otherwise difficult in relation to the infrastructure that it probably only has to be given once, that one is protected for 10 years. And then there is also the whole question of how it is easier to modify against mutations, which is one of the things we must say we have dealt with and which has cost us several billions at home. It is just to say that the Minister has not brought anything new today. On the contrary, and that is what I do not understand in this matter: why do we constantly have to try to push things out of the government and start to drill ourselves into it instead of having a government that is at the forefront in this area and that wants to do this and that will support a Danish vaccine that is potentially pioneering.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154843	After all, the government has a vaccine strategy based on the four legs I mentioned in the previous question. And of the four legs there is one, with a little good will in fact two legs, which addresses support for the development of Danish vaccine candidates, both on the research part and also the test part of it. And that means that both are covered by our vaccine strategy in Denmark, and that means that both are one of the things that we are working very hard to make a decision on on on the basis of the report on which this issue is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154923	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526154924	Well, maybe you should have put a fifth leg on this strategy, if that meant that you actually got a little bit on the steppes. Listen to this: there was an urgent request in the Danish Parliament on 17 March, which also spoke positively about the financing of the development of the AdaptVac vaccine and the fact that it would come within a few weeks. It was 2 months ago now 2 months ago! At the same time, the Danish Parliament's parties sit very broadly and follow it. I helped call for a consultation, which both the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and I called for. Well, I don't understand the long-suffering of the government in this, and we're facing a potential scandal, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155013	You have to be aware that this vaccine candidate is still away at an early stage. There are positive tactics and clearly a positive assessment, which I think I explained as loyally as possible. And that is what we are ready to make decisions on the basis of. The independent evaluation of this vaccine was launched in March. But whatever we decide this spring doesn't matter in relation to the vaccines we have for the Danes in 2021. So it is in the longer term that it may be relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155053	How does the Minister think he would have reacted in other countries? In other words, how does the Minister think it would have reacted in England or France or the Netherlands, which, as I know, has not held back from supporting their own national projects? Which also shows that there is nothing to prevent it. Despite the fact that the government has said, in the first place, that it could not just do so, other countries could do so. And suddenly: Well, maybe we could have done it in Denmark too. But you still haven't done it. I mean, I don't understand that long-suffering, and I just want to warn once again that we can face a potential scandal and this could slip away from Denmark. I hope the Minister and the government are aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155135	The minister, the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155136	Well there is and has been, for months, close contact with the company behind AdaptVac, and we are well aware of the situation they are in, and the need for there to be clarification soon, in relation to whether Denmark sees it as a realistic opportunity to report to them that investments can be made. And that also requires us to clarify which things we then buy in on. Do we have pre-purchase agreements and is there a requirement for Danish production? Such elements also need to be clarified. And that is precisely one of the things we look forward to discussing with the Danish Parliament's parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155217	Thank you for that, thank you to the Minister for Health and to Mrs Inger Løjberg. The question has been answered and we move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155237	Here you go for the reading of the question, sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155245	Thank you. How does the cultural area form part of the government's application for recovery funds from the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155258	The cultural area is part of the overall Danish recovery plan as an integral part of Danish society and because of the important role that cultural life also plays in restoring our society. The Danish recovery plan has a clear ambitious green profile and contributes to a green digital reboot of the Danish economy, which will benefit the entire society, including the cultural area. This broad, cross-cutting social perspective is reflected in the recovery plan, which is based on the 2021 Finance Act and the sub-agreements on the green restart of the Danish economy. With the plan, these initiatives are financed by the many green agreements concluded by a majority of the Folketing with the government at the end of last year, including agreements with the Left. The recovery plan has had to meet a number of requirements with a focus on creating growth and jobs and promoting green conversion and digitalisation, i.e. objectives that are also central to Denmark's cultural life. Among other things: The plan, which is now under assessment by the Commission, must take account of the country-specific challenges and how much money can be allocated. Therefore, the plan contains objectives in the fields of health care, agriculture, the environment, climate partnerships and green road transport, digitalisation and green research. In addition to these general cross-cutting objectives, a majority in the Folketing has also made agreements with the government to allocate 4.5 billion. kr. for the restoration of the cultural sector after the pandemic, but initiated and financed by national funds. I can add that a Nordic report produced by the Nordic countries shows that, out of the measures that have been taken in the Nordic countries to hold hands under the culture under corona, Denmark has been the country that has given the most support to culture in crowns in ear. If I'm going to understand the question, sir... Kim Valentin very much wants the money to be DKK, and of course I have encouraged the cultural actors in Denmark to also apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155511	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155512	Thank you for your answer, Minister. The Council conclusions actually recommend that EU countries take advantage of the EU recovery facility to promote the recovery of cultural and creative sectors. If you read through the 342 pages, there is no culture at all once. It doesn't say culture at all. Yes, that means that it says agriculture, but it is something quite different, we know that, and we on the Left support it 100%. But culture is not mentioned on the 242 pages. Not once has culture been mentioned. And it's just wondering. Is it deliberate that culture has not been mentioned at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155606	Well, I am really surprised that the rapporteur, as the EU rapporteur for his party, is puzzled, because then I apologise if I say things that are self-evident. However, as I have been told, the process of recovery plans is not sector-specific. This means that there must be a focus on cross-cutting, broad considerations which can benefit more sectors in terms of growth and employment, and there are also several of these cross-cutting focussing, for example. the green transition and digitalisation, which is certainly possible for culture to both seek and benefit from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155644	Yes, but that is quite right, and it can therefore be said that no areas should then be mentioned at all. But the government has just mentioned a lot of areas without mentioning culture. That's why I'm surprised. One can also say, as the President of the European Parliament did at the beginning of the year: we must think of culture not only as a focal point for recovery, but also as the social cement of a post-covid-19 world to be rebuilt. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155715	Of course, I and the whole government, and I also believe that large parts of the Folketing and even more out in the population, have realized just how much culture is missing when it is not there. That is also why culture is something that we have worked together to keep our hands under. In the context of the European Union, culture is also something that is nationally organised and managed. So with that look, I think this recovery plan will allow culture to apply to it, and otherwise there's this programme... Creative Europe with a historically high budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155752	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155753	Yeah, well, I respect the answers I get, Minister, but it's kind of like you're trying to explain your way out of it and you're saying: well, we're not really thinking about that at all, but we're gonna do that in the future, so, hey, we've been thinking about it here and here and here. Can the Minister not understand that one might have the idea that culture is not mentioned at all on 342 pages, and then one stands here and says: Well culture, we think that everywhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155821	No, actually, I can't believe you get confused about it. Because when the reason for this recovery plan is that it should not be sector specific, and at the same time we have made these very, very generous aid packages. We have needed it, and we have really put our hands on it to keep our hands on culture and support this historically high budget for Creative Europe, then I also believe that the Danish Government has played a role, its role, the role to be expected, in ensuring that there was money to support, but now also restart culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155902	Thank you, Minister. The next question is also to the Minister for Culture, and it is also asked by Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155904	Thank you. What has the Minister done to involve culture, sport and civil society in the application for recovery funds from the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155918	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526155919	The Danish EU recovery plan is based on input from the restart teams and the climate partnerships set up by the government. Here there is a broad representation of companies, business organisations and the social partners across sectors that have been able to deliver concrete proposals to the government in order precisely to create growth and hold hands under Danish jobs during a difficult time, including, of course, the cultural sector, which is one of the sectors that has been hard hit. In addition, there has been dialogue with a large number of stakeholders, including from civil society, who have submitted initiatives to the government. Of course, the government has taken them into consideration, and there has also been an online dialogue meeting on 26 February in collaboration with the Commission's representation in Denmark on the Danish recovery plan with several hundred representatives from civil society. The process of the Danish recovery plan, as we mentioned in the previous question, has not been sector-specific as it is intended, but has been organised with a focus on the cross-cutting broad considerations of promoting growth and employment. It is the Ministry of Finance which has put together initiatives for the government to comply with the rules, requirements and plans of the Commission, and it is also my impression that culture will be able to seek and benefit from a number of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160041	Thank you, Minister. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160042	Now we have heard that there is no room for a single comment on culture on 342 pages. Then, as an interest organization, I would sit back and think: well, I was involved in February, but I couldn't really see that when I saw this application, because there is no mention of culture anywhere; culture is not mentioned in a single place of 342 pages. Can the Minister mention one place where the Minister can say with certainty: here is culture further in the process of recovery funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160127	Thank you very much. If there is something we have learned here during the Corona crisis, then it is precisely that culture is a profession in line with all other professions and, in fact, it is best in such a crisis by being equal in its compensation, in its access to schemes, with other professions, and then you have to meet all the specific criteria that exist, but that is really what this recovery plan is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160155	Well, that's where I was hoping the Minister would say otherwise. But it's not a secret either. 57% of all the funds in a recovery fund application must be spent on a green and digital conversion, and the Minister could have chosen to think culture in there. 'Cause I know they're gonna take part in that job. Could the Minister then say: yes, it is true that they should?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160227	Yes, the Minister can say that, and the Minister has also said so. That is to say, I have said that, I'm sorry, we shouldn't be too kind, I was just saying, in the indictment form. But I have, among other things. met with Sustainable Scene Art and a number of climate organisations that are working on sustainability in the cultural field, and therefore I am confident that these funds will also include cultural actors who want to and how to realise them. At the same time, therefore, we have a Creative Europe as the cultural programme of the European Union, and we have the national aid packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160303	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160304	Then I suppose the Minister will sit down and say to culture: I know I haven't mentioned you anywhere in these 342 pages, but the intention is that, when we get the money, you should participate there and there. Can I expect such an attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160322	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160323	When the money was set aside for a Creative Europe, I was just out calling for these funds, and when this money is so translated into an application, I will of course also do everything I can from the Ministry of Culture to ensure that the cultural players are aware of where they can apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160342	We thank the questioner. And I'm gonna ask the questioner to clean up the platform after him. It's so good. The next question is addressed to the church minister, and that is by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160412	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160416	Thank you, President. Does the Minister agree that it is problematic if the church as an institution can be associated with a certain ideological position, for example when Bishop Peter Fischer-Møller says that there is no limit to what the church can relate to and believes that the church should, for example, have an attitude towards both dietary and climate policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160445	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160446	I am sure the questioner is aware that no individual or group of people can speak for that matter on behalf of the entire church. So when one or more priests or, for that matter, other members of the public church speak on topical or political subjects, it is not the same as, and can never be interpreted, that the church as a whole is associated with a certain ideological position. But the people's church staff, including clergymen, have of course, like all other opportunities to express themselves on their own behalf on various subjects, including political and ideological ones, and there have been repeated examples of this, among others. The clergy of the people's church also as individuals have not only participated in the public debate, but have also been appointed and elected to the Folketing and the European Parliament from parties as different as the SF, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Danish People's Party, without having been perceived for this reason as being made on behalf of the people's church. The fact that the church can thus embrace all sorts of different views and opinions, I think is actually a good thing, and I do not think that is problematic for the priest or the church or for freedom of speech. On the contrary, I think it is quite natural for committed priests and other employees to take part in the social debate, and it would be inappropriate for us to restrict them from speaking about private individuals merely to prevent what might be said from being a concern about whether they spoke on behalf of the people's church. They never do, and there are no people or groups who can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160623	Thank you, Minister. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160624	Thank you. That must be a very, very long answer to something that could have been a yes. So, on the basis of what the Minister says, I must basically take the view that she agrees that it would be problematic if the church as an institution had a political attitude. That's how I hear it, and that's good, because that's how we agree. What is then the question is how, as for example, the bishop should behave in the cross-field between private person and function. Because I assume that the Minister also agrees that if you, as a bishop, mark strong political views, it is not entirely fantasy to think that someone could get the idea that it is the church that takes the view. So I would like to hear a little bit about what the Minister has been thinking about how to separate the institution and the person or function and the person. Because we agree that as a private minister, as a bishop, or whatever it may be, you can have all the opinions you want, and I think it has been a long time since we have had a Parliament as empty to priests as today. My party has delivered and the minister's party has delivered, and it has been very good because there has been no doubt that this was the priest's point of view. You must then answer to the congregation, but it was not the church. It is different when we hear what, for example, is happening. Bishop Fischer-Møller says about the people's church's relationship with climate policy, with dietary advice, etc., where one can at least get the impression that there is some kind of confusion about what the minister would consider to be his personal views, and then his benevolent views, and that is where I would like to hear whether the minister could be a little more specific about how one distinguishes between the two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160825	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160827	Specifically, the priest has a freedom of service, which is about what he or she can say when preaching or speaking in connection with church activities. When you say what you are going to do outside of the conditions, the speech that is happening there, it is not the church minister who is thus overseeing the bishops. On the contrary, it is something for which they are elected by the congregation, and so it is also the congregation that they must vote their opinions off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160907	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160908	But when Fischer-Møller, for example... I quote that we must engage in a matter relating to the Church's nature in reference to climate policy, so it cannot be understood in any other way than that we are we, the ecclesiasticals, we, the bishops. It's not like we're parished in Roskilde. And that is why I think the Minister must be a little bit more clear about, also in order to be able to give a lecture to the bishops how to separate person and function.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160940	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526160941	There will be my teaching that I have the expectation that in their case they will agree with their founder. In concrete terms, in this case, I cannot say exactly where Bishop Peter Fischer-Møller has said this, but I know that he is, for example. is also organized in an association of ecclesiastical people who call themselves Green Church, which is precisely different people within the church who want to work for the green transition. And if he speaks on behalf of them, one can say that we have no doubt as to whether it is the entire church. But that depends on the context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161016	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161017	At Folkekirken.dk there is an article in which Fischer-Møller simply links the current climate change with the end of the earth, i.e. with ecclesiastical or, at least, Old Testament texts that describe the apocalypse. And it is, in some way, a rather violent interpretation of the text which might lead somebody to believe that a certain political point of view, which is about species extinctions etc., is therefore something that can be supported in the will and that consequently it is spoken on behalf of the church. Don't the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161054	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161054-2	Yes, but I would say that in my time as church minister I have come across many different peoples within the church and also other religions, which also justify a position that may be political, ideological, in something from the Bible, and there I have actually laid as such a basic preface that it is precisely the diversity that we would like to have, as long as we have common rules and guidelines on how we respect each other's diversity and disagreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161125	Thank you to the church minister. The next question is also addressed to the church minister, and it has also been asked by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161132	Here you go, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161134	Thank you, President. If the church as an institution is associated with certain ideological views, such as climate and dietary advice, where does the church minister mean that those members of the church who do not agree with the line in question should go to celebrate high Mass or meet soul breadwinners?
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161149	Thank you, and here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161150	As I said in my answer to the previous question by the author, the church as an institution cannot be associated with ideological views on anything. There is not an individual or a group of people who can speak on behalf of the church. It is just a popularly founded church in all its diversity. So there is also a long tradition in the church of spaciousness and freedom and the possibility that different church views can be accommodated and unfolded within the church. I think that's a good thing. I think the questioner does. When the church services are public and everyone has the opportunity to go to the high Mass in the church you want, you can also choose the preacher you want to hear. If you as a member of the church want to associate with a priest other than that of the parish, you have the opportunity to do so by loosening parish bonds with that priest. It is an opportunity that has existed since 1855, and that must allow a member to choose his priest from where the priest is. By parish bonding, the priest to whom you are attached takes over the obligation to provide church service in the form of soul sorrow and other things, but there is also the possibility that you can engage in the church council and thus participate in choosing the next priest, or that, where there are several priests in the same parish, you have priests with different attitudes, so that in the parish where you now live you can choose to hear different commands on the interpretation of the message of the people's church. So, in my opinion, there are very good conditions for members of the church to find a priest with both a theological direction and perhaps also what can be said about a social interpretation of theology which corresponds to the member's own.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161341	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161342	Thank you. Well, that is the big question, because there is no problem in finding a priest who has a point of view, I think there is something about what you think. There is just a wide variety of priests. We in the Danish People's Party have had Mr. Søren Krarup and Mr. Jesper Langballe as members. It will also be noted to the Minister that Mrs Margrete Auken in the very other ball street I dare almost say: in every respect a completely different ball street has been a member of the Folketing, and it can easily be included under the public church, as long as the church cannot be associated with certain general views. The verb is not chosen by chance here. I am not saying that the church has adopted a certain political position, but I think there are quite a lot of people, especially of a national conservative mind like myself, who, when they listen to at least the majority of bishops and, indeed, the Roskilde bishop here, have the idea that there is a general line for the people's church. When you have ringings to mark a particular climate policy alertness, when you have gatherings for the People's Church's Emergency Aid, which undoubtedly leads a left-wing dogma, then it is not so completely grasped out of thin air that you can get the idea that above the individual parishes there is a certain political direction. That is where I would like the Minister to be a little more faithful to his original reply five minutes ago and to say: yes, it is a problem if the church of the people can be associated with a particular political direction, and therefore it is a special responsibility, as a bishop in particular, to state politically that what is expressed is, in other words, on its own behalf, and that it does not know either positively that it would or just does not think about it gives the impression that there is a special connection between the Gospel and one's political views, as we have seen in the case of the Roskilde Bishop, but also that there is no particular connection between the office that is being smoked and the political positions that one may have in private.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161542	Thank you to the questioner. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161545	If there is anyone out there who is in doubt, I would very much like to repeat that there is no person, nor any group of people, nor do I think there should be anyone who can draw the people's church into its unity. On the contrary, there are a large number of organisations, and it is just not my job as Minister that I actually do not think it should be to supervise whether priests can be part of groups that may promote, for example. or it may be something green, or it may be family soul grief, as there may also be political opinions as to whether the church should do. But it is the essence of the church that you can have that diversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161623	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161624	I don't want to go into what priests can think, because there are no limits. Theologically, of course, it should be within the confessional. But what we are talking about are the bishops, who are overseeing the priests, and who therefore have one, you can say, overall status and also typically a more prominent status, but where at least some have very difficult, I think, by making it clear when they say whether they do so on a Bible basis or on a political basis. If the Minister thinks what the Minister has just said, she should be interested, with me, in saying that it is necessary to separate the two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161703	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161704	I believe that one can be completely in agreement, as we are, that there is no person or group of people to draw the church, because the church must be popularly organized, but at the same time believe that this popular organisation is also the way in which priests and bishops and provs and all sorts of other employees in the church are kept up on what they spend their time on, what they use their opportunity to express their opinion on, so that when you as an employee want to organize yourself it can be in the People's Church's Relief Service or other organizations it is something that you vote off with the hinterland, which after all has chosen or called one, as it is in a priestly context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161750	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161752	But again: The problem here is not the individual parishes. The problem here is the bishops who use their pulpit as a platform. Does the Minister not have a clearer message for those who may share a political mind with me and who feel repelled by a people's church drawn by left-wing cultural radical and climate fanatic bishops? I think there are many who resign precisely as a result of this. Perhaps that's why you see an increasing interest in some of the more conservative churches in Denmark simply because people are tired of such a halalhippie church ruled by bishops that sound like a bad day in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161833	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161834	It's a picture I don't recognize. During the time I've been preoccupied with the public church, I recognize that sometimes the minds get awkward when there are priests who have strong opinions. But this case, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has chosen to go forward, is indeed a case in which it is now all bishops who have chosen to support what is also supported by a broad majority in this Parliament, for example. this 70-percent objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161903	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210526161910	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 27 May, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
