ParlaMint-DK_20210312100002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 192 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on sickness benefits and the Law on maternity leave. Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Britt Bager (V), Dennis Flydtkjær (DF), Birgitte Bergman (KF) and Jens Roh (UFG): Request no. F 50 (What does the Minister intend to do about the obvious challenges facing the Danish media, large and small, old and new, due to technological and international media development, to take initiatives to strengthen the democratic conversation, critical public and quality journalism both locally, regionally and nationally?). Jacob Jensen (V) and Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF): Request no. F 51 (Will the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, following the hearing of the Transport Committee on 24 February 2021 on the economy of the local railways, which is under the responsibility of the regions, explain the Government's position on the possible future financing of local railways, including the fact that several local railways are ahead of having replaced the rails with the resultant high construction costs for the regions?). Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Pernille Skipper (EL): Hasteforskning nr. F 52 (Will the government explain the challenges and risks associated with agreeing on a vaccine production with Israel and Austria and explain the possibilities of establishing a Danish or Nordic public vaccine production in order to strengthen national health preparedness?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210312100058	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party: Mr. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312100117	Thank you. This is, after all, a proposal arising from the agreement reached on the entitlement to an early retirement pension. It will now be possible to pay your pre-retirement or flex wage benefit tax-free if you have not reached retirement age or retirement age. I think it is very important to stress today that this is a voluntary arrangement. In this way, it can be said that it is very liberal because it gives more freedom of choice to the individual in relation to making choices. But it is important to stress that it is a system that you can choose for yourself. So there's no requirement, there's no obligation to do this. When I say that, it is, of course, because there are some issues and some challenges that can be for the individual, in relation to when you get paid this amount, what status and position you then have in relation to the possibilities among others. premature retirement, etc. That is why there must also be a very strong recommendation to those who are going to be involved here that we should at least examine very carefully what the long-term consequences of a payment will be in relation to the opportunities available. However, as I have said, there is no requirement for this to be paid out. You can wait until a later date and then pay 30 per cent. in the tax of the contribution that lies. So, as I said, I think this is important once again to emphasise: it is a voluntary scheme, and when you make choices, it also has consequences. It is just important that individuals are involved in some way or other in the consequences of such a choice. Otherwise, however, we in the Social Democratic Party think it is a good arrangement and we would recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312100319	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur will be ready, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Hans Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312100342	Thank you. Then we found it, the famous needle in the haystack, because although we in the Left do not have many roses for the whole Arnepension, we are nevertheless pleased that the government and parties behind the early retirement to Arne are pulling an old Left proposal out of the hat. I would like to receive that shoulder flap on behalf of the Left. It is indeed the case that we have introduced several times in the past periods during which the early retirement and/or flexible allowance contributions could be paid in cash and tax-free. We did so with the agreement on later withdrawal back in May 2011 and again in 2017 in connection with the agreement on several years on the labour market. In both cases, it was with a Left Prime Minister at the end of the table. The latter agreement was even fiercely opposed by the present government and its supporting parties, but everyone is allowed to become wiser, so we also welcome the fact that there are more parties that have remained today. We would, of course, like the government to have a little more speed in presenting initiatives to increase the supply of labour, since it has been reduced so drastically by introducing a new transfer income. But the ruling party, the Social Democratic Party, has also committed itself to this, so we look forward very much to that process. And we are happy to contribute to it, and we are happy to make proposals when the government has boarded the use and reuse of old Left proposals. So, of course, we support our own policy and therefore also vote in favour of the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312100601	To the Left rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is clear, it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312100623	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by saying that I think it is nice that the Danish People's Party can deliver something for an agreement like this, which the Left can vote for, even if they are not in the agreement. When we submitted our proposals to the Minister for Employment regarding the payment of the early retirement contribution, we were quite convinced that the Left would say: yes, finally! There was something in that Arnepension that the Left could support, and so was there. So fine with that, and thank you to the Left for supporting this. This proposal for the payment of early retirement contributions is, as Mr. Henrik Møller from S said, namely a proposal where one should be very careful. You have to examine and look carefully at what relationships you have, because it matters. If you want to retire early and still have paid back and run it there, it is an advantage that you get the early retirement, because then you have collected a larger amount. If you choose to retire early rather than retire early and you have a lot of pension savings, it is set off in early retirement. The benefit and benefit lies in precisely avoiding set-off by receiving early retirement and early retirement. After all, however, there are some who have paid for early retirement, who may not have any pension savings, they may have only ATP, they have not managed to get any occupational pension or private pension savings or something like that, not something that needs to be set off, and then it would be a good thing to keep the early retirement pension rather than early retirement. You just have to pay attention to that, which is why you should not just say: well, now we have to have the money paid out, if that is what you are looking at. Because if you do not have any pension savings to offset, you would get more out of it if you received the full early retirement rather than early retirement. So it is a consideration that must be considered. It will be the case that from 1 January 2022 to 30 June 2022 you can apply for early retirement, and how many people will then take advantage of it, time will have to show. I know that some people want it to be paid, even if they do not think about retirement early, but they really want it to be paid right now because they are never going to be paid for early retirement. Then they want to be able to choose that they can get it paid out, and we give people that choice. There's no compulsion in this, it's people's own free wish, whether or not they want the early retirement. And it shouldn't be a compulsion either, so that they say, "You have to keep your early retirement." It's people's choice, and that's what's in this. The last two times when you got it paid out it was in 2012, and it was in 2018 that you could get it paid out there were actually very many who wanted to get the money paid out, and that is only good, it is like I said people's own will. There have been some comments in the hearings on those born in 1961 and 1962 for whom it was not yet possible to say whether they could receive an early retirement pension. That's true, too. There are a few vintages here where it is not quite clear whether they can get an early pension and get it paid, but on the part of the Danish People's Party, we will not rule out that we can make such a scheme again. This is tax-free payout, but if you don't get the tax-free payout, you can get the money paid anyway, as long as you pay 30%. But this is the third time that we have made a scheme for voluntary early retirement and, as I have said, we in the Danish People's Party will not rule out the possibility that later, perhaps in 1, 2, 3 or 4 years, we will choose to say that we are now making a second round where it can be paid out. It depends a little on the success of the early retirement scheme, and we cannot assess that yet. But if you choose to go on early retirement, and if you have large pension payments that are offset by the early retirement, then it is a clear advantage to get this money paid now and here and then run on ordinary pension savings, save this money and maybe retire early, or just save the money, you don't even have to have the right to early retirement to go on early retirement. It may be advantageous to have them paid anyway if you have large pension payments. So, of course, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal that we ourselves have been involved in making.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312101134	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312101156	Thank you for the floor. For the record, I am taking this first reading for my colleague, SF's employment rapporteur, Karsten Hønge, so right now I am Karsten Hønge. L 183 is part of the implementation of the early retirement agreement of autumn 2020, when a majority agreed that people who had been most years on the labour market should have the opportunity to retire. It is a new right and a justice that we in the SF are very happy about. With this bill, it will be possible for those who have saved up for early retirement to have their pre-retirement contribution paid in cash and tax-free, and people in the flex benefits scheme will have a similar opportunity to receive the flex benefits contribution, including cash and tax-free. Specifically, from 1 January 2022 to 30 June 2022, members of the early retirement scheme who have not reached an early retirement age will be able to apply for payment and, in return, withdraw from the scheme. It provides flexibility and freedom of choice for citizens, and the SF therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312101301	Thank you to the SF rapporteur and thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312101313	Thank you very much. The bill here comes from the famous • for some famous, for other notorious • Arne agreements, and specifically it is about the payment of the pre-retirement contribution. The Left rapporteur was on the floor to take credit for the fact that it was an old Left proposal, and I would like to mention that it is also an old Radical Left proposal. So I stand in line with those who want to receive the applause and recognition for this bill to come through, and that, of course, will be with the support of the Radical Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312101353	Thank you very much to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is clear, and that is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312101417	See, this law is part of the early retirement agreement, and Enhedslisten is of course in favour of it. This is an important agreement for all employees who have a long and hard working life, and it is also a plaster on the wounds that the government and the bourgeois did deeper when the same day they raised the retirement age to 69 years for 3.8 million citizens. In the Enhedslisten, we have no objection to the fact that the money paid by employees for years in early retirement and flexible payroll contributions comes back into their pockets, and it is only fair that it is tax-free. But on the other hand, we would like an assurance from the Minister that there can in fact in no way be offset against transfer income, either for the person himself or for a spouse or for a partner who is on transfer income. We would like to have such a guarantee in the Minister's speech. Whether it is wise for the individual to collect his or her paid contribution is a completely different matter, but we note with satisfaction that the comments state that the cashiers should not advise on what is best financially. After all, no one knows what the future can bring from sickness and unemployment and death and the like. But with those comments, Enhedslisten can therefore agree to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312101538	Thank you very much to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312101549	Thank you. As I have said, the bill here is the implementation of the agreement on early retirement which the government has concluded with the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten. The Conservative People's Party, as you know, is not part of the agreement. With the early retirement agreement, the government is dragging healthy people out of the labour market early. When you look at the economic consequences, they are great; we are talking about a billion-dollar agreement which costs almost 10,000 jobs. And that may be so surprising when we find ourselves in a situation where together we are making aid packages and agreements for the recovery of the economy, while at the same time the government is implementing an agreement such as this that puts the economy in reverse. Having said that, the Conservative People's Party itself has actually proposed a tax-free payment of the early retirement wage in connection with our 2021 draft budget, where we propose a stop to the 2024 pre-retirement allowance. The early retirement scheme removes routine hands from the labour market, which could otherwise contribute for a long time. Otherwise, we believe that the pre-retirement reform was an important step towards a better labour market. Full abolition would bring greater economic benefit to Denmark. Our proposal increases employment by 12 000 people and increases the prosperity of 9 billion. kr. Having said that, everyone cannot put forward as sensible and forward-looking a policy as the Conservative People's Party. But that is why we take what we can get when the government puts forward a policy in which we can see ourselves, and even if the bill has been tabled against a bad background, the Conservative People's Party supports the government's proposal for a cash and tax-free payment of the pre-retirement and flexible contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312101738	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Could the rapporteur please prepare the platform for the next speaker? Thank you. Since I do not see any rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party or from the Liberal Alliance, I am ready to give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312101807	I would like to thank you for your consideration of the draft law today. As stated in the draft law, it is possible that members of the early retirement scheme and the flexitime benefit scheme who have not reached the early retirement age per year. On 1 January 2020, their previously paid contributions may be reimbursed on favourable tax terms. It will be possible to apply for the payment in the first half of 2022. The possibility should give all members of the early retirement scheme and the flexibility scheme good opportunities to adjust their retirement decision in the light of the introduction of a new entitlement to early retirement. As several rapporteurs also stress, there is an opportunity for voluntary cancellation of the early retirement scheme, which must support the choice of what fits best into one's personal and working conditions. The possibility of tax-free payments in 2022 is organised according to the same principles as the possibility of cash and tax-free payments in 2012 and 2018 respectively. It is important that those who choose to withdraw from the early retirement scheme or the flexicure scheme should be aware of the consequences for the future. The unemployment funds and payments Denmark will therefore be obliged to inform those who have the option of cash and tax-free payments about the consequences of the opt-out. The draft law also clarifies the rules on early retirement, which have proved necessary in the implementation of early retirement. It relates to an addition to the benefits during activation which may be taken into account to meet the seniority requirement for the entitlement to an early retirement pension. Again, I would like to thank you for the consideration of the bill. I am pleased that, although a number of the parties that have expressed support for the bill are not included in the agreement itself, they can nevertheless see the reason for giving people the opportunity to have their early retirement contributions paid tax-free, given that you have another and really, very good opportunity to leave the labour market if you have had a long and hard working life. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102019	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102025	I would just like to ask the Minister, if he can guarantee that there can under no circumstances be a set-off in any benefit as a result of the payment of the pre-retirement contributions. Of course, this applies to both the person concerned and his/her relatives, who may be on transfer income. I would like the Minister to be able to guarantee that such benefits cannot be offset against the payment of early retirement contributions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102055	In other words, except for assistance in the cash benefits system, it is usually only taxable payments that result in deductions from the various social security benefits. However, since early retirement contributions are paid out without tax liability in the first half of 2022, they will not result in deductions from public social security contributions. In addition, the right to public benefits other than cash benefits is not property-dependent and rules will be laid down at the level of the Order that the payment of early retirement and flexible benefits contributions in 2022, while at the same time receiving assistance in the cash benefits system, should not result in a deduction in cash benefits. I hope that was an adequate answer to Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102142	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102144	That's a really good answer. I just want to make sure that this also applies to spouses who may be on benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102154	At any rate, this is an issue which we are aware of and to which we can also return in connection with the announcement. I dare to be quite honest not to issue any guarantees on a stand-by basis, most of all in the light of the discussions we have had on holiday money, etc. But the intention is not to be set off. So, if Mrs Jette Gottlieb allows, I will return to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102223	There is a further brief comment to be made to the Minister. This one's for Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102227	It's just to follow up on what Mrs Jette Gottlieb says. We could, of course, get an answer to this before the second reading, so it is part of the legislative process. We could get an answer before we have a second reading of the proposal. If the Minister could guarantee that that answer comes at second reading, that would be fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102252	We will, of course, see to it that this is dealt with as a matter of second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102300	Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102316	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102347	Thank you very much, and also thank you to Mrs Carøe and others. to table this motion for a resolution. With the motion for a resolution that we are debating today, the SF wants to extend the rules on which companies are covered by the rules on gender-based pay statistics. I agree with the proposers that the lack of equal pay between women and men remains a challenge. The pay gap between women and men is still around. 14% across the labour market and the reasons for it are not simple. The pay gap is mainly linked to the fact that the labour market is very gender-based, both in terms of sectors and sectors, but also in terms of management positions. Education also plays a role here, because there is still a great difference in the direction in which women and men choose. At the same time, women take more parental leave and are more part-time. Unequal pay is not a simple problem, and it cannot be solved with a snap, but it deserves serious attention. That is why we must take action on several fronts. The government is working in a number of areas. In relation to education, this year I plan to establish an alliance with among others. vocational training and labour market organisations to promote equality in vocational training, both among craftsmen and sosu's. And with the Technology Pact, the government, the business community and the educational institutions are working hard to get more young women to choose the STEM programmes. We will also come forward with a legislative proposal to support the work of companies and organisations to promote a fairer gender distribution in boards and management. Then the government wants more fathers to take more leave. I would have preferred the EU not to have legislated on earmarked maternity; we prefer to agree on this in cooperation with the social partners. Having said that, however, the government is, of course, constructively involved in implementing the Leaves Directive in such a way that, overall, fathers will get and also spend more leave. We have introduced a maternity scheme for self-employed people to make it easier for women, not least, to have their own business. It entered into force here on 1 January 2021. But there are also smaller gripes that can make a difference. For example: The Factory Inspectorate's Order on Swimming Facilities has been amended to create a better framework for women craftsmen. Smoothing up the gender-separated education and the labour market requires efforts from several actors and, above all, from the social partners. Many industries are already working actively to break the division of gender. For example, Danish shipping companies have drawn up a charter that will have more women in shipping, also in the management layer. And in transport, they are working actively to attract more women to the sector. The construction industry has prepared a guide for pregnant painters to handle heavy lifting, difficult work positions and chemicals, and they have several manuals for other crafts on the way. Those are the kinds of initiatives that are needed around industries and industry if we are to break the gender divide in the labour market. The social partners also take responsibility. For example: Danish Handicrafts and 3F have entered into a new agreement with full pay to women craftsmen when they go on maternity leave to attract more women to a traditionally male-dominated profession. And in the municipal and regional areas, it has again been agreed to allocate funds to an equal pay pool. Visibility and information on the remuneration of men and women and a strengthened equal pay effort at all levels are relevant measures to promote equal pay. The European Commission has just presented its proposal, including a proposal for a new directive aimed at strengthening the enforcement of the EU's principle of equal pay and ensuring transparency in wage formation. The proposal has already been made by the Folketing as a so-called priority issue, and I look forward to sending as soon as possible a basic and proximity note explaining the substance of the proposal, its consequences and the Government's preliminary position. The first impression is that this is a comprehensive, far-reaching and ambitious proposal from the Commission, and we will now look into this, including in cooperation with the social partners. And I look forward to working closely with the Danish Parliament on this matter. In addition, I am prepared to look at whether we need to tighten up national rules, but also give us time to do so in order to assess the consequences of the proposed new EU rules. I would therefore like to give a hand in inviting the parties of the Danish Parliament to a debate on the basis of the knowledge we have about what works in this area. At the same time, there is a need for us to now look into the proposal for a directive and look at the consequences for Danish legislation. We are starting that process now. I would therefore like to call for discussions after the summer recess and, in this context, the government cannot support the adoption of the proposed proposal at present. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102907	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312102913	Thank you for that and thank you for the many expressions about how we can promote equality in the labour market. It is very good to hear that the government is ambitious on this, but I am sorry that the government cannot support this bill, which our parties have also introduced in the past, but which the bourgeois government abolished again. And I am actually surprised, because in an interview in Politiken in August 2019, the then Minister for Gender Equality, Mogens Jensen, said that the government would just reinstate this with the gender-based pay statistics for small and medium-sized enterprises. So it is still the intention of the government, and should we then just wait further, because then it means that two years have passed since this interview in Politiken, or has this statement been withdrawn that these gender-separated pay statistics will no longer be reinstated?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103005	No, I have not made up my mind with the previous statement by the former Minister for Gender Equality or with the intention that we should not introduce it. What we are basing our position on today's motion for a resolution is that I think it is important that it be seen in the context of a possible both position and potential implementation of the EU directive on equal pay, which is why it should be thought into one, and my proposal as a minister to the parties of the Folketing is that we should discuss it together when we also have an assessment of the scope of the directive. I will call that meeting, because we expect that we will be far enough in the process after the summer break. So Mrs Carøe should not regard it as a derogation from what the former Minister for Gender Equality has said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103101	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103102	I'm glad to hear that. However, I am really sorry that so much time has to go by, and I do not think that this small proposal is going to push the implementation we are also going to have for the European Union, which we are also very happy about in the SF. I would like to make another suggestion. The Minister says that very much of the unequal pay in the labour market is due to the gender-separated labour market, and I agree with that, but if you check for education, industry, job title, etc., then there is still a pay gap of 4-7 per cent, and that cannot be explained by the fact that men have more managerial positions than women. So is it not necessary, in order to achieve that part, for us to have more transparency in relation to gender-based pay statistics and, indeed, other measures for more transparency of wages in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103153	We unreservedly engage in discussions on the tools that can be used to reduce the pay gap between men and women. But what I also said in my speech here was that there is a great deal of it which is simply also due to the structural reason why we have the gender-separated labour market. Men and women have different occupations, women work more part-time, and a major explanation is that women are longer away from several laps of the labour market, thereby losing pay and, for that matter, also pension savings. So we are not ideologically opposed to different approaches in advance, but it must make sense, and it is also important for me to say that this is something that needs to be done in very close agreement with the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103248	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103251	Thank you. What makes me ask is what the Minister said about the social pillar. We mentioned the social pillar, and there we put forward a position on the European Union, and the Social Democrats also agreed that it was contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. Nevertheless, the Minister is talking about continuing to work on the basis of the EU directive on the social pillar, to which we in Parliament have actually said no in this regard. That is why I need to know exactly what the Minister wants to work on, and whether it is something where, although we have said no to it, because it is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, it was voted down; there was no majority in favour of it simply submitting to the European Union and saying: OK, that is what we need to work on, that is, what the European Union is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103339	We have not yet transmitted what is called a basic and proximity note to the Folketing, in which we assess whether the principle of subsidiarity has been respected in the new Commission proposal on equal pay. But it is true, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted says that there are a number of different regulations on the part of the European Union which, unfortunately, I have to say, and regrettably extends beyond the limits we have, insofar as we want the social partners themselves to crack the nuts, to solve the challenges themselves and to agree on them themselves. A good example of this is also the directive that was put forward on minimum wage, where, among other things, we are. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is, of course, a discussion that is currently under way, and it may well be that we have the same discussion on the latest draft directive on equal pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103445	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103447	It is just because the social pillar deals with 27 countries with 27 different labour markets, where we have 27 different ways of dealing with it and perhaps also 27 different ways of negotiating wages. And if we then say that the EU directive must apply to all countries, we must be subject to the same rules, knowing that it will never be possible to do so at all when there are 27 different labour markets. So I hope that the Minister will take a good look at this and also come to the conclusion that this is also contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and that this is something that the social partners in Denmark themselves are negotiating.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103525	It is, of course, that I had said, unfortunately, not as a minister, who has a political assessment of the principle of subsidiarity. It's such a purely legal assessment. Having said that, however, my political opinion and assessment is that, although there are a number of principles, we are not opposed to the fact that wages for Europe's employees are allowed to rise when they have been lagging behind for so many years, nor are we against the EU's principle of equal pay, but we think it is important, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted also says that we in Denmark insist that the social partners themselves break the nuts and agree on the improvements and progress that are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103604	The next brief remark is to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103607	Thank you for that and thank you for your statement. With the current situation we are in and with the resolution from the Socialist People's Party, does the Minister not recognise that the very small companies with ten employees and below are in a very, very difficult situation right now because of the corona crisis? That was one issue, and there is also the issue of putting extraordinary burdens on our businesses right now and here. The second thing I want to say is that when I dive into the real figures from the VIVE report, the quite dewful figures, you can see that the unexplained pay difference is 1.8%, which does not immediately reflect the difference between industry, sector and job types. That is why I am surprised that we are going to have this discussion today. That is something quite different, but the other thing I would like to ask the Minister is: does the Minister not think that personal pay and one's own financial situation are a private matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103719	First of all, I would like to say that, yes, I recognise that many small businesses have major challenges. It is clear that, regardless of how or when we in the Folketing had to agree on a model to create transparency in wage statistics, it must be as little burdensome as possible. Fortunately, as far as many companies are concerned, we are also so digitalised that I do not immediately have the impression that this will create great burdens. Then there is the second question about the VIVE report. So, I know there has been a lot of discussion about this, how many people stress that because it concludes that the unexplained pay gap is only 2%, the pay gap is only 2%, but that does not change the remaining 12%, because the pay gap is still 14 per cent. In total. The remaining 12%. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action on this matter. And yes, of course pay is a private matter, but if you can see that there is a structural challenge in that there is a huge difference between pay between men and women for all kinds of reasons, then I also believe that we have a duty to address it politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103829	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103830	In relation to the fact that we have a duty to address it politically, I would say that I fully share the view that there is something we can do in the field of education, both in the field of STEM education and in the field of vocational training. I totally share that, and I think it's all down there that we have to start to get rid of this. But when is enough? Well, what's enough for the minister? Is it 'cause it's gotta be 50 percent? of both sexes? Or when is enough? Because there will always, I think, be some kind of difference in statistics, because as men and women we choose differently. So I'm just asking when enough is enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103911	Well, I think you're absolutely right about people choosing different ways. People have different interests. Humans have different talents. What is crucial to me, as a Socialist Minister for Gender Equality, is that no one is limited in living out their talent in relation to receiving the salary that they are also worth somewhere or, for that matter, living their dreams and interests on the basis of their gender or anything else. That is what matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103942	I think the Minister thought that the rapporteur Yes, I apologise). That's the thing about the direct indictment... it's something difficult. The next person to speak is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312103953	Thank you. Like the SF rapporteur, I can also regret the fact that this is being kicked out a little in the future, because the government has been sitting for almost two years, and this is not the first time this proposal has come up. It has been up the last few times that have been International Women's Day. Radical Left has kicked it in himself. And I think you hear this actually okay reception from the government, but it's gonna get shot a second time anyway. It annoys me, and I really want to hear what the government and the Minister have of ambition in relation to equal pay. Because we have not done anything ourselves, but are waiting for resolutions to come and then call for discussion on the basis of it. But what are the government's own ambitions, because I hear a recognition that there is a challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104050	First of all I must say that I do not recognize the image that the government has done nothing in the area of equal pay. It may well be that one might think that the government is not ambitious enough or is not moving fast enough and so on, but I do not think it is true that the government has done nothing. After all, we have made a wide range of different approaches, all of which will help to achieve better equality in the labour market and thus also better equal pay. After all, our maternity compensation for the self-employed is one grip, and the future legislation on earmarked maternity for men is another grip. A third grip will, of course, remain when we also have to look at, as we have announced, increased equality in management battles and so on. When we say that we want to see it here in the context of the equal pay directive that has now been presented, it is of course because we need to analyse thoroughly that it is very important for us to see the extent of the scope of the proposal and whether we respect the autonomy of the parties and the way we make agreements here, but also that it should be seen in the context of whether there will be any elements there that we might have to implement that patch up. And so it can easily be possible to enter the next session after we have had discussions with the parties at least those who want to join us after the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104215	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104216	We shall then look forward to these discussions. Conservatives' rapporteur pointed out a bureaucracy affecting companies already affected by corona. In this context, I would like to know whether the Minister will not confirm that companies, even down to ten employees, as it is today, report wages and pass their information on to Statistics Denmark, so the bureaucracy that is imposed on companies is that they receive a letter from Statistics Denmark with their own data broken down by sex.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104252	That would probably be what would happen in practice. And that is also why my comment was that, of course, we must always pay attention to the administrative burdens, and we also think that this is important, but that because we are fortunately a digitalised society, this type of burden becomes less and less when it comes to statistics alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104315	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104319	After all, I have listened to all the answers that have come to me about all the grip that the government has taken. I think the most descriptive thing is that things are constantly being pushed in front of them. The second thing I want to say is that it is as if the proposal has not been read. After all, it is a proposal to gain insight. It is, of course, a proposal to form the basis for the negotiations to take place. Now we were told right here in the last round that it will be after the summer break. But it is, of course, a proposal to secure a knowledge that we need in order to be able to take the right hold, namely an improved statistics. What is being asked in the proposal is whether we can go back to taking the largest group of Danish companies, i.e. those with between 10 and 35 employees, and ask them to contribute to the insight we need in order to make the right grip. I ask the Minister: is it not very wise to support that insight?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104415	We have considered by the government that it is wise to take that discussion in the context of the analysis of the new EU equal pay directive. And then I have to say to Mrs Jette Gottlieb that it is not just in the area of equality that we have had to postpone certain measures. After all, we have done so in a large number of areas, and this is largely due to the fact that not only the government, but the whole of the Danish Parliament over the past year, has been hard to deal with a global pandemic and the economic consequences it has.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104459	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104500	I have great respect for that, and I agree with that, by the way. There are many things we have had to push in front of us. But what I am asking is whether it would not be wise to gain the insight that will form the basis for the negotiations and discussions that we will then have after the summer recess, and that insight will be gained through an extension of the statistical basis, because where else will it be obtained? Otherwise, we can start to get it at that time, and it will then further delay it for a year. That's why I'm wondering. I admit that I also include arguments that I heard at yesterday's conciliation on how to deal with matters. There is no point in pointing out that this is all about a gender equality labour market where men and women have the same functions in the labour market. That is not the only factor we can continue to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104548	Now the consultation is referred to the day before yesterday, and the consultation was of course about a very relevant issue. But I also think that it was clear both at the consultation and after the consultation that it is a very, very difficult exercise to have to reroute all the water that has flowed through the stream since 1969. And, of course, when I mention all the different measures, these are examples of us not sitting on our hands. We take it seriously that there are wage differences between men and women. We think that the right thing in this particular case is to see things in the context of the analysis of the Commission's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104632	The next brief remark is to Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104635	Thank you very much. I cannot help speaking because I feel the way I do not often feel about the government and the minister, and that is why I would like to pay tribute very much to the Minister for his reply and speech. I was also rapporteur back in 2014 when the then Socialist Government introduced something similar, so I would like to thank the Minister for having moved forward and for the Minister being able to see that this is not a solution. I would like to thank you very much for that. Then I have one question. The minister says that after the summer break we have to go in to talk more about this area and that a great deal is happening. We look forward to that very much. It has to be said that in the Left we are very concerned about getting as close to the unexplained percentage that is, just like everyone else is. This is a pretty important area, but it's the right tools that we need to look into. I would like to ask the Minister now, where so much has to be done in this area, both with the EU directive, negotiations and so on, whether there will still be room for me to make an extra effort to create added value, and I can also go in to seek more pay than a female colleague, even if we have the same job, that is. Get more than that colleague.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104805	First of all, thank you for the rose. I am always happy to accept and applaud the praise I can get, but I also thought it seemed like a little selective praise. I welcome the praise, but what I was also told is that we think it is important that there is transparency of pay, including between the sexes. We do not support the present motion for a resolution, but think it is important that we continue to work on it and see it in the context of the proposal for a directive which is now under way. We are not going to, and it is important for me to stress, go into any time and suggest that we dictate what the salary should be for neither men nor women anywhere. We believe that this is basically a matter for the social partners, but we think that both the explanatory and the inexplicable pay gap between men and women should be addressed. Of course, as the rapporteur says, we must get as close as possible to understand what the unexplained part is about. But we know a great deal about the explanatory part, and we can try to mess with it, and we can try to change the structures so that there is not the big pay gap.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104920	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312104922	Thank you very much. I can say nothing more than that I once again agree with the Minister. It is a good day today to be able to agree with your minister. I actually asked whether the Minister would acknowledge that there may be a different salary, even if the job title is the same. Will that rubber band be there? I am not saying that the Minister should value what is being done or the salary, but I would like to hear what the Minister means here: two women are employed with the same background in the same type of position. One has a little more ambition and wants to do a little more and also do a little more and goes to the boss and negotiates a slightly higher salary because he gives something extra. Will there not always be room for this, or will the Minister think that this is a problem? I would like to hear that, because that is something that is happening out there in the real world, which may also be part of the background to the unexplainable part.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105022	I'm a socialist, and I'm not a communist or anything else. We do not have the basic view that everyone should have the same salary in exactly the same position with the same education. We want you to start on the same basis, so you can see what this really is. But it is clear that if someone then acquires new competences; someone who works more; someone who secures it for one reason or another in either a private wage negotiation, in a local wage negotiation at the workplace, or because collective agreements take account of it, then we only think that it is natural that there can be a difference in what one gets, depending on what one has and what one has in one's job.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105105	The next brief remark is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105109	First of all, thank you to the Minister. The Minister is new in this area, at least it is new that the issue of equal opportunities has moved under the responsibility of the Minister for Employment. Therefore, on behalf of the Green Group, I would just like to say that I look forward to working together to make Denmark an equal society. In the Greens we work inter-sectionally in relation to equality, in relation to discrimination. Therefore, from our perspective, it is important to consider how wage differences strike across all the different grounds for discrimination, for example. ethnicity, gender, functionality. I just want to know if this is also an approach that the Minister shares. Can we expect the Minister and the government to go inter-sectionally on the issue of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105212	Well, there's no doubt about that. After all, we are fundamentally opposed to any form of discrimination based on sex, ethnicity, sexuality or all sorts of other reasons, regardless of whether you are paid or whether you have access to specific jobs or education. We are opposed to discrimination, and I also have the impression, fortunately, that a broad majority in the Folketing shares this view. And there we want to do what we can in every possible way to get rid of it. Fortunately, then, we are a country where this type of discrimination is less widespread than can be seen elsewhere in the world. But I do not think you should be naive about the fact that it does exist, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105300	I am incredibly pleased to hear that, and that is why I would like to know whether the Minister could then lift the veil of something. I heard in the Minister's speech that later the parties of the Danish Parliament will be convened and discussed here the challenges of equality and action taken. Can the Minister at this stage reveal the intersectional approach, that is to say the holistic approach, in relation to whether there are any concrete measures that show that the problem is intersectionally addressed here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105340	Well, I haven't got on my feet, and I'd like to promise you that I'll come back to sir. Sikandar Siddique about • any knowledge or prerequisite to comment on whether there is unequal pay, for example on the basis of sexuality. Well, it may well be that reports have been written about it, but it is not something I have the knowledge to speak on today. But, as I said before, we are concerned that there is no discrimination based on people's sex, sexuality, ethnicity. And that is true, whether it is in pay matters or one's access to opportunities in life. So, of course, we are always willing to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105427	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister and we can begin the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and this Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105503	Unfortunately, in today's Denmark we still lack equal pay between the sexes. The government is concerned with combating wage differences between men and women in the Danish labour market. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that we continue to have a task in creating a society in which men and women actually have equal opportunities and where gender does not play a decisive role in terms of pay. But lack of equal pay is not a simple problem with a simple solution. We are dealing with a fundamental complex structural challenge, and I believe that many different buttons need to be screwed to solve the problem. One of the main reasons for the lack of equal pay is the gender-based labour market. The gender-based labour market can be traced back to gender-based education. In many places we still see girls' education and boys' education. That needs to be corrected, and there will be. Another crucial barrier to equal pay is the imbalance in the distribution of maternity leave, where mothers still take too much and fathers too little, and that can and must be dealt with politically. Taking action with the gender-based labour market, educational choices and family life is not an easy task. This requires ambitious action from several sides, not least industry and the social partners. Many industries and trade unions are already working actively to break down gender divisions. As the Minister has mentioned, the government has also taken many good and important steps in the right direction in relation to, among other things, education and maternity. The European Commission has just presented a new comprehensive directive on equal pay, and this must of course also be included in our deliberations on possible new national initiatives. Transparency about the remuneration of men and women is one of the tools we have in our toolbox. That is why we are pleased to note in the Social Democratic Party that the Minister also wishes to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to further discussions on equal pay and gender statistics and any need to adjust Danish legislation. We share the desire for equal pay, but we can support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105652	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312105712	Thank you very much. The legislation is clear: in Denmark there must be equal pay for equal work. But there is an unexplained pay gap between men and women when we take into account job types, industries, sectors and experience. The SF's proposal here is that all companies with at least ten employees, of which at least three men and three women, should be covered by the rules on gender-based pay statistics. In the Left, we do not believe that that is the solution. We do not believe that it gives equal pay to the individual company that many will receive a salary statistics for employees who do not do the same work. In those companies which do not employ men and women who do the same work, gender-based pay statistics will say nothing about whether or not there are equal pay problems in the company. In fact, the motion for a resolution does not require men and women to do the same as the basis for the pay data contained in the statistics. And so the statistics for many small businesses become totally meaningless. Small businesses, by their very nature, have few employees, which is why these statistics say nothing about whether there is equal pay in the company, because there will often be few people working in different job functions. So the proposal is completely useless. To force companies to discuss wage differences between, for example: 17 male electricians and 5 female HKs in the company in question do not make any sense either. We are not talking about equal work, and that is why we should not force companies to hold these discussions on the basis of such information. In addition, this proposal also places burdens on companies. It is an increase in the administrative burden on businesses that management in a lot of small businesses should take the initiative of having talks with employees about something that is fundamentally meaningless to them. I have to say that I do not believe that there are very many employers who are thinking about themselves: this is a woman, so we are just pulling a 5-10 per cent. from her salary, even though she's doing the same thing her male colleague is doing. There is an inexplicable pay gap between women and men and, as I said to the Minister earlier, this is something that we in the Left would very much like to come closer to, but frankly we do not believe that this resolution is moving anything at all. It may well be that SF gets along with itself and feels they have done something, but we can't see at all on the basis of the latest survey that has been in the area • what this should be good for. However, in the Left we would very much like to take the debate and we look very much forward to the negotiations, but we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110038	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a desire for short comments. First it's from Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110043	Thank you. It is certainly not to get well in my stomach that I am tabling this motion for a resolution. It is quite simple because we hear from experts that it is a good move to get some statistics in this area. The rapporteur says that there are not many employers who deliberately discriminate between men and women, and I think the rapporteur is absolutely right in that. Nevertheless, there is an inexplicable wage difference of 4-7 per cent when you sort out for industry, experience and all that, and that is not on purpose, but that is why we have to have examined exactly where this pay difference lies. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware that in the resolution we are very open to making it even clearer that it is of course three men and three women who do the same work, in other words having the same DISCO code in the company. So there are not 5 HKs and 17 carpenters, but people who do exactly the same work. If we were to clarify this, could the Left be in favour of the motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110153	No, we can't. We still can't back it up because we don't believe it. And I would also like to say that the figures for the inexplicable part, i.e. that it is somewhere between 4% and 7%, are not entirely correct either. The latest survey shows that the more parameters you measure, the lower the numbers. We are also very interested in it, but what I see, which is some of the latest, and which is what VIVE has done, is that it is 1.8 per cent. We cannot be involved, because I think we have enough statistics: Today it is 1.5 million who report to Danmarks Statistik; with SF's proposal it is 2 million. When I call this a feel good case that SF has, it is because it is true that there are some problems, but this will only give extra tasks to companies, and frankly, at a time when they are really, really difficult in advance, and when it is about whether they are going to survive at all, we should not give them extra tasks with something that is not even going to move, because numerically in relation to the statistics or the more knowledge that SF is calling for, we already have quite high figures. It is true that there is an inexplicable part, we are all interested in getting closer to it and there are many explanations for it. First Vice-President Thank you). Whether it is the gender-based labour market and so on, I will not go into it at all. I'm gonna deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110316	I would ask the rapporteur to respect his speaking time. Once the President has risen, the speaking time is much exceeded. Mrs Astrid Carøe, second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110324	Thank you. I'm sorry that the Left won't be involved in getting any more statistics in this area. In relation to the burden, it is already, as we have already heard from Samira Nawa, something that companies have to report. When you have more than ten employees, you have to report wages to Danmarks Statistik. All they have to do as an extra burden is receive a letter back, and they don't have to do that. So that is the burden. And I wonder; I wonder why the Left will not be involved in getting more statistics in this area if you just want to do away with this. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he is aware that in the inexplicable pay gap of 1.8%. You also count maternity leave and whether women have female colleagues, that is, you explain with gender. And that's why I'm saying 4-7 percent. Must be more accurate. Is the rapporteur aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110415	I am well aware of that. But we can get into it. There may be some explanations. That's why it's called the inexplicable part. Everything else can be explained. So yes, I am aware that the more parameters you come in, the lower the inexplicable one becomes. And we're very, very interested in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110434	There is one more brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110447	Thank you to the rapporteur. Of course, I too, like my colleague, am extremely sorry that the Left will not support the proposal. The rapporteur said that the proposal is not the way forward and, of course, I assume that the Left also wants equal pay but will the rapporteur then tell us what is the way forward and will the rapporteur explain how we can ensure that we get equal pay if we do not support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110517	Now I do not think this proposal would have moved anything at all, and that is why we do not support it. But that does not mean that we cannot see any problems. The Minister also mentioned this, and the previous rapporteur also mentioned it, and I think there are a lot of things we need to talk about when we talk, and we need to talk about it a little more in general. There is the whole part of maternity, where very many women take the largest share of the bar, and we have a very, very gender-separated education system, very gender-divided labour market, women work much less than men do, and they want some other benefits. Maybe they'd rather have earlier Fridays off. There are so many things. So yes, we look forward to that discussion, but we honestly and seriously do not believe that this is moving anything, so we do not support it. But there are a lot of things we need to go in and look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110600	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110603	So I would like to ask a perhaps a little more specific question: can we expect to see proposals from the Left in the Chamber to combat unequal pay and to promote equality and ensure equal pay in the labour market? Can we expect to see concrete proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber from the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110630	I can say yes to that with a resounding and very proud voice. I have just submitted a motion for a resolution which states that I would like us to go in and look at this as a whole. This applies to our education system, because in the public schools we lose the boys. One out of ten boys out of primary school does not move forward in the education system, and that is a huge problem. We have a gender-based education system, we have a gender-based labour market, so we have proposed that we have a commission to look at this whole thing. How do we get women to take some training courses that create faster access to the executive positions, how do we get more men in the service fields? So, yes, there is a resolution that has been submitted and I look forward to discussing it so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110710	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the rapporteur prepares for the next rapporteur, who is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312110731	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the motion for a resolution that has been tabled. It is always exciting to see what comes out of this kind of motion for a resolution. This is nothing new, because I think we have had the discussion about equal pay statistics five, six, seven, eight times in the time I have been sitting in the Folketing, and it has been up several times with the changing employment ministers too, in other words how to tackle it. I would like to thank the Minister for Employment for the good speech and the good speech that was at first, and that does indeed mean that I have to say that there is much of what the Minister for Employment said we agree with in the Danish People's Party, so I do not need to repeat that. It's always nice. If you look at the wage statistics, we in the Danish People's Party can see that there is no doubt that there are some unexplained wage differences, because it is very difficult to judge equal pay for equal work. Then we know that there are others who talk about equal pay for work of equal value, but it is harder to judge, because it is almost impossible to judge what the value of your work is, but if you talk about equal pay for equal work, you have to have someone standing next to each other and doing exactly the same in a production where, for example, they do. Makes 1,000 elements, and if a man and a woman make 1,000 elements at the same time, they must of course have equal pay, that is clear. And if they are employed to do the same, they must have equal pay, and they also get that in production companies, but it is not because of pay statistics that they get it; it is, of course, because of the collective bargaining that has been done where wages have been negotiated, and that is also the way we in the Danish People's Party think we should go, to change equal pay statistics and say that now we have to go down to companies that have 10 employees, where there are at least 3 men and 3 women doing exactly the same thing, is hard enough. I don't think you can see it that way and then find small businesses with 10 employees, where 3 of each sex does the same thing, and that's why we don't think this moves anything. But it can move something if we say in the collective bargaining that women must be given priority, but the parties to the agreement have never done so, because they have not been out of priority to women and have had them as their main priority and have said that women should be paid more than men. They run with a total percentage, and if you really have to change something there, you have to say that in collective bargaining women are given more priority, but it is up to the parties to the agreement to do so, because the Danish People's Party does not interfere. We do not believe that we in the Folketing should decide how the wage negotiations should be conducted, nor do we believe that a change in gender-based equal pay statistics, that is to say a change from 35 to 10 employees, would help anything, and therefore we cannot support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111055	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111128	Thank you. We are finally becoming a place where only the most stubborn and fact-resistant opponents of the equality struggle deny that we continue to have unequal pay in Denmark. On the other hand, we are far from being a place where recognition also leads to action, where we take a real fight with unequal pay and where we use the tools that we actually know work. But it is high time, because we do not solve the problem by simply putting our faces in worried folds, and we do not solve it by saying that we also think it is too bad, or by patting Sofie Linde, who in his famous speech also addressed this problem of unequal pay between men and women, on the shoulder or patting other women who have taken the fight, on the shoulder. They've taken the fight because everything has happened, far too little. As I understand it, there is a desire for political action now, and we owe it. It is actually quite strange that we in Christiansborg are still sitting on our hands, because we have plenty of tools in the drawer that we can just use, and here gender-based pay statistics are one of the most obvious. Today it is only companies with more than 35 employees that we expect it to be, but that limit should be moved, because we know that if anything works, it is transparency. Research both in Denmark and internationally points to this, so why wait? I am glad, then, that the government will call for negotiations and discussions on this later, but I still have good reason to understand why we should really wait for it. Why not tell the women who go around thinking that they get the same pay as their male colleagues that this is not necessarily the case? Why not equip them with the argument they need for their next pay negotiations? At any rate, I find it difficult to see the arguments against, apart from the old song, which we have heard a bit of now and here, that it will drown companies in bureaucracy. That point is just too easy, and we have also discussed it in this Chamber today, and frankly it should be in order. Given how little is evidently happening on its own and how effective a tool we have, in the Radical Left we are willing to pay the microscopic red tape price of allowing companies to receive a letter on gender-based pay statistics. The Radical Left can highly recommend this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111405	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111411	Thank you very much. The rapporteur said that women who think they are receiving the same pay as their male colleagues. According to the rapporteur, they do not. Then I would like to hear the rapporteur: does the rapporteur believe that there are managers and leaders around who are conscious of gender discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111439	No, actually, I don't believe that. And what is the key here is what Mrs Fatma Øktem says, i.e. whether it is conscious. I don't think it is, because it would also be illegal. But it simply takes place. We can see that when there is an unexplained pay gap. Then we know it's happening, but it's not conscious. And that's why we might as well get some transparency, so that these numbers are put on the table, both for the bosses, but also for those who are going to negotiate their pay men or women.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111509	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111513	No offense, but there's already a lot of transparency. According to the information that comes in, it is 1.5 million, i.e. which is being sent into Denmark's Statistics. Now with this bill you're going to set it up to 2 million. Can the rapporteur tell me whether there are any cases at all where equal pay is not respected? Has the rapporteur heard of any cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111543	It is clear, then, that when you look at the figures and can see an inexplicable pay gap, whether in the latest highly criticised VIVE report it is 1.8% or if it is 4.7%, then surely we can all agree that there is an inexplicable pay gap, it is well documented that this pay gap is taking place. And we must pull the tools out of the toolbox that can ensure transparency and that can ensure that women, who are after all those who are underpaid here, have that card on hand when they enter pay negotiations. That is why I would like to thank the SF and I did not just do so in order to table this motion for a resolution on which we in the Radical Left are very much in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111624	The next brief remark is from Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111632	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur uses words as a small, small thing, that is to say it should just change a little on what is submitted for statistics, etc. I simply think it is arrogance to those companies which are currently in a very, very difficult situation to believe that it does not matter that, in addition to this motion for a resolution, we place bureaucracy on the poor companies. Then there's something completely different. Listen, when we dive into the figures from the VIVE report, there's an inexplicable difference of 1.8%, i.e. 1.8%. I cannot understand where the rapporteur and the author of the Socialist People's Party are actually going with this agenda. Because there will probably always be some kind of inexplicable reason, and one of the reasons why there is a pay gap between men and women is that we choose differently. I think the Minister explained this very well. There's a difference because they don't work in the same time period. Sorry, I'm gonna sit down. So I really just want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111751	I think it's just too much to call it arrogance. It would first have been a real arrogance if I and the Radical Left did not want to solve the problem of unequal pay in Denmark to those who do not receive the salary their colleagues receive, the salary they really deserve. Then we could talk about arrogance. When Mrs Birgitte Bergman mentions that we have an extraordinary situation and that we therefore have to take extra care of businesses, I would say that we would very much like to do so in the Radical Left. But I would also like to know whether Mrs Birgitte Bergman would have supported this resolution if it had come before corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111830	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111833	No, by no means, and I wouldn't have done that because it doesn't solve the problem. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is what is really going to solve this problem. Because there is no doubt that there is a difference, but it is something quite different. It is about the educational choice we take as young women, and it is about what we can do about it. This isn't going to solve it, so companies down to ten employees have to do pay statistics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111907	Nor do I believe that this resolution, should it be implemented, can stand alone. I don't believe that. This must be seen in the context of legislation on earmarked maternity for fathers; it must be seen in the context of the fact that we are lifting more young men in terms of education; it must be seen in the context of the fact that we also have legislation on target numbers and more women on top management battles. So this is a step in the right direction. But no, I don't think it's all solved with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111938	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312111956	Thank you. I have to say that I am right to speak on behalf of our equal opportunities rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper, and on her behalf I have to say that we can support the proposal, and we can do so because we believe that insight is a good prerequisite for making the right decisions. Therefore, we believe that the insight that can emerge from the fact that there will be a relevant statistics will be suitable to support the discussions that need to take place, of what we can do to strengthen equal pay in the Danish labour market. Then I would say that there is of course some experience from the time when things were actually like this, and that is that the law is not always observed, and that is something that must be borne in mind. Then it is important that the people who have to negotiate wages in the labour market actually have insight into these statistics, and that is another important thing. So that means that there must be access to the trade unions for them to have the opportunity, as well as, of course, information that must be known to employers and such things. However, since we can now see in the debate that no legislative proposal is being tabled, that is a less relevant consideration. But Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112115	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There were no brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112143	Thank you. Today we are discussing the SF's proposal for an extension of rules on gender-based pay statistics. Today, the rules are such that companies with 35 employees and at least 10 of each sex have to conduct gender-based pay statistics, but now SF wants companies with as many as 10 employees and with 3 of each sex to conduct gender-based pay statistics. Why, then, is it a problem to tighten up the rules on gender-based pay statistics? The current rules on gender-based pay statistics have no other significance than to impose bureaucracy on companies and employees. Approx. 1.5 million employees are covered, but since the rules were introduced in 2006, there has not been a single equal pay case based on statistics. The desired sharpening will mean that approx. 2 million rather than 1.5 million employees will be covered. It is unrealistic that it will promote equality, but it will mean that many small businesses will be included, and for them it is particularly expensive and difficult to do this type of administrative work. They don't need that, especially right now. We should not think in any more burdens for our businesses, certainly not, we should think in fewer. SF and, moreover, the ideas of many of the red parties are based on the idea that an unexplained wage difference reflects discrimination. An unexplained pay gap reflects that people receive different salaries, even if they have the same kind of jobs and experience. But people in the same job and with the same experience do not necessarily do the same work. Two carpenters, two clerks, two shop workers, etc. can do a wide variety of work, including: Because they work at different companies. That's why they don't serve the same thing either. Women earn less than men in the same job with the same experience, but they also work less, have less overtime and less demanding tasks, and they have more absenteeism with pay. That's why it's no wonder they make a little less money. The gender differences mentioned are problematic and work should be done to change them, but gender-separated pay statistics have no significance in this context. I think we should look at the food chain, that is, education. It is about getting more young women to choose vocational training or one of the STEM programmes. Equality is a fundamental Danish value, and we must safeguard and fight for that, but I am not one of those who believe that women come with special competences, female competences. I do not want to be recruited on a quota, but I believe that diversity in the workplace and management is important for better results when employees with different training and experience and profiles work together. I believe that we must focus on creating genuinely equal opportunities within a framework in which companies retain their free choice and autonomy to employ the most qualified. Positive discrimination is not equality, but neglecting the ability of women. In addition, it is wrong to be forced to publish your salary. It can often be calculated more or less in the public sector, but personal pay and financial situation are simply a matter of private life. We must focus on the fact that we have equal opportunities to achieve what we want in life, regardless of gender, and then we must focus on qualifications, not gender. It is not conservative policy to interfere in business relationships or to impose additional burdens on companies. The Conservative People's Party cannot therefore support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112514	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112522	Thank you. I think we have established that Conservatives are very much against this resolution, and I am surprised because it is about getting some more statistics and some more knowledge of this area, but I understand that one of the very great reasons why you are not in favour is this burden on business. I understand that, because it is important that we do not put more bureaucracy on business. But when the rapporteur hears time and again that companies are already doing so today, the only thing that needs to happen is that Denmark's Statistics should divide up the pay statistics they already receive from companies and that companies should receive a letter, not a greater burden. Can't Conservatives support the proposal, because it sounds like it's the big deal against this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112605	Now I have been on the labour market for a lot of years, I have also run a small business myself, so the idea that it is just a small letter seems to me completely misunderstood, and I think it is a lack of understanding of what administrative burdens companies are already struggling with out there, so to neglect it and believe that it is not time-consuming or it does not create trouble and bureaucracy, is completely misunderstood. Nor do I believe, however, that as many as ten employees are involved in solving the problem that the rapporteur would like to solve, and we would also like to do so in the Conservative People's Party, just not with gender-based pay statistics down to ten people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112644	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112647	So it may well be that the rapporteur thinks it is to neglect it, but that is nevertheless exactly what is happening, and it may be that the rapporteur does not believe in me and in Samira Nawa, but it is also researchers and experts who say these things: that it is exactly the burden of receiving a letter and that Denmark's Statistics is allowed to divide up the statistics already submitted. Well, at least now it's said. What I would like to ask is whether the Conservative People's Party really thinks this is a problem, that is, the inexplicable pay gap between men and women. Because I think that in the speech we get something about the gender-based labour market and about women working less than men and something like that, but is it really a problem that women are paid less for the same work? And if Conservatives think so, will Conservatives not soon table some proposals, table some motions for resolutions, because the only thing that happens in this Chamber is that equality proposals from us are planned down and nothing comes from the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112742	Listen to me! The first unexplained difference is 1.8%, and then we have the second one, which is that 11.5%. And why is there really a difference? It turns out that it is there because we choose differently depending on whether it is a man or a woman. And what we end up in is that men often have longer to commute to work, they often take night work etc. etc. There are some explanatory differences. But what I really want to do is to get more women into vocational education and training, just like my own two daughters, one studying economics, the other studying engineering. So I think in many ways that I myself am a role model for changes to be made. So I would very much like to be involved in working for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112833	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I do not see the rapporteur from New Citizen, nor the rapporteur from LA, but on the other hand I can see that Mr. Sikandar Siddique would like to ask for the floor. So I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Mr Sikandar Siddique, before I give the floor to the rapporteur on behalf of the authors of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312112904	Sorry, it was simply because I figured that there were several rapporteurs left in the order before I came up here, but sadly that is not the case. It is clear both from our own national legislation and from the EU rules that we, as a state, are obliged to abolish any discrimination in terms of pay conditions and that we must receive equal pay for equal work and work of equal value regardless of gender. In the Free Greens, this is our guide. Any discrimination in terms of pay conditions based on sex must be abolished, but we are not yet there. Statistics still show that there are wage differences between the sexes in the Danish labour market, and this must mean that we have not done it and are still not doing it well enough. It is therefore high time that we put an end to the myth that we have equality in Denmark, and it is high time that we recognised that we have an equal pay problem in Denmark, and it is therefore high time that we put action behind our ambitions for real equality. In the Free Greens, we believe, on an equal footing with the proposers, that greater transparency and an extension of the rules on gender-based pay statistics in Denmark will make a difference. The more we, as politicians, decision-makers and citizens, see and know about the problem, the more opportunities and incentives we are created to find solutions. The European Commission has, inter alia: concluded that one of the challenges of implementing the principle of equal pay is a lack of transparency in pay systems and that greater transparency in pay will have a positive effect. That is why we welcome the proposal in the Free Greens. So thank you to the SF. Thank you for that). I'm not done yet. Oh. Well, there's plenty of time left. Here you go). Yes, there is. This is clearly a step in the right direction, but with that in mind, it is also the view of the Free Greens that even more needs to be done and that the proposal alone cannot bring us to the end. The SF and the Radical Left have also pointed this out in the past. Gender-based pay differences are closely linked to other gender challenges such as gender equality. the gender-separated labour market. If we want to achieve equal pay and, in the long term, equality in Denmark, we will have to work hard, systematically and structurally. This requires a 360-degree review of the labour market and of all contours of our society. There are many places to take inspiration, for example. in our Nordic neighbouring countries, which rank at the top of the Global Gender Gap Index, where one among others. has chosen more comprehensive and ambitious models for ensuring equal pay for equal work and work of equal value. In the Free Greens, we will continue to push to raise the level of ambition for gender equality work in Denmark. We'll do that until we get to the finish line. The proposal to extend the rules on gender-based pay statistics deserves support, because greater openness in terms of pay and wage differences is a key tool in the fight to achieve equal pay. You have the support of the Free Greens for this proposal and now I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312113225	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Astrid Carøe, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312113248	Thank you. Thank you for a very good debate and some good contributions, and thank you to the parties that have indicated their support for this proposal. In 1976 we were allowed equal pay in Denmark. This was the year in which wage discrimination on grounds of sex was banned, but we have never complied with the principle. In Denmark, on average, men earn about 13%. more than women, and if you check for sectors and training backgrounds, there is still a pay gap remaining, an unexplained difference of between 4 and 7%. It's fucked up. Let me just stress once again: these are men and women who do the same work, yet they are paid differently. And it's structural sexism. After all, it is quite difficult to deal with wage differences if you do not know that they are there, just as we have been far too many places in fighting sexual harassment, until the problem was finally shed light in the autumn. That is why the differences in pay must also be seen in the open. I believe that some of the cure for creating equal pay in Denmark is the same. The cure is openness. We need to talk more about pay. Employers must be open about pay, which must be transparent wage conditions and gender-based wage statistics, including in the country's smaller companies. The causes of unequal pay are many. The solutions must therefore go on several legs. An outdated civil service reform which pays the traditional women's professions lower than the traditional male professions is a factor; it is a reform which, for half a century, has provided a discriminatory wage framework. Nor does the crooked sharing of maternity leave, where mother goes home with the child 9 out of 10 days, make it any better. While at home, women are lagging behind in wage negotiations because they are away from the labour market for a long time, just as the pension assets are also being reduced. Unequal pay is thus a long-lasting legacy, an evil spiral that follows women from the start of our working life, from the time we are newly educated and newly trained, until we retire where we can look forward to a pension that is 25%. lower than our men's 25 percent.! But the good news is that we can get rid of unequal wages if we want to. It just requires the right tools. That is why I am pleased that the Minister will help open the toolbox, even if this proposal is not supported. However, gender-based pay statistics are today a tool that employers and employees and shop stewards can use to promote gender equality in the workplace. In the past, we have had a demand for gender-based pay statistics, including in smaller companies. However, when we had a blue government in 2015, some progress was rolled back. Fewer companies now had to keep statistics on male and female employees' wages. Only companies with more than 35 employees were required to produce gender-based pay statistics. But now we have a new political majority, and that is why I wanted to see if there was not a majority to restore this rule. Unfortunately, there is not, but I am glad that we will have to discuss this further with the Minister. But to me, it can only be too slow to extend this system again. And what I am proposing is really just a roll-back of the retrograde step taken by the bourgeois government in this area in 2015. All enterprises with employees equal to at least 10 full-time employees, of which at least three men and three women with the same job function, shall be subject to the rules on gender-based pay statistics. Denmark is hopelessly foot-timing in the area of equal pay. For example, if you look at Iceland, which, according to the World Economic Forum, is the world's most equal country, companies risk fines if they cannot show a certificate for having implemented equal pay. If you look at the European Union, the Commission has just presented an exciting new proposal for a directive aimed at creating wage transparency in the European labour markets, and that is also something we work hard to achieve visionary in Brussels; there is my good colleague Kira Marie Peter-Hansen with it. What do we do in Denmark? We're sitting on our hands. We are so heavy on our hands that the United Nations has recently condemned Denmark's low level of equal pay. Denmark graduated from the UN Convention on Women, and if there had been characterization, then I think we had failed. It was even particularly pointed out why the requirement for gender-based pay statistics should only apply to enterprises with more than 35 employees. And I'm asking the same question. In the debate here, there have been several arguments against voting in favour of this bill. Some have argued that we should not impose unnecessary bureaucracy on companies, and certainly not in a severe coronatide. I can say quite clearly: unnecessary bureaucracy, no thank you, but efforts for equality win the whole of society on, including companies, also the economic bottom line. And so it is actually the case that employers with at least ten employees are already reporting figures to Danmarks Statistik, regardless of whether gender-separated wage statistics are then made or not. Moreover, this is done automatically through the pay system of companies. So if someone calls this a burden, it's a burden that already exists. Then the question is whether it works. And there I have talked to experts and researchers who say that this is absolutely necessary, especially that part with three men and three women in the same job function, in order to have more transparency in this area. So I lean on the experts who say that this will work, that it will provide more transparency and therefore more focus on the area. Then let's do it. Then the question is, is it quite the same thing they do? And it will be, because the way you do this gender-separated pay statistics is by being men and women in the same job function, that is right down to the same DISCO code. So it'll be the same job they have. So it will not be two different job functions that you weigh against each other. Finally, there is the argument that pay is a private matter and that it is not nice to have your salary published somewhere if you do not want to. And I agree with that; of course we should not. I would encourage people to do so. I think that in general we talk too little about wages in Denmark, perhaps particularly women, but of course you should not have it published if you do not want to. But it's not a problem with this bill. It takes a very, very large amount of formal knowledge to calculate the individual employee's salary according to this gender-based salary statistics, even if you put it so far down. This has also been confirmed at a time when Mette Frederiksen was Minister for Employment, in an answer that I can send to the members of the committee if you are interested in it or concerned about it. So now that I have argued against the arguments against this proposal, I hope that in committee we will find out that there are several parties to support this proposal. And if there isn't, I'm just looking forward to the discussions we're going to have after the summer break in order to get rid of unequal wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312113958	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114011	I just want to take this opportunity to say thank you again to the SF. This is a proposal that is absolutely necessary. In relation to the whole debate that has taken place today on red tape in relation to equality, we in the Free Greens therefore feel that if it costs a little bureaucracy, it has to do so. We therefore need equal pay and equality in Denmark. I would just like to hear the rapporteur's views on the proposal: it will, of course, provide some data and facts, but can the rapporteur imagine that this proposal can actually do more than just provide some data and facts, so that it may be a stepping stone to work more vigorously in order to compensate for wage differences? In addition, I would like to know whether SF is ready to go further in relation to what is happening, for example. in the Icelandic model, where companies are actually subject to a penalty or other if they do not comply with the wage differences. Is the SF ready to go further?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114114	Thank you. I think it will certainly have a meaning. In other words, in addition to getting more statistics and thus getting more information about this which could create some debate, it will also come out if some companies do not comply with the 1976 law. And as Samira Nawa said, it will also mean that as a woman you can go up and say: I can see that in my profession the salary is at this level, and of course I must have that too. So you can also use it in wage negotiations. And I think there's gonna be a lot of things you could do with this proposal besides using it for statistics. In relation to whether or not we want to go further, I have not yet taken a position on that. I think we should try to see whether this is working so that some of the measures that are less energy-consuming, because it is actually extremely important for us in the SF that we do not create more bureaucracy for companies if we can avoid it at all. So we're gonna start with this and see if it couldn't work, and then, of course, I hope there will be even more action when we discuss this with the minister after summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114208	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114211	Yes, it is really, really important, because we are very lagged behind in relation to our neighbouring countries. It is actually embarrassing how much we lag behind. That is why there is a real need to act right now. After all, we are fortunate enough that the SF and the Radical Left are sitting with the crucial mandates, and we are currently sitting with a social democratic government, and the Enhedslisten and the Free Greens also support, I should like to say, in relation to the equality struggle. That is why I am very much looking forward to discussing our proposal on the reform of the civil service very soon. I look forward to the negotiations that are going on in this area, and then let us just give it a lot of gas. So thank you to the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114258	Thank you. We certainly look forward to that too. And we have to conclude that there are many ambitions in the area of equality, and then we just have to bring the government along too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114305	Thank you. Then it's Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114311	It is not news that we see very, very different things and I can hardly be in my body when I can hear the rapporteur talking about what it is companies must because I think they actually take a huge responsibility out there. Then you will hear how the solutions to how we achieve equality fall out of the platform. I would just like to remind the rapporteur that this has been done here before in Denmark. If we want that knowledge, the rapporteur says yes, but we have it. It just didn't lead to anything back then. So, the reason why it was abolished in 2016, as the Minister also said at the time, was that it was not a solution to those challenges. I have a question for the rapporteur. The rapporteur has spoken to a great many different people in this area. Has the rapporteur also spoken with, for example, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? DA? It is they who, like the rapporteur, carry out the structural sexism that the rapporteur describes as the problem. So has the rapporteur also been in dialogue with the DA?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114430	Thank you. Yes, there is a stream of solutions from my hand, and I wish there were also a lot more solutions from the Left, since this is not a solution. I would like to say this again: this is not a burden on companies, because they are already breaking up their pay statistics today. The only thing we need Denmark's Statistics to do is divide it into gender. So compared to what I was asked, had I talked to DA? I have talked to DI, and we naturally see quite different things, but DI is also extremely concerned that there will be better equal pay in this area, and they are, as far as I understand, well satisfied with the fact that there are gender-based pay statistics. Then, of course, you can discuss how far it should go down. And I and scientists and experts in this area say that it would be very beneficial to get along, in particular with three employees, three men and three women in the same function. That's what they say is the most important thing in terms of getting more openness in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114529	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114533	Thank you very much. Yes, the rapporteur will probably know much better than the Danish employers whether this will work or whether it will be a burden for them or whether it will be extra tasks, especially at a time when it is really difficult for them and how many of them are struggling to survive. But the rapporteur probably knows more about that than they do, so that's understandable how it was irony. I would like to ask the rapporteur something else. With this, there'll still be a chance that you won't get that clarity. If I just have to look at it a little bit in the cards, you can still be away under the same code and have fewer agreements in terms of pay. Isn't that possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114611	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114614	I would like to start by saying that it is not me who is saying this, yes, I am saying that it is a solution, but I am saying it because a number of researchers and experts in this area say that this is a solution. I've been talking to Danish Industry. I haven't talked to DA, I'm sorry. I'll do that. As to whether there are no situations, yes, you have seniority and all sorts of other things. But when we see structuralally that women get less than men, that is, women do not necessarily have shorter seniority than men, then there is a problem, and that is what we would like to see clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114643	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114649	Thank you. I am smiling at the rapporteur today because it is quite a struggle for equality in Denmark. I do not think that anyone in this Chamber is in favour of equality in Denmark. We have a law on equality, and we have a law on equal pay. Where I am just a little too sorry about the motion for a resolution tabled by the rapporteur today is that I simply do not believe that it will solve the challenge that is undoubtedly on the labour market. I also regret that the rapporteur has not consulted the Danish Employers' Association. I think that is a damn shame, because there has not been a single equal pay case since the start of the statistics was introduced in 2006. I would like the rapporteur to point out where there is certainly no possibility of equal pay today and to tell us whether it is not also because we as men and women choose differently. We have different approaches to the way we want to work and adapt as families. I guess it also has a contagion on what the statistics say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114812	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114814	It does, and it's also sorted out. When you take the inexplicable pay difference, it's sorted out. There is an inexplicable structural pay gap of 1.8%, and fine enough that we then take the figure 1.8%, which comes from a very scolded report, because there is an explanation of gender, and it is problematic in statistical terms, but peace with it. If you sort out everything the rapporteur mentions, then this pay difference is still gone. Then I would say that I think it is so unfortunate that the other rapporteurs have not listened to the researchers and experts who actually recommend this proposal. Now that I have to know that I should have listened more to the DA, perhaps you could listen to some of the researchers who are sitting here on a daily basis and who are proposing exactly what is in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114903	Here you go, Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114908	I am also listening to them, certainly because it is important to hear both sides of a matter. But what I believe is going to help solve this is about getting young women into vocational training and into STEM education, which is about engineering, engineering, management and economics and things like that. So does the rapporteur not recognise that this is really where the starting point lies for us to get rid of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312114940	I fully recognise that a very large part of the pay gap in Denmark is due to the gender-separated labour market and because traditional women's professions are paid lower than traditional male occupations. But when we're talking about this particular proposal, we're talking about the inexplicable difference in pay, and that's where you've sorted it out with more men in the STEM subjects and all these things. That's where it's sorted out. I think we should work on that too. I think we should work much more with openness in our education system so that we can be better placed in the education system, even if we as a man may choose a very female-dominated education. But this isn't about that. It's about the unexplained pay gap.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312115018	Thank you. There are no more requests for comments, so the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312115039	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312115054	Thank you. Many of us were delighted that we managed to limit the possibility of linking quick loans with gambling. To give people the impression that when a quick loan is drawn, the big gain can be secured in quotation marks and thus completely change their life situation is a dangerous picture to paint for people. Over this reading a great many advertisements were cut, especially advertisements, which were carried by live pictures, films and the like, which allow to draw conclusions, short-circuits that take place bypassing common sense. Everyone who knows the least about gambling knows that common sense suggests that the winning chances are micro-small, whereas debt processing goes quickly and easily becomes macro-large. A good advice when taking part in games is: Consider what you play for, as lost, and take your possible prize as a rare orange in the tour. This is responsible game, which allows for daydreaming and can give a little butterflies in the stomach before the game is decided. The game also allows us to support sensible activities in our societies such as culture, sport and sport. Such is the institutionalized game created by the formation of the Danish Tip Service back in 1947, I think it was. We thought that we had secured the individual citizen against the trap of the game, but the consumer Ombudsman's interpretation of the law was so strict that access to the part of the game we would like to see, namely the creation of funds for culture, sport and sport, was cut. On top of this, we excluded the financial sector, which otherwise often complements the economic foundations of culture, sport and sport. If a financial institution offered a single product, a loan where the total ÅOP came across the limit of 25%, as stated by the law, then it was not possible to be a sponsor or get its advertising into the activity supported. This strict interpretation risked cutting the nerves between leisure activities in a broad sense and possible sponsors. It was not sustainable and I am pleased to be able to congratulate the Minister for Business today for having restored responsibility in a double sense: the protection of the citizen from irresponsible gambling and the guarantee that responsible gambling can open up sources of funding for our cultural and sports life. Social democracy supports, even happily, L 173.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312115352	Thank you. We shall proceed to the next rapporteur when the alcohol has been spilled. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312115414	Aggressive marketing of quick loans and betting ads filled very much earlier it grew very violently and fast loans with extremely high interest rates tempted some people to play for borrowed money, and it was expensively borrowed money. Interest at 7-800 per cent. was not abnormal. That is why we in the Left helped to put an end to this when, in December 2019, we reached a broad political agreement to set a ceiling on interest rates on consumer loans. The ceiling was 35% but was accompanied by a marketing ban for loans with interest rates of more than 25%. For us, it was essential to put an end to the extremely high interest rates, with the ceiling of 35%. We thought that we were putting an end to the unhappy situation in which some are tempted by expensive and fast money to play for. However, we were concerned about whether the ban on the simultaneous marketing of consumer loans and betting would become too rigid and create problems, and we saw this unfortunately become reality: police reports against financial institutions because they had sponsored a football player who played at a football stadium where there was a gang ad for a betting company, and certainly when the Workers' Landbank had to suspend its sponsorship of the football team, as the national team was simultaneously sponsored by Danske Spille. The situation was for me to see a good example of the fact that the previous rules went too far. Then, in September, we had the first negotiations to find a solution to this problem, and I think that September was a long time ago. I think the bill could have been presented earlier, but better late than never. Because if we do not act, it will have major consequences for Danish sports and association life, as we know it today, because it is a very large amount of sponsorship, which is really crucial for the economy of many sports sectors. Both elite sport, but also broad sport, are deeply dependent on sponsorship, and if you cut off the entire financial sector from sponsoring, it is therefore very, very large millions of dollars that can no longer support our sports life, cultural life and general purpose. So it is quite reasonable that there should now be an exception for the marketing of sports organisations and non-profit-making associations and foundations, because it does not make sense if a local financial institution can get into trouble because it has sponsored a backdrop for a prize podie and then a bike rider steps up on the victorious chasm of gaming ads on the shirt. It got way too square. I would also like to point out that criticism has been levelled at the fact that the combined marketing ban is generally in line with EU rules in this area. When we adopted the Quick Loan Act, we in the Left noted in the report that it was the responsibility of the government to ensure that legislation was, moreover, in line with EU law. That is what has been called into question, among other things. based on the Danish car importers, to which we have received an answer from the government, and I have to say that the response from the Chamber Attorney is a seldom weak defence of the law's compliance with EU law, and I therefore fear that the issue will ultimately have to be settled in the courts. I would therefore like the government to take this issue more seriously. The purpose of the legislative proposal itself, the modest change in the paragraph, is a clear improvement on the current situation and it ensures that sponsorships can continue from the financial area to the whole of the sports area and the non-profit area. There is absolutely a need for this. These are also some of the associations and clubs that are hard hit by corona at the moment, and it is therefore of course sensible that we should ensure that they can continue to receive sponsorships for a very large amount of money. That is why the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312115832	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312115850	One can be tempted to say better late than never when one looks at the case that has been since we concluded the agreement on the action against foolhardy quick loans in Denmark. It was already back in week 29 that we as business rapporteurs were confronted with the absurd situation, namely that there were these doubts about whether it was even legal to have these sponsorship agreements, which were between, for example, Danske Spil and Arbejdernes Landsbank and a given league club in football in Denmark or with the Danish women's team. Several parties asked for clarification of this. We fully recognised, and this also applies to the Danish People's Party, that we were in the agreement, and we also helped to make up for the bad part of it that we are now trying to make up for. That is why, of course, it was also good that we reached a political agreement back in January, which had to rectify it. That is, of course, the reason why we are today faced with the draft law put forward by the Minister on amendments to Section 11 of the Marketing Act. It is of course a shame to hear when you look at some of the feedback we have received from the industry that among other things. Danish advertisers and market leaders say that the short consultation period in itself gives cause for great criticism because it has made it impossible to have satisfactory access to documents. It has not been easy for the parties to obtain the information typically obtained by applying for access to documents if they believe that the political agreements reached here at Christiansborg are not in favour, joy and benefit for the trade organisations. We must, of course, recognise that they have an eye for the industry. In this case, you also have an eye on the legislation. It is therefore of course worrying that both the Danish car importers and Danish advertisers and market leaders claim that it is considered to be contrary to EU law. I don't need to know who's right, whether it's the DA or who it is. Time will tell. It has been announced that there may be some legal proceedings about it. Of course, we will deal with them. However, on the part of the Danish People's Party, we would certainly like to say that it is a pity that in March 2021 we are still getting this criticism and hearing that concern after the matter was actually clarified back in the summer of 2020. Of course, we support the draft law, and we also support it on the basis of the explanatory statement which the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, that we have received notes from the Minister, who had to prove that we are on a legal basis. That is a good start for the legislative work. But we will certainly follow it in the work of the committee, and if new information should come before we come to the third reading, we will of course also ask questions about them and clarify it. However, I would also like to say now that if there were to be any feedback at a later stage, which would challenge it further in relation to Article 11 of the Marketing Act and the points in it, as well as in relation to EU law and the criticisms that have been made in its assessment, we will of course follow up on that too. However, we will rely on what has been put forward and we will support the legislative proposal as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312120240	Thanks, and I'm gonna have to get a drink. The next rapporteur is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312120300	Thank you. In the SF we were basically very pleased with the agreement that was made about quick loans. It was important for SF to prevent young people and others from being exposed, such as: watching a football match, being lured into borrowing a loan and then coming out in an incalculable debt. But afterwards we have also listened to the fact that sports clubs and sportsmen, but also sports events, for example. Something like the Olympics, bike races, etc., could get hit by this law. We will solve this by adjusting the marketing ban so that it does not apply to physical advertising and sponsorship of sports teams and non-profit-making associations and foundations, if you do not offer a loan with an ÅOP of more than 25%. It is important for SF that this adjustment does not apply to TV or online. However, for the sake of good order, we need to clarify whether this will make it possible for a football match, for example. just before the start of the game or after, right after the promotional blocks, will be a presentation of a quick loan with a gaming provider, for it does not approve of SF. With that said, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312120419	Thank you. We move on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312120433	Thank you. Firstly, I would like to say that I hope we agree with the agreement we have, that with the agreement we made, we have abolished quick loans and that they are therefore no longer on the market. It is just to make it absolutely clear that when quick loans are mentioned from up here in a row, I think it is important that we stick to the fact that when we have created the ÅOP ceiling that we have, they have been abolished. However, when such legislation has been made here, it may happen that there is a mistake, and one must also be able to admit it when something is inappropriate, and it has to be said that it has proved to be in this case. As Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen pointed out that the most obvious thing was the Workers' National Bank's sponsorship of our national team. We need to make that right now. And besides, there's just a call for you to get started on the whole regulation of these gaming ads. It is not with the business rapporteurs or the Minister for Industry, but, as far as I understand it, with regard to taxation, and from this point of view there is just an invitation to the tax minister to get those negotiations started. With those words, I would just like to say that Radicals support the bill, and then I should like to welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312120556	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur, and this is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312120611	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. Nearly a year ago, after intense negotiations, the government put forward what became L 149 and which the subtitle had signed with quick loans and so on. Perhaps not so many people had thought that "m.v." should be read as a dispute with the consumer loan companies' ability to support the Danish sports world with sponsorship agreements, which is definitely devastating for both big and small in the world of sport and to go too far. I said in my rapporteur's speech last year that the agreement went too far and that the law shot grey sparrows with guns. I said that the marketing ban alone would hit very serious companies very hard and that at the same time it would put Danish companies at a disadvantage compared to their foreign competitors. That is why Conservatives were not included in the agreement and, unless I was able to convince my good rapporteurs of vital changes in committee, we would vote a huge 'no' vote, despite the fact that I had worked intensively with a fight with the wild and unacceptable quick loans. It is positive that the parties behind the law have now also come to the conclusion that it was quite unnecessary that the fight against loans with biker interest rates should result in Danish football and handball clubs suddenly losing sponsorship revenues in the millions class. That is why I am pleased to say that we support the proposed legislation. It is not because it solves all the problems of the current marketing ban, but because it is a step in the right direction. Could I ask the parties to the agreement to take a slightly larger step? Because, despite the proposed changes that we are discussing here, the rules continue to make it very difficult for ordinary consumer credit companies to market their products and services on the electronic media in particular. Last year we had a few companies past the Business Committee, which explained the challenges that will still exist, even after this change of law. If the book had been completely forgotten, let me remind you of the most important challenge, namely that if a consumer loan company wants to advertise via banner advertising on, for example. a website, the company has no influence on whether at the same time or immediately afterwards there is also a gambling company that advertises on the same website. We have no chance of controlling that. Nevertheless, the consumer loan business can be penalised for infringement of the Marketing Act if the two advertisements are shown in context, even if the company does not advertise a consumer loan at all, but may just point out that they offer particularly favourable terms in a deposit account or will provide good advice on pension savings. It just doesn't make any sense. I do not think that any of us in this way disagree with the fact that we have to do what we can to ensure that gambling people do not end up in a bottomless debt as a result of a marketing that entices gambling players to finance their gambling with consumer loans, but the marketing ban goes much, much further than that. I would therefore also like to try again in the forthcoming committee's work to convince my continuing good rapporteur colleagues that we can further relax the marketing ban. And read the hearing answers. It has been an unacceptable short consultation process, but read them, let us have a look at some of them, and then let us have a talk in committee about whether you do not want to look at this proposal again. Regardless of that, we are voting, as I said earlier, of course for the improvement of the Quick Loan Act, which unfortunately a majority knocked together last year, and which at the same time banged its forehead against a wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312120951	Thank you. There are no comments here either. There is no rapporteur here from the New Citizens' Party, nor from the Liberal Alliance, so that is why it is now the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312121007	Thank you for that and also thank you for the many good comments made by the Members present on the draft law here. After all, it is a bill that aims to support that there may continue to be sponsorship income for Danish sports and association life, despite the ban in the Marketing Act against the marketing of consumer credit companies and credit agreements to consumers in connection with the marketing of gambling or gambling providers. It is a bill that implements the political agreement concluded between the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten on 19 January, and which adjusts the agreement for a dispute with quick loan from December 2019. The draft law exempts consumer credit companies from the prohibition on the marketing of consumer credit companies and credit agreements to consumers in connection with the marketing of gambling or gambling providers, provided that the consumer loan company does not offer loans with annual costs of 25%. or above. As there was a desire in the contract circle for the changes to enter into force as soon as possible, the draft law has been submitted in consultation in parallel with the submission of the draft law on Wednesday 24 February, and the adjustments made in the light of the comments made by both colleagues in the contract circle and the consultations received will therefore be included in an amendment to the draft law leading to the second reading of the draft law. More specifically, the consultation responses provide an opportunity to adjust the proposed derogation and its comments so that the facilitation not only ensures sponsorship for sports organisations, but also for individual sportsmen and sports facilities such as sports halls and the like, as well as sporting events such as sports events. national, regional or even global championships as well as the Olympic Games. The relief must also include Team Denmark as the self-owned non-profit organisation, and at the same time it is specified that the exemption applies regardless of where the marketing takes place and whether it is the sponsoring or sponsoring company that appears as the sender. What is crucial is that the marketing is carried out as part of a sponsorship. For example, the sponsoring company must: would like to mention the sponsorship on its own website or its own social media. In addition, it should be clarified in the legislative text that there must be a written sponsorship agreement before the derogation applies. We maintain the ban as agreed when it comes to advertising in television and advertising blocks, online or in other contexts where there is no direct sponsorship. So thank you for your comments and I look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312121312	Thank you for that, and there are no comments to the Minister either. So the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312121328	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312121346	Thank you. I believe that everyone will agree with me that we have an experience that this bill, which is a superstructure for the implementation of EU material, is a technically complex legislative proposal. For my own sake, I tried to illustrate this when I was going to write this speech by recalling an experience that I had had a few years ago when I visited a chicken farmer in northern Jutland. It was a skilled farmer who told about the conditions under which there was to produce chickens. The chicken feed came from a rough product company, and there were two possible suppliers of which you could choose from. Chickens were sold when they were big enough to a retail chain, and there were two of them. That means there were four people sitting there and deciding the fate of this chicken farmer. This cannot be called a well-functioning market, at least not when there are four major players and then a small player who is responsible for the production of the product being manufactured. It certainly indicated to me that such a market calls for protection or regulation in favour of the weakest links. The proposal for a law on unfair commercial practices in relations between companies in the agricultural and food supply chain is a sensible step to take against the background of the EU directive, and it is so ensured that Denmark is not alone and thus stands out from an otherwise well-functioning market. In addition to setting payment deadlines at a decent level, there are a large number of provisions that are now helping to keep their hands on market principles in order to destroy the weakest link, because we do not guarantee such protection, we risk destroying Danish jobs and companies in large numbers. In relation to what I mentioned at the outset, namely that this is a technically complex proposal, I would like to announce here that I would like to call for a technical review with the Minister of Industry or the Ministry of Industry between first and second reading, so that we can have an opportunity to examine some of the issues that we are dealing with. Moreover, the proposal fits well into a socialist rule of thumb on the market economy, and the rule of thumb states: as much market as possible and as much regulation as necessary. And here we follow the law of necessity to the best of my knowledge, and the Social Democratic Party supports L 184, but will follow up in the forthcoming committee work with clarifying questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312121658	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312121718	Thank you for the floor. The very clear starting point in Denmark is that there is freedom of agreement between traders in the business sector. This is a fundamental principle, which means that as politicians we do not interfere in the negotiations between two operators, and I think that is actually a very good principle, which is generally worth holding onto. For we are going to regulate the free debate first in one place, why should we not do it elsewhere as well? However, this principle is now being challenged by the implementation of the EU directive on unfair commercial practices, which is what the bill is about. In the Left, we are very much in favour of the European Union and the internal market, even when there are rules that we would really like to be left out of, and that is the situation that I find here today as the rapporteur of the Left. The aim of the directive is quite noble: that small food suppliers should not be exposed to unfair commercial practices when dealing with large purchasers, often large supermarket chains. It is very noble, and there are also examples of some being treated in a way that many may not want to be. However, the extent of the problem in Denmark is now likely to differ widely. The compulsory task for us now is therefore how we implement the directive in the smartest way in Denmark, and it is not actually straightforward. We can, of course, choose a minimum implementation, which is what we are pleased about in the Left, because the rules apply in the fewest possible cases, and that means that the freedom of agreement is reduced as little as possible. It's appealing to me. We can also opt for a maximum overimplementation: that the rules apply to everyone. It ensures competitiveness that no supplier can offer better payment terms than others. This ensures uniform competition. That's what appeals to me, too. At the same time, different approaches will have an impact on the administrative costs the proposal will entail. The organization of a specific enterprise may also be important. Two otherwise similar food producers can offer different payment terms. If one supplier is a self-employed company, one set of rules applies. If another supplier is part of a larger group, another set of rules applies. In the Left, it is our approach to ensure the implementation of EU rules with the lowest possible burden and the most fair and equal competition. We are working to ensure that we do not put Danish suppliers at a disadvantage in international competition, and we do not want a potential deterioration in the competitiveness of Danish purchasers in relation to foreign purchasers in the form of cross-border trade. I am not aware of the government's internal considerations behind this bill, but I sense that the government has been somewhat through the same considerations as we have been in the Left. Because the draft law, as it stands, is a compromise proposal between the various considerations, and I recognise that the government has tried to weigh the various opposing considerations against each other. I would like to acknowledge this, and in general terms I believe that the government has found a sensible model which seeks to strike the right balance between the various considerations that are quite obvious in this matter and that are contradictory. However, there are, of course, a number of issues on which we must continue to work during the committee procedure. We must ensure that there is no possibility of circumvention which puts Danish suppliers at a disadvantage in international competition, and we must avoid a potential deterioration in the competitiveness of Danish purchasers, for example through the opportunities for cross-border trade, and then the consultation answers raise concerns about the implementation of the directive in relation to Danish cooperatives and Danish cooperative practices, and that is something we must also dig deeper into. Finally, we are basically talking about regulating matters which we normally leave to traders themselves to regulate, and therefore the consequences of the law should also be evaluated and very much like after relatively short use, because it is therefore important that the concrete impact of the legislation also matches the intentions behind it. So there is certainly something that needs to be clarified in the further work on the legislative proposal, but the basic theme of the proposal is that we can hum on the Left side. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312122159	Thank you. There's no comment here either, and then it's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party, next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312122219	It is perhaps very well-chosen that a bill like this should be such a Friday, where I had almost said that there is the very nearest presence here in the Danish Parliament, unfortunately. Perhaps some people have been tempted to stay away completely. We have also noted that there are parties that do not participate in the debate at all, and I think that is a pity, because it is actually • whether you like it or not • important legislation that we are dealing with. It is, of course, always so, but it is particularly so in relation to what we are dealing with now, because it is precisely as the rapporteur of the Left said, a debate about the freedom of agreement that exists in Denmark between free suppliers in free independent businesses. In the Danish People's Party, we recognise that the way in which payment deadlines have been practised has been quite unsustainable and there have been bad examples of payment periods of 6 months in relation to the delivery of e.g. food. Among other things, it has. This meant that some of those who are small suppliers and who settle VAT every three months have actually had to pay their VAT to the state, to the large cash fund before they have even received the money for the goods they have sold and made available to customers. After all, it is an absurd situation for small businesses to be over-credited. It is simply absurd, but that is actually what has been the case. This is the kind of thing that provokes many politicians, and that is of course also what makes it possible for us, even though we have such a relatively liberal heart in the Danish People's Party, to understand that this is not a fair competitive situation, especially with regard to the small suppliers of goods in Denmark, also in the food sector, which is specifically the subject of this specific legislative proposal. We need to ensure that small suppliers, which are by far, by far the majority, experience a satisfactory competitive situation and that some demands do not overstep us in relation to excessive payment deadlines. Then it is true that the government has come up with a proposal now for a so-called minimum implementation of the 2019 Council Directive on the establishment of unfair commercial practices and also in relation to payment deadlines. And there you put up a model where it is so that a company with a turnover of more than 350 million. The euro has to agree on a maximum payment period of up to 60 days for agricultural and food products. But what is then the schism is: what about those suppliers who have a turnover of less than 350 million? Euro? In other words, we can take the typical example of Arla, where the amount is above, which in this way can be charged a maximum payment period of 60 days, and then Thise, which does not come into the same turnover, and there you will then in principle be able to experience a slightly more wild west-like approach to what you can impose on payment deadlines. Is that fair? Well, if you like competition, of course that's fair. However, it is not fair that the big billions store should be sheltered behind an EU regulation, an EU directive, and that the other can just deliver on some other grounds. There is no ad hoc competition; there is no freedom of contract when some suppliers experience a different competitive situation from others. That's why this bill isn't good enough. The Danish People's Party believes that it is wrong to outline the figures as has been done, and I can also see that in other consultation answers, such as those from Agriculture & Food, there are concerns about regulating trade between shareholders and their cooperatives, among others. in relation to the free price model, phasing-out of GMO feed, connection to the animal welfare mark, etc., precisely because we will be able to shelter ourselves from this law that we are considering today. It is of course important that there are guarantees for the minority of shareholders in companies where the Danish legislative implementation may be considered to challenge the democratically agreed production and delivery conditions. I think that this is one of the things that should at least be highlighted in the committee's work on this proposal. We will not be able to support this bill unless there is an advocacy between Arla and Thise. And it may be that you can't see it and that you think it seems funny, but anyway, it's just the conditions, the way it is. We cannot stand here in the Folketing and say that this is freedom of agreement and free healthy competition when there is a difference in how to offer competitive conditions to different food suppliers in Denmark. So that is a no thank you from the Danish People's Party on the current basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312122744	Thank you. That was exactly speaking time. There is no comment, and then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312122805	The aim of this directive is to reduce the incidence of unfair commercial practices in business relations. The protection lies in banning a number of specific commercial practices which are considered unreasonable. For example: large buyers shall not require smaller suppliers to pay longer than 30-60 days for perishable goods and other goods respectively, nor shall they cancel an order at short notice. We have from the SF for approx. 1 year ago proposed a regulation of the ceiling on payment deadlines. I remember that because it was my first resolution ever in this Chamber. We have therefore also been pleased that a similar solution is now being proposed. This is the protection of small businesses, in particular, in unequal situations of negotiation. Of course, we are not supposed to regulate all aspects of contracts made between companies, but there are a number of problems in this area, so that larger companies really have the opportunity to draw on the small ones. The proposal does not provide for a detailed turnover limit for when the rules apply, and we think that makes sense in keeping the rules simple. We have also understood that the draft law should not hinder the ability of Danish companies to enter into contracts with foreign companies, and in that light SF can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312122935	Thank you. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312122954	Thank you. If we take a thoughtful negotiating situation, we have two parties, a buyer and a seller who, in an equal power relationship, find a solution in which both make a good deal. That is not always the case. Actors in the market vary in size and dominance, and if it is even an unequal distribution, for example. the number of suppliers, and there are few, but very large, buyers, then a situation arises where they can be less pressured by the larger ones, for example. to accept unduly long payment periods for their goods or services. This is the unequal balance of power in trade, which this bill is trying to stem. Although we can understand the intention to protect the small ones on the market, let me say straight away that the Radicals are not in favour of the Christiansborgs interfering in the fundamental freedom of agreement between two private players. It's a bad thing. But now we are in a situation where Europeans have considered that there is a need to intervene and define fair commercial practices in this area, including a payment deadline. There is nothing new about this, it can be said, since the provisions of the interest rate law already have 30 days as a starting point as a maximum payment deadline. The only problem is that it is not being respected and that we have seen inexplicablely long payment deadlines and examples of some being openly used as a form of liquidity bank. We understand that the proposal envisages a Danish implementation in which the vast majority of stakeholders can see themselves and where equality in terms of competition and negotiation is taken into account, and we support it. However, we are aware that there are still differences, we are aware that this is a kind of compromise where a lot of people have eaten camels. In the Radical Left, we attach three importance to further work. Firstly, if we cannot have the freedom of agreement, the objective is agreement. As is also repeated in several of the consultation answers, we prefer the freedom of agreement, but in the situation we are in now, we prefer legislation that applies to everyone and with a single upper turnover limit in relation to the payment deadline. Secondly, the legislation must not cause undue administrative trouble. Implementation with the proposed turnover band might have ensured that no protection is granted to operators that are significantly less vulnerable than their parties or competitors. On the other hand, the stairs model creates a lot of complexity and an unclear system, which is why we believe that a good balance has been found here. Thirdly, the safeguarding of the Danish cooperative model is important. We are concerned that the provisions do not go beyond the business model of the Danish cooperative movement. However, it is our understanding that this has been dealt with, but of course we will also focus on this in the work of the committee. In general, we do not want Danish overimplementation, but at the same time it is our assessment that a model has been found that serves the purpose and that, at the same time, we ensure equal negotiating conditions and avoid administrative hell for companies. We are also concerned with effective enforcement. The Competition and Consumer Authority is an enforcement authority, and effective enforcement is crucial to the law's impact. We hope that the Minister will give us a little more insight into how enforcement will be organised. Are we talking about spot checks, reports, interviews, what are we talking about and what resources are allocated to the task of the Competition and Consumer Authority? As I am sure you will see, the Radical Left supports the proposal, but it is never at all cost to interfere in the freedom of agreement, and that is why we would also like to stress the importance of an evaluation, which has also been set up and which thoroughly examines both the real impact and any adverse side effects. And, last of all, I would like to welcome from the Enhedslisten and inform you that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312123412	Thank you. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312123427	Thank you for the floor. It's hard this is very difficult. We need to implement an EU directive on unfair commercial practices, which, after all, sounds a little lenient, but it is not. Because in our opinion, there must be freedom of agreement. Politicians should not interfere unnecessarily in trade between two parties. We should have confidence in them to find out for ourselves. The question is whether it is fair and fair to prioritize one party or whether it is fair and fair to not do so. At the same time, it is proposed to overimplement the directive so that the new rules apply in all transactions between the companies in the supply chain, regardless of the company's turnover and relative negotiating power, with some exceptions, for example. the rules on maximum payment deadlines. Here you can legally purchase 60 days of payment time with suppliers who convert more than 300 million annually. euro. There is also still the possibility for the parties to conclude agreements and to avail themselves of credit facilities. That's all I needed. Overimplementation at all is rarely good. But here the rules are made more similar for everyone instead of making special rules for some, but not for others. The question then is whether this is the way to make competitive. On the one hand, there are the small suppliers who are pressed and crushed by the large chains. It is often heard that large companies use small and medium-sized suppliers as banks. On the other hand, you can say "no" nicely. And you're gonna have to be naive if you think the chains aren't going to get hit hard on liquidity with this bill. That is why, of course, the fronts have been pulled up hard, and we see that clearly in the consultation answers. I have held several meetings, I have read, assessed and reversed it with my parliamentary group, and the honest answer is that we are in doubt. We are not opposed to the balance that we recognise as being sought in the draft law. And I hope that the work of the committee can make us clearer, and no matter what, we have some questions, among others. on the relationship between shareholders and cooperatives, which we do not think is relevant to this directive in any way whatsoever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312123629	Thank you. There are no new citizens' or Liberal Alliance protests. That's why it's the Minister of Business now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312123645	Thank you for that and thank you for your comments on a rather complex legislative proposal. I think we've all testified in the process that it is. The overall aim of the draft law, as several have said, is to implement this directive on unfair commercial practices in relations between companies in the agricultural and food supply chain in Danish law. The main purpose of the directive itself is to protect small suppliers by prohibiting specific types of commercial practices in trade with larger buyers. The bill itself then introduces a ban on specific commercial practices by a buyer vis-à-vis a supplier. The draft law extends the protection provided by the directive, so that the rules must apply in all trade between undertakings in the agricultural and food supply chain, irrespective of the turnover of undertakings and relative strength of each other. This is happening, among other things. to reduce the ongoing administrative burden on business and to create a level playing field across the sector. However, the draft law also has exceptions to the principle that the rules should apply to everyone as regards the rules on maximum payment deadlines. For the large suppliers with over 350 million. A maximum payment period of 60 days applies only to the euro in circulation and the very small buyers with less than 2 million. The euro is exempted from the rules on payment deadlines. The draft law appoints the Competition and Consumer Authority as enforcement authority. The Danish Competition and Consumer Protection Agency will have to be involved, among other things: carry out investigations on its own initiative or on the basis of a complaint and take a decision. The Competition and Consumer Authority must then exercise its powers under the law, and they do so in full independence. The public consultation has shown that there are differences of opinion on the directive and the draft law on the supplier side and on the buyer side respectively. Industry has differing views on the choice of implementation model, and therefore, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen also very, very rightly highlights, this bill is, to the extent possible, an expression of finding a balance and of making a compromise. This is evident from the fact that the rules are extended to all suppliers, while at the same time these exceptions are introduced in respect of payment periods for certain suppliers. Following the consultation on the draft law, the draft law has been amended so that some of the criticisms have been met. For example: the law applicable has been clarified and a specific level of fines has also been introduced for infringement of the bill's prohibition provisions. So I look forward to a thorough examination of the committee and understand perfectly well that we need it on such a complicated and compromise legislative proposal as this is about. I listened to a request for a technical review, and if there is a general desire for a technical review, we in the Ministry of Industry would be happy to take the initiative. There we can also go into what the Radical Left is asking about in relation to the specific enforcement of the bill. Compared to what Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen points out in his speech that we need to evaluate the bill along the way, I would say that there is a proposal for an evaluation after 3 years, but there will be an ongoing monitoring of how the bill is implemented and being applied, which we will implement together with the organisations, so that we can also take things in the run-up. But we can also discuss further in the committee work whether that cut has been made precisely. In relation to the comments made by the Danish People's Party, I would like to say, and this is not the way we are going to deal with specific companies, but now two specific points were mentioned in the same sector, that I am not sure that we have read the draft law in exactly the same way, but we can also bore that out in the committee work. If you take this group as an example here, they will have to have their money in accordance with these rules within 30 days, while Arla would have to wait 60 days, and I hope that can be a welcome to the Danish People's Party. But let us get closer to that in the committee work. That is certainly an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312124114	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312124119	Thank you. I am well aware that there is the second payment deadline for suppliers with a turnover of less than 350 million. But the Minister's written submission also states that this is a matter of perishable food. I know that most of the dairy products are probably in the category of perishable foods, but I would just like the Minister to reflect on the fact that there are also foods which are not perishable, that is to say, consumer goods which have longer shelf life. It could, for example, be done. be marmalade or soda or other things. Where is the cut in relation to the concept of perishable food? Of course, I find that interesting to know, not least for those who then have to deliver it. Then, just to be sure, I would also ask the Minister to provide an answer to the second question I had about the concerns that have been raised about cooperative shareholders. I know that there has been a hearing answer, but we would also like an answer here in connection with the legislative work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312124227	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312124228	Thank you. It was my attempt to illustrate that the unequal conditions were in favour of the smaller party in relation to payment deadlines. I think the safest and wisest thing is for us in committee to come closer to the definition of when something is perishable and when it is not, for example. jam for milk. We can do it more generally. Then I would say that I understand very well the concerns that may be in relation to our cooperative model, because it is an honorable model that we can be proud of in Denmark. Yesterday we had the debate on democratic forms of ownership within our industrial structure, where the cooperative movement is one of the places of thought. That is why we have a common interest in this being thoroughly clarified, and of course we are making ourselves available to do so in the committee's work. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312124324	Sir. His Kristian Skibby? No. Then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312124340	The debate is open. Minister for Children and Education, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312124413	Thank you. I have such a feeling that if this were not a citizen's proposal, it would probably have been withdrawn before the session in the Assembly, as there is of course I may be wrong, but the proposal has perhaps ended up being a little out of date since it was put forward. Nevertheless, at the time it was put forward it was a good and quite relevant matter, because we are in a very difficult situation of decommissioning and emergency education, and we cannot escape the fact that the pupils have lost much both socially and professionally for a large part. We must, of course, mitigate this as much as possible, and that is basically what the citizens' proposal is about: taking professional and social considerations into account for future students. Of course, the government agrees that this should be taken into account, but we do not think it is appropriate to cancel all exams. It may solve something, but you just have to be aware that it creates some new challenges. I have spent a great many hours discussing the issue of exams, both last spring, during the autumn and, of course, in connection with the agreement reached with the Danish Parliament's parties. I have spent a lot of time discussing this with the teachers and with the pupils' organisations, and this is an enormously complex issue because there are many considerations to take into account. On the one hand, there are a great many students who feel pressured because they are going to the exam after they have not had regular education, and for some it seems to be a serious distrust. On the other hand, there are a great many students who are motivated by going to the exam. They're making something extra out of the assignments. They participate more actively on Teams during the day because they know they are going up to the exam. This means that their commitment and well-being are at stake if the exams are cancelled. The students also have expectations of the academic evaluation. This means that if we cancel the exams, the students are assessed in a different way than the one they thought they would be judged on when they started high school, and it is quite different whether the courses are suitable for online teaching. In particular, it is difficult with the physical subjects, the creative subjects and the subjects where you need a laboratory and the like, while it is better possible to have lessons in other subjects online. We cannot cut all subjects together when we have to assess what the students have learned and thus how we can test them in a relevant way. After all, the students simply need practice in going to the exam, an exercise that many people need in their further education, and that is why I see it as a great loss that, in the course of last year's decommissioning, we had to cancel the examinations. Of course, this must be avoided as far as possible. On the other hand, there is the situation that the more exams we carry out, the less time there is for extra teaching of the students, because they will then have to have a study vacation. The students have lost very much normal education, and therefore every day or week in the schools counts in relation to giving them the skills they need in their further education and working life. In other words, we are talking about an enormously complex issue, and there is no perfect solution to it here, because incredibly many seriously opposed challenges need to be taken into account, and so it will inevitably be the case that there will be some who think that the compromise has landed somewhere other than where they would have liked to have seen that country. But the government, together with a very broad majority of the parliamentary parties, has tried to find the right balance. In February, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance agreed on how tests and exams should be handled for the rest of the school year. I think it is important to bear in mind that it is so broad a political agreement, because we in the Folketing, in normal circumstances, have very different views on the examination. So, we simply have different attitudes to the exam and how valuable it is. That is why I think it is a point in itself that the different views on the question of exams have been represented in the space where an agreement has been reached and the compromises that were required have been made. What we have ended up with is that in the upper secondary educations the students in the first and second g will have one exam, while the students in the first hf will have two exams and the third g's and the second hf's will have four exams. Normally, the 3rd and 2nd hfs typically have to be approximately seven or eight to nine examinations. In other words, B 138, which we are dealing with here, has been partially met with the political agreement on the handling of tests, as the students in 3rd and 2nd hf have to do much less tests than usual. After all, the government cannot support the second part of the proposal that it should not be possible for high school students to come to degrees in B and C level subjects. It is not part of the broad political agreement that we have reached, but the agreement is linked in such a way that it is the clear starting point that the students in 3rd g will primarily have to undergo tests in their A-level subjects. The students in 3rd g are going to an oral examination in their study orientation project or field project and in writing Danish, which is an A-level subject. In addition, they are required for two oral tests in their study orientation subjects, which may be both A and B level subjects. In addition, there is an incredibly important part of this agreement that has not yet been fully reached in all classrooms, and that is why I think it is important to make it clear from this platform that it is possible to take into account the virtual nature of much of the curriculum during the exams this year. For example, schools are given the opportunity to ignore certain parts of the education which have taken place as emergency education in the preparation of oral examination questions. I'm just gonna try to exemplify that. It is the case that, for example, if you do not have the right to vote in local elections, you do not have the right to vote in local elections. normally should do ten exam questions and the teacher knows that in three of the ten exam questions the subjects they cover have only been dealt with online and that the online teaching has not been good enough to think that it is okay to examine the young people in it, then one can choose to take out the three questions so that the students alone can withdraw one of the seven remaining questions, all of which have been physical teaching. So when people have asked me how we take account of the fact that in one part of the country you do one thing, and in the other part of the country the other, in relation to how much you have been shut down, I have said that it is precisely by going in to the oral exams to adjust how many different subjects are being examined. But by the agreement, we at least mean by the government that we have found the right balance, and we are extremely grateful that we live in a society where, at such a difficult time, it is possible to create such broad agreements on something as difficult and complex as this. This year students will have to worry about fewer exams than usual, and they will have more time for teaching than usual. It will therefore be possible to make up for some of the professional and social gap, and hopefully this means that the seniors will also have a good end to their high school period, just as it will hopefully be for the graduation students in primary school. They need it on top of a hard year, and so we all need the happy students and graduates to give some hope for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312125201	Thank you. And then we go to the rapporteur's line. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312125227	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing the citizens' proposal to ensure a good end to a school year, which has been anything but normal. There has been uncertainty throughout society, but of course there has also been uncertainty, whether you, like those who have tabled this proposal, have to complete the 3rd g, or you have to complete the primary school, up to trial or what to do. There has been a great deal of uncertainty as to when to go back to school, whether you had some professional gaps, how to do, and, of course, what the exams would look like. And, of course, for the Social Democrats, it is important that we take account of that uncertainty and that we conform to it, and indeed we believe that we have done so with the agreement mentioned by the Minister, which has been reached with a broad majority of the parties of the Danish Parliament, and which ensures that we do not run the exams as normal, but have fewer exams, so that we can focus, so that we know where to prioritise our powers and so that we take into account the fact that we have of course had a very special school year. In addition to the exam agreement, we have also reached an agreement on how to pick up the professional backlog and how to ensure better well-being and all of this, of course, is done together with a framework that ensures that there are hat events and that it is celebrated when there is a swing test, even if the parties may be different than they used to be, and I think that is really, really important. There are no perfect solutions in a pandemic, but I believe that both the agreements on well-being and professional delays and the agreement on the exam mean that, despite an uncertain year, we can face the young students and say: We have actually heard your need for clarification, and we have weighed and made a model that we think is the right one. We do not support the citizens' proposal because in some quite specific areas it is contrary to the agreement we have made. On the other hand, I would also think that if it had been a party in this Parliament that had tabled the proposal, it would probably have taken stock of the agreement that had been reached. In fact, I believe that we can say with great fairness that the intentions contained in the citizens' proposal have been met with the agreement we made in February. So the job is done, but we do not support the citizens' proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312125456	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to Mr. Stén Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312125517	Thank you for that, President, thank you for the floor, and I would also like to thank Rosa Amalie Leibowitz Reffstrup, who is the main leader of the proposal here and is with a number of fellow-citizens. The proposal has, of course, brought together enough support for us to deal with their proposals today. I really think it's pretty beautiful that our democracy works this way when you see how quickly we can get a citizen's proposal to be considered here in the Folketing. At least I'll sign for that. We in the Left fully understand the proposal. We fully understand the frustration experienced by many pupils and, as such, still experience away, thereby making the proposal here. Both the insecurity and the insecurity of not knowing whether you are going to the exam this summer or not have been great, it bears witness to the citizens' proposal and the support that has been there, the whether or not you should be celebrated and whether you could do it with a hat. That is why it has also been important for the Left to get clarification immediately into the new year, to get an agreement that would provide security for summer examinations, so that students among other things. at the high schools could get a good end to their three-year programme. In the new year, we started an agreement to provide this security and security, and we reached an agreement, which several people have mentioned, on 5 February. Thank you for the process; I thought it was good. We heard the stakeholders, and I also think that we have reached an agreement which, at many stages, reflects the citizens' proposal that is here today. Both last summer and towards Christmas and New Year, we have had a great deal of political focus on admissions and tests, and it has been important for the Left that the young people should go to this test and have a hat, so we got the old culture as close as possible as it can now be done and do as we usually do, that is to say to get a good end to a 3-year course. In fact, we believe that this is a very important event for young people, even more because of the corona and perhaps even more because of the virtual education that has taken place and also because of the lack of friends. So from here I wish all the young people the best exam when they get there and the best summer with the hope that all young people who finish their youth education will get a really good conclusion under the conditions we now have. With the conclusion of the agreement on 5 February and with these words, I can say on behalf of the Left that we cannot support this very sympathetic and good proposal. In the same way, I should like to welcome Conservatives and say that they cannot support the proposal here either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312125804	Thank you. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312125820	Thank you. It was said by two of the rapporteurs that this resolution would probably have been withdrawn if it had been tabled by some of us sitting in this Chamber. I think that's right. That is not possible when it is a citizen's proposal, obviously, but it has actually become completely out of date, because an agreement has been reached, and I personally believe that this agreement brings the end of the Third Gs as good as it can now be done on the basis of the very unusual time that we have been through in the last year. Firstly, it is not at all a good idea to cancel as many exams as possible. Although an individual may at first be afraid of the exam, it is almost always a good idea to overcome his anxiety and take that exam. You get something out of it personally, and you get something out of it professionally. So for that reason alone, you have to be careful not to cancel exams. In addition, a good deal has actually been made, which we in the Danish People's Party are also in and can vouch for, that students are going to as many exams as possible. Wherever it's possible, they're actually gonna have to graduate. Fortunately, it has become more exams than last year, and this is due to the fact that one has simply become better at teaching the strange Corona way to which one has been referred for so long. As has already been said, the 3rd g's are going to four exams, usually for seven exams, and at the same time some special consideration has been given to the material in which they can come up, so that parts of the curriculum can be taken out if they have not been properly examined, i.e. they take it out as examination questions. I think that is a good solution. B and C subjects are present, but not all, especially if they are practical. As I said, it is a fine agreement that we have reached, and it means that this motion for a resolution is simply not relevant anymore because some of it has come before the motion for a resolution. I do not even know whether it was made before the agreement was concluded, but at least that is no longer the case. And I think that the 3rd G's are actually getting as good an end as it is now possible to get on the basis of this strange coronatide that we've been through. However, on the basis of what I have explained here, the Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130106	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130110	I would like to say that it is not all of us who would have preferred to withdraw this citizen's proposal from the young people in the Alternative, we would probably have liked to have retained it and then reinforced it. In other words, we do not believe that there is any reason to bring young people up to all the exams for which they have not had the opportunity to prepare properly. We see that the young people reach out and say: instead of sitting and studying for exams, we would rather learn something. So does the Danish People's Party not recognise that the young people could actually have learned more by going to school instead of sitting and reading up for exams in which they risk getting a worse grade than they would have gotten normally?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130154	No, actually, I don't. Now, I am a high school teacher myself, and I have experience of the fact that precisely the setting of a certain goal, as an exam is, provides an incredibly targeted learning, so that means that what they are doing now is precisely that they learn much more than they would probably have done otherwise, if it had been normal teaching, where the goal had been removed, that is, where the goal of the exam had been removed. So I am actually convinced that students get more out of virtual education and from the exam reading they have up to the exam than they would have received if the exam had been replaced with ordinary rye bread education without the exam.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130243	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130244	The rapporteur does not at all recognize all the young people who have signed this citizens' proposal, who believe the opposite, who believe that in the way they have been taught they are not qualified to go up to those exams and who, in the midst of this great distrust which is now among the young people, are now 25 per cent. More people who seek psychological help because of anxiety are really affected? Does the rapporteur not recognise that it can actually cause further dissatisfaction to have to go up to exams for which one does not feel prepared?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130318	I recognise all those who have made this resolution and all other high school students as people and as children who do not have full insight into or full knowledge of what life offers. We as adults and I as a teacher must say to them: You may be scared right now, and it may seem incalculable, but if you pull yourselves together and try to get through this, you will be more grown up and know more on the other side. We should not give in just when people are sinking into anxiety and depression... then we should give them a life-saving wreath. And it's actually a lifesaver to say, we believe that you can handle it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130401	Thank you to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. If the rapporteur wants to prepare for the next rapporteur, that would be very good. The next rapporteur is clear, and that is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130425	Thank you. It is, after all, a rather strange situation to stand here, following the agreement that many rapporteurs have already mentioned. But I really think I would like to start by saying a thousand thanks to all the many, many young people who signed this citizens' proposal when it came out around Christmas. It created a huge debate and got things moving a little bit, I think I'll say. And that was needed, so it's really good. I would also like to stress that when I have talked to these young people, it doesn't seem to be because they are afraid of going to the exam or being afraid of being a student; it's more the fact that they would like to have some more teaching time, and they can have it if you cancel some exams and that it has been a strange course for them and they would therefore like to be sure that they can prepare enough for what they are going to get into. And you can do that by ensuring that there are fewer exams. It's just to make it clear that I don't think this is about a general exam anxiety. We were very much in agreement with the citizens' proposal when it came out, and we also said that we would have liked to have reduced the number of exams, so it was equivalent to last year, and we are therefore very pleased that an agreement was reached which I think is very good. Unfortunately, it has one more exam for the 3rd g and one more exam for the 1st and 2nd g than last year. On the other hand, they are oral, which means that local considerations can be taken into account, as the Minister has already explained. One can take into account the course one has had virtually, and I think it is very strong that one can do that. In the written exams you cannot do so in the same way. We would have liked to have had a little fewer exams than there are in this agreement, but having said that, I also think it is extremely important that you have a hat exam as a third g that you can go up to. And it is also my impression that the proposers think so. So I actually think that we have done a very good job with this agreement, both because we have significantly reduced the amount of exams and because we have ensured that we can take account of examination issues in relation to what we have had locally virtually. I think that's really strong. So the SF is not voting for this resolution because we have made this agreement, which I think is very good, and which I also understand from the students that they seem to have met their wishes. But we're really glad that this citizen's proposal was brought to our attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130707	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130711	I do not quite understand how the rapporteur can say that 50,000 young people, or at least 50,000 signatories, feel that their wishes have been met when what has been done does not meet the citizens' proposal. In other words, the citizen's proposal would go further; it would, as the rapporteur knows. The students reach out a hand and say: We want to learn something more instead of going up to examinations for which we do not feel prepared. Does the rapporteur not recognise that the legislation that the rapporteur is helping to make does not comply with this citizens' proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130757	In other words, the agreement we have made is not the same as the citizens' proposal, because we have become wiser in relation to last year's agreements and the citizens' proposal is a proposal that it should be as it was last year. I'm not saying I know what 50,000 young people think. I have talked to some of those who have tabled the proposal; my own sister has signed it, she is also in the 3rd g, and she feels very satisfied with it here. But so, my impression is that one really appreciates this agreement and that there is one more exam for the 3rd Gs is true, and we are also sorry about that in the SF, we would have liked it to be the same as last year, but the oral ones are, which means that one can take local account of what one has had virtually, and I think that is quite good. And then I would say that there is still the possibility of getting some more education because a number of examinations have been cancelled, and that was also one of the great reasons why we thought this was a very good idea. So no, I don't know what 50,000 young people think, but my clear impression is that you think this is a good deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130853	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130855	Does the rapporteur recognise that by not supporting this citizens' proposal and by supporting the proposal submitted by the government and endorsed by the SF, further unnecessary pressure is being put on some young people in a situation where they are already under enormous pressure due to the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312130917	Well, I also think that some of the pressure that young people are experiencing is due to uncertainty, and I am so proud that in this process we had a broad agreement with the parties of the Folketing that there should be no uncertainty. Now they know what to do, and these are the four exams, in the SF we would have liked to see, it was three, in turn they are oral, and their teachers can take local account of the courses they have had virtually. I think that is so strong, and I think that we should talk about it much more, that there is that possibility, because I hope that this will also reduce the distrust. Because we think that is a huge problem too. But I hear a broad circle of young people who are really happy about this deal and really happy to have been assured as quickly as they got, already there in February.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131002	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131022	Thank you very much for the floor. In fact, I would also like to start by making a huge thank you to all of you who have signed this citizens' proposal. Thank you for your enormous commitment to your education, and thank you very much for your community commitment by signing a citizens' proposal. It's still a very, very hard time for a lot of people. The Corona is still raging. It's hard to be young and have been at home for such a long time during your youth education, and so I can fully understand all the intentions behind this citizens' proposal. And I also want you all to have a really good end to the third g, because you really, really did it well. The Radical Left is also included in the agreement on the examination and completion of all our youth education students. We're really happy about that. In fact, I think that I would like to put a little emphasis on some of what Mrs Carøe also said when she was asked about it, namely that we have created some certainty. Knowledge of what to look into provides clarity as to how to look forward for the next 4-5 months and how to expect to finish your time in high school. There is such a low-practical thing in that a lot of people are really happy to know that they can be allowed to come up for a final exam and get a hat on. And I'm really happy about that, because I really hope that we can give them a good end to their youth education: that you can get a hat on your head and come out and party with your friends. I believe that with the agreement we have made, we have both created clarity and, in fact, also found a fine balance in this Parliament by ensuring that you get up to the exam and get the conclusion that many would like, and that extra time is also created for teaching. Because it is not the same thing that we do not imagine, at least not in the Radical Left, to get lessons behind a computer screen, as it is to show up at your high school. So, of course, we support the agreement we have made, and that is why we cannot vote in favour of this citizens' proposal. But once again, I just want to express my greatest respect for all of you who have signed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131311	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131314	I think it is a little strange to stand by and thank the proposers so strongly and show such understanding and then not deliver, i.e. do not live up to what the proposal says. When it comes to certainty, isn't it actually the case that that certainty wasn't really created? As far as I understand, there are some who do not come up in only A subjects, that is to say we are talking about upper secondary education, and that means that they can actually risk getting into a B subject and a C subject. That actually means that the certainty, as far as I am informed, has not been created. They haven't been able to know what to do, because if they don't do two A subjects, the curriculum is suddenly open, except for sports.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131403	No, that is, you can draw a course, and as a starting point it is important that you get up in some of the subjects you have had for a long time, but it is true that we have also opened up to you, for example. can get up in math too and that kind of thing. We would just like to make sure that people can get up in the subjects they have had in high school, and it is quite right that some consideration has been taken into account, including in relation to, for example. The 1st and 2nd gs, that is to say they are actually allowed to try to get up to the exam. I am not quite sure that I know just where it is that the questioners are actually going to apologize.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131448	Either way, these exams are relatively unnecessary. We did fine last year without them. Young people are in an extremely stressful situation. 25% multiple contacts psychologists due to anxiety. I mean, they're stuck with their nail tips. Why is it that, in this situation, the Radical Left will give them more exams than is necessary when it is actually possible to use the position character?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131524	So, I am sorry, but I simply believe that the rapporteur of the alternative is completely absent, and that really is not to be disrespectful. I really agree with what the SF rapporteur said earlier. The fact that we have actually created some certainty about what they can see into is absolutely crucial. And I'm really glad we've been able to do a lot of things here in the Folketing. That's exactly what they need. I'm really proud we're behind this. And then I'm very clear that we're discussing the well-being of young people. I hope that the alternative will be a part of that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131602	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312131626	In Enhedslisten we think it is a good citizen's proposal, which Rosa Amalie Leibowitz Reffstrup and six other high school students and 50,000 young people have also got the Danish Parliament to deal with. In the Enhedslisten we fully understand the great concern among high school students, and indeed among a great many other pupils, about how they will be judged for a year when the educational institutions have been shut down for periods of physical presence. We have no doubt that teachers have done and continue to do their utmost to ensure the best possible training during decommissioning, but we do not escape the fact that decommissioning has had serious consequences for the learning and well-being of many learners. It is more than difficult to maintain motivation when one is cut off day after day from the association and the collaboration with the other students and only meets his teachers on the screen. The many negative consequences of the decommissioning in spring and summer 2020 are clearly documented in the reports prepared by the Danish Evaluation Institute. The long run has obviously meant that both teachers and students have in the meantime become much more skilled at handling digital teaching. On the other hand, I do not think there is any doubt that the fact that many students are now experiencing their second shutdown has worked hard on the motivation of the students. All in all, therefore, it is very reasonable that the proposers of the motion for a resolution a few months ago, just before we reached an agreement in the Folketing, proposed to cut down sharply on the exams of the year in the third g, and there has also been a broad consensus on this, between the parties of the Folketing. Had it been up to Enhedslisten, the students on Stx alone would have come up in defence of the great written task, that is, the SRP, but we actually think it is an acceptable compromise that we have reached the parties between here at the beginning of February. This is very close to the citizens' proposal that has been put forward in this Chamber, and I think, as several colleagues have said, that we are, in fact, very much in line with the wishes contained in the citizens' proposal. Unfortunately, since the agreement was concluded, it has not yet been possible to get the students back fully to high schools. With the latest political agreement made earlier this week, we have, fortunately, taken another step in the right direction, but unfortunately there is still a long way to normalisation and I have no doubt that we will be able to feel the aftermath of decommissioning for a very long time to come. That is why, in our view, it will be necessary in the coming period for us to support the colleges and other educational institutions with one or more aid packages that not only address the acute challenges they face in the run-up to the summer holidays, but also ensure that there will be additional resources and more freedom to deal with the problems caused by the closure of the corona. I hope we are about to negotiate this, but back to the citizens' proposal. It is our view that the proposal is positive, but it is in fact also our view that, with the agreement made in the Folketing, we are largely fulfilling the wishes expressed in the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132020	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132025	I very much agree with Enhedslisten that it could have been even better, and I am also sure that Enhedslisten has fought for it. There are a little more parties who would actually have liked more exams to have been cancelled, so it could have been nice if we had also succeeded in getting through the negotiations. But is it not true in the context of the agreement that the rapporteur helped to make that, if you do not draw both of your A subjects, you run the risk of getting up in your B subjects and your C subjects? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132055	The agreement is in such a way that you have to get up in the oral defence of the SRP, that you have to get up in writing Danish, and then you have to get up in two oral tests in study orientation subjects or other A-level subjects. One might ask whether it is a technical detail if there are now students who have B courses as courses of study or whether it is a real problem. I mean, I actually see that we are responding to the proposal that lies at the heart of the matter. When we talk about the field of study, I think it is fair and proper to say that the agreement has responded to the wish behind the citizens' proposers' proposals. You can always discuss that is the difficult part of the citizen's proposal ^ what was thought when the proposal was put forward, and I think that is fair enough, so I would not argue that my interpretation is identical to that of any proposer. In fact, however, I think that our agreement is fair and proper and reflects the wish expressed by the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132202	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132204	What I am asking out of sincere curiosity to try to find out how it is and which I find difficult to understand completely is: If you do not get into two A subjects, i.e. if you only pull one of the two, does it not open up an opportunity for you to get up into a B subject or a C subject instead of one of them? Well, it's just a question, because if it does, I guess the students have to prepare for a more broad curriculum. It is a sincere attempt to find out how the agreement that has been made is connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132239	But the agreement, as I mentioned, is that it is a subject of study orientation, and that is why it is the subjects that young people have dealt with throughout the course of high school. And it is true that there are courses of study where there are individual B subjects; this is quite unusual, since the vast majority of young people choose A subjects as courses of study. So, yes, it can be said that one by one does not correspond to the citizens' proposal, but I do believe that we can say in all fairness that it complies with the intention that lies with the citizens' proposal. However, as I have said, the nature of the citizen's proposal is such that we find it difficult to ask the authors whether they feel that they are satisfied. I can only say for Enhedslisten that we think that the agreement that has been made is in order and that it is, moreover, a compromise between many different points of view and the fact that Enhedslisten has drawn in the direction of fewer exams, we ourselves have borne fruit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132342	Then a brief comment was made to the rapporteur. This is from Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132347	I therefore needed to know whether the rapporteur, like all the other rapporteurs in this House, could not confirm that, according to last year's agreement, the 3rd G's were going to three exams, and with the agreement this year they are going to four, and that the citizens' proposal suggests that it should be as last year. So it's one exam more than last year. It was really just that, and then I'm gonna sign that Enhedslisten, like SF, has been fighting for fewer exams in this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132418-2	I can confirm the questioner's interpretation and also what the questioner said in his rapporteur's speech: there are several oral exams here. That is why I think we can say that we are living up to the intention of the proposal with the agreement that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132438	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Thank you for just getting ready for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132458	Oh the beautiful young people/suddenly they have run off/as playful butterflies/the very first summer day/what they want with life/it can only they themselves understand/oh the beautiful young people/gid they long live may ~. Summertime is time for happy young people who finish an important chapter in their lives to jump into adult life without parachute, but with joy, courage, pride, happiness and faith in life. There is almost nothing more life-affirming than seeing happy students and student cars in the city picture. I graduated in 2001, but I remember it as it was yesterday, despite the alcohol mists, which are also part of it. I remember the feeling of happiness, the belief in the future, the celebration with the comrades, the sunrise at Hornbæk Strand after the student drive, euphoric naked bathing in cool water, sand between the toes, bonfires on the beach and a lot of lukewarm beers. This year's students will experience this as well. They must experience the sense of happiness it gives to jump into life without parachute. They must experience the community. They must experience the euphoria that it gives when you together drive around in a student car and watch childhood slip by and fall behind, as adult life peeps on the horizon. They deserve it especially after a difficult year of uncertainty, insecurity, deprivation and loneliness. Oh, how you deserve it, dear future students. Oh, you beautiful young people, suddenly you've run away like playful butterflies on the very first summer day. What you want with life, only you can understand that. Oh, you beautiful young people, please long live!
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132710	Thank you to the rapporteur. It makes you want to sing, but we have to wait for that. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur, and if the rapporteur would be kind enough to prepare for the next rapporteur, that is fine. I do not see the Liberal Alliance rapporteur in the Chamber. On the other hand, I can see the rapporteur for the alternative, and that is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312132749	Thank you. In the alternative, we would have liked to have dropped all unnecessary exams. In fact, we had a motion for a resolution in which, for example, we had a motion for a resolution. In the case of upper secondary education, only SOP and SRP were required. We chose to draw that, because it would be a little strange to have to stand here first and take the debate on a citizen's proposal that has been partially complied with and then discuss it all again afterwards. But that is also why I am taking the opportunity to say that we would actually like to go further and that we would like to write an amendment to the citizens' proposal to do so. We are also a little concerned about vocational training, i.e. that they have to go to exams, because it is very much there that you build things in reality, which is difficult to comply with at home in the living room. It is clear that we all know very well that young people are hit hard at the moment by the corona crisis. Actually, I didn't think in my life I'd hear young people begging to come back to school, but that's what's actually happening. I am not sure that it is a hundred percent what they want to get back to; they will of course also very much return to the comrades. But the policy of the alternative is that we would have liked to have seen all the unnecessary exams dropped, all the exams that were not strictly necessary also because we think that one learns more when it is the case that one gets teaching. That is also what I find young people saying: we would rather learn more, we would like to learn as much as possible, when we have now missed out on some of our learning, instead of sitting and reading up for exams, which are not a way of learning that is as good as learning together in an educational situation. So in the alternative, we're voting for this citizens' proposal, and we're thanking the 50,000 kids. We would have liked to have pushed the deal a little longer. We will vote for this and then we would have liked to push it even further by dropping the unnecessary exams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133014	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur from Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133019	When I gave my rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur asked whether I assumed that I knew what the young people wanted, and now I understand that the alternative wants to go further than what is proposed here and cancel all the exams, or what? And is that something that the rapporteur has heard that the young people want? Because that's not what I hear. I hear that they would like to be allowed to go to the exam and have it completed in a good way, both the students and those in vocational training. The rehearsal is just as important as the rehearsal. That's why I just want to know what kind of kids they are who want to cancel all their exams.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133103	It is a very great, strong and resounding desire from the youths of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133109	SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133110	Okay, and it's a big and resounding wish from the Danish High School Students Association to have a few exams, so that you get a good hat exam and a good student time. But it was good to hear what it was, just so that we don't get the 50,000 people who signed it for income, so that we don't want to go to the exam at all. But that's really just what I wanted to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133133	Well, what am I gonna say? None of us can raise 50,000 young people for anything. In the alternative, we think that what they wanted should have been delivered. For they reach out a hand and say: We would actually rather learn than we want to go to the exam. We could have delivered more on that, and we know that at least they want us to do so. Then it's just that I'm saying that when you stand there and thank them so much without delivering, there's a certain discrepan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133207	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. We are done with the rapporteur's series, but Mr. Sikandar Siddique has asked to speak as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133234	Thank you very much for the floor. Unfortunately, Uffe Elbæk is prevented from being here today, so I am standing here on behalf of the Free Greens. Free Greens support the citizens' proposal. We hear the young people, we see the young people, and we want to sign for the proposal. We believe that young people have shown a huge social spirit during this crisis, and when I think back to my years, I cannot help but regret how much young people have missed in terms of learning, in terms of social, in terms of having fun. So they have really, really demonstrated socialism, and therefore the Free Greens would like to accommodate them and support the proposal. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that we are hearing more and more stories about the party leader's debate yesterday, too, how many young people are feeling ill, who are miserable here during the Corona, and I hope that we will have it with us when we deal with matters relating to the young people, and that we are focusing on the future that we can get that well-being back with the young people. So Free Greens support the proposal 100% and thank young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133407	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210312133426	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 16 March 2021 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I would also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
