ParlaMint-DK_20210511130008	The meeting is open. As you know, this is the Question Time, which is why I would like to start by giving the floor to the Prime Minister for his opening remarks. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511130027	Thank you. The reopening of Denmark is going well, more than one in four Danes have now begun vaccination, and the infection is still under control. We are now all on our way out of the acute crisis, and now, of course, the goal is that Denmark should be fully and completely normalised again. While we are phasing out the restrictions and making the freedom of choice on vaccines work, we still need to exercise due care. The virus is still here, and so are the mutations, and that is why, as agreed with the parties behind the reopening agreement, the government will start work on developing a long-term strategy for the management of corona in the coming year. We still have to deal with the disease, and we must avoid new major closures of our society. Fortunately, we agree on this. It is time to look to the future, and it is also in other important policy areas. Right now, we are all negotiating a new infrastructure plan; we are going to start negotiations on phasing out aid packages and on a new summer and business package; we are going to put children first and ensure more security and better rights for vulnerable children; and soon we will also start negotiations on professional delays and well-being for students and students and on annual economic negotiations with both municipalities and regions. But it is something quite fifth that I want to talk about, namely the climate. Recently, we received the figures from the new climate projection and they show that, with the decisions we have taken and with the agricultural proposal being negotiated right now, we are already almost halfway to achieving the climate targets by 2030. A year ago, we needed to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by approx. 20 million We have reduced it to 10 million, and with the current agreements and the agricultural proposal, we have reduced it to 10 million. a. This has been quite well done, so it has been less than a year since a very broad majority in this House voted through the Climate Act. Last Friday, we handed a hand on a new ambitious 2025 sub-target, which means that we are setting up the green transition another gear. Thank you for a good cooperation to the SF, to the Radical Left and to the Enhedslisten and, incidentally, to all parties that are behind the many broad climate agreements we have concluded in recent years, and also a thank you to the Danish business community and to the trade union movement, which has contributed to the climate partnerships, and to all of you young people who have called out to us adults and demanded the necessary climate action. In a very short space of time, we have come a long way together, including strengthening our environment and biodiversity with 13 new national parks, more untouched forests, better conditions for animals and plants, and all of this is linked to the negotiations we have now started on agriculture. I hope here too that we can find each other in a broad political agreement where we will pave the way for the necessary climate reductions while at the same time ensuring the balance between the climate and the environment, the individual farmer and the business environment, so that in future Danish agriculture can also be allowed to be what they are, namely a green showcase for the rest of the world. I think that we in Denmark are in the process of showing that a green transition is not at the expense of jobs, is not at the expense of society's development, but that it is actually the opposite, and thank you for doing so. Thank you for the fact that with the green transition in Denmark we are now creating growth and local jobs. I hope that we will continue to do so together. The climate and the environment are one of the areas in which Denmark can make the absolute biggest difference in the world, and it really also gives us a special responsibility and I therefore also think that it is necessary to take the next steps, show due care in our future handling of the pandemic and with a necessary focus on all the opportunities we have, a more green, a fairer and a stronger Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511130437	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then we start the questioning round itself. As usual, there are only 2 minutes and then 2 times 1 minute. First, it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511130444	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Prime Minister. I really want to start with what the Prime Minister started with. We stood in here almost a month ago, when our good colleague Mr. Alex Vanopslagh asked the Prime Minister whether, when we come to the situation in which we have all been offered a vaccine, she would guarantee that all restrictions would be imposed, i.e. muzzles, coronapas and other things that we tolerate, but which are, of course, an interference with personal freedom and which are generally enslaved, and the Prime Minister replied a little weaverishly to that. So when I heard the Prime Minister's introduction, I was hoping that it was actually a clear answer to that. So I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to repeat what I thought I heard, namely that the Prime Minister can guarantee that when the last Dane has been offered a vaccine and we are on the other side of the pandemic, we will release all the internal restrictions that are on us, including muzzles, coronapas, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511130559	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511130601	There has been a misunderstanding which I would like to use my speaking time today to sneak into the ground, namely that I should wake up in the morning and look at Bo and say: Oh, how nice it is that there are restrictions in Denmark. I haven't said that to my husband once, and I'll never do it either. I am just as tired of the muzzle as I think most others are, and I look forward to the day when we can hug each other, perhaps even in here in the Assembly Hall, if we want to do it all in a way; it is in a proper way that we should hug where we are free of the restrictions and where we get a normal Denmark back. In fact, this is also the basis for the political agreement that we have made with each other, that the restrictions are becoming less and less and that we are moving towards a normal Denmark. What exactly it is going to look like, none of us know, but with the very, very high connection that is for the vaccine roll-out in Denmark, we expect to be able to achieve the flock immunity that is so crucial in relation to the further handling of the pandemic, and there I expect, of course, that there will be a need for as few restrictions as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511130710	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511130711	It started really promising and well and with some fine pictures, but that was a no. The Prime Minister simply will not guarantee that once the last Dane has been offered a vaccine, we shall no longer be subject to restrictions. I think that is a pity, because it must and must be the case in Denmark that when everyone has been offered the vaccine, the restrictions are gone. Then there is no need for a distance requirement, then there is no need for number requirements, then there is no need for coronapas, and then there is no need for muzzles. I think it is a pity that the Prime Minister will not give it a guarantee. Continuing a little in the same way, then is one of the things that is necessary in some places and enslaved elsewhere, the corona Pass. From the blue side of the hall, we have set out to introduce what you might call a driving licence model, where you should have your corona passport on you, and you have a personal responsibility to ensure that you have it, so that we do not put that responsibility on the piccolo in the cinema or the waiter in the restaurant. There is a majority in favour of this in the present Chamber. Is the Prime Minister backing up a driving licence model for the Corona Pass?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511130824	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511130826	Basically, I support the fact that we continue to keep the situation under control. It's pretty crazy. Now I myself have just attended a meeting of the European Council here the other day and seen how far we are in Denmark with the reopening compared to many other countries. The British are in a special situation because they have been able to vaccinate the population, but very many countries are still in the process of decommissioning, and many have also been hit by a hard third wave; the situation in India right now is a disaster for all of us. But here in Denmark we are in the process of a very, very large reopening, and we have even been able to move forward so that we can reopen more, and one of the reasons why we can do that is the corona Pass. The Danes allow themselves to be tested on a very, very large scale, which means that we have the situation under control. I feel the way I feel about the corona Pass, that for me it only has a connection with the pandemic. This is something we have put in place in order to open up our society and to avoid shutting down, as others have had to do, and that is why we must only use it for as long as it is necessary. But at the same time I must say that as far as I can hear and see, even in my own daily life, it actually works well out there, and it provides a security for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511130933	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, final question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511130936	That's not really what I asked, you might say. What I asked was whether the Prime Minister, like a majority in the Folketing, would introduce a driving licence model for the corona passport: yes or no? I admit that for us who are in here, that's not the big problem. We're just gonna go down to the basement and get tested. For ordinary Danes it is a problem to queue for an hour and a half, to have to travel half an hour and to have it renewed every three or every two days in order to live a normal life. This is a problem. Well, we have to take those challenges seriously, even if we do not get hit by them ourselves • Perhaps especially when we are not hit by them themselves. So will the Prime Minister abide by a majority in the Folketing and introduce a driving licence model for the corona passport: yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131023	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131023-2	Well, we have an agreement that a political majority is behind when it comes to using coronapas. That agreement also means that we are constantly discussing how the corona passport should be adapted to the way the epidemic develops, and we are of course doing so in that circle. With all due respect, I think that the President of the Left is exaggerating the problems out there. Well, the Danes are pragmatic people. If the alternative to a coronapas is that we had continued the shutdown for a long time, then I think most people feel like going down and being tested. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. - (DA) This is a false premise. And I just want to say that we have one of the world's highest testing capabilities. We have a system out there that works, and we have thousands of people who go to work every day to make sure that this system actually works and provides security and keeps Denmark open. Sometimes I think that we politicians should be careful not to blow up problems that ordinary Danes do not actually experience, but where they make it work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131114	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. And after a bit of cleaning, it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131133	Thank you, President. It is true that, of course, some people live in such a more rural environment in Denmark, which has longer access to the test centre than those living in the larger cities. So there are probably some people who are experiencing things a little differently from what the Prime Minister just said. But that is not what I wanted to do with my speaking time. I believe that many of us will be infinitely sad when we see that there are people in our country who impose self-censorship because they are under threat, fear of violence, are afraid of the terror exercised by Islamist forces. Most recently, DR has been able to tell a story about someone they choose to call Charlotte. That's not her name in the real world, but they know her, of course. She must act anonymously because she is simply afraid. She is afraid because she has announced that in her teaching as a teacher she will show the Mohammed drawings, and this has led to such strong threats that the assessment has been that she should try to go underground and live more privately and quietly and thus impose self-censorship. What I would like to hear the Prime Minister's position on today is how in the world we can best deal with the growing self-censorship that is taking place. And here it is particularly serious when it comes to our educational environments. If teachers in the Danish primary, secondary and higher education schools do not feel free to draw in what they think is necessary in order to provide the pupils with what they have to do, then we really do have a problem in an otherwise free society. So what will the Prime Minister and what will the government take of initiatives to ensure that the people who help us teach the children feel free and can do what they must of course?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131321	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131323	Here we are dealing with something that is really important and that is a real problem. And when we talk about the violation of freedoms, Charlotte and everyone else deserve much more attention than the challenges of freedom that were just raised by the Left. For this is a real interference in freedom... a real interference in freedom! I'm not gonna pretend I have all the answers today. But what I want to say is that when we start censoring ourselves, it is a knee to all the wrong things, and it doesn't matter where the censorship is, whether it's in the column of the paper, whether it's in our speech, whether it's in the teacher's teaching, or whether it's in something fourth. All forms of censorship are deadly and against our democracy and against our Danish values. I am afraid that this is not only a question of the Muslim cartoons, because what I hear is that the censorship also has a hold on sex education, that is, that there are pupils and students who do not want to take part in sex education and who already indicate that they will not provide it on the day when they may be school teachers or educators. I'll be in touch, for example. Danish teachers, that the censorship has come into Danish teaching, that there are honorary novels and short stories that can no longer be used, for example. in high school because there are students who feel offended by nudity or scenes where sexual activities are involved. I'm hearing about the censorship of homosexuality, Jews and others, and that's not gonna work. As to how we can solve this, I do not dare to give all the answers, but I am absolutely convinced that if we do not find the answers together, we will compromise with some of the most important things in our society, namely freedom of expression, and we must not do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131507	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131509	I fully agree, and this also shows that we are faced with such a very broad-based problem in Danish society, which certainly also requires a number of different initiatives. But if we now start with the specific problem which has now again been raised, that is to say about the Mohammed drawings, which one as a teacher does not feel free to be able to include in the teaching, and if we now concentrate on it and look at how we can then solve the task and ensure that the teachers feel free to include the Mohammed drawings in the teaching, then it could be with the proposal we have from the Danish People's Party that it is simply included in the curriculum and that it is part of a duty for the teacher to show, among other things. The Mohammed drawings. Because that will mean that it is not the individual teacher that you can threaten not to, because you know that it is part of a duty in Danish society. What it seems to me is really about is how we can take the risk, the yoke, as much of the teacher's shoulders as possible and place on all of our shoulders, so we carry this as a community together instead of leaving it to the individual teacher to stand in this insecure situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131615	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131616	I understand the proposal and I do not wish to completely reject it either. I am fundamentally opposed to this, understood in the sense that I am fundamentally opposed to the need for us to be in charge of detail, just as I am actually opposed to us legislating on a handshake in the area of citizenship, but nevertheless believe that we should do so because I am so opposed to people coming here from outside, who do not want to shake hands with a mayor because she is a woman. That is why we need to legislate. I am also instinctively opposed to us having to sit and legislate on detailed issues in relation to education. On the other hand, I must also acknowledge completely openly and honestly that if we do not take action as a society, then we put the responsibility on the individual teacher's shoulder, and we could see yesterday on Denmark's Radio what the consequence is, namely that an ordinary teacher in Denmark must go underground, must hide away, in order to have stood up for what is the most natural thing in Denmark, namely freedom of expression. So we are dealing with a dilemma, and I am not ready to conclude on that. I think we need to have a conversation between the parties here about how we deal with it. We just need to know that the ghost is There is
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131727	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131729	I am also a fundamental supporter of freedom and also of organising teaching, as you think is right, and we train many talented teachers in our education sector precisely to take responsibility for how best to communicate to students. But this is really a matter of regard for the teachers, so that we ensure that the teacher is not in this very, very difficult situation, where, on the one hand, one has to weigh up the consideration for what one really thinks is right to teach the children in relation to the Muslim drawings that we are discussing here and, on the other hand, one has to face up to the fact that one can also risk some quite dramatic consequences. And what do you choose? Yes, you will probably choose not to do so, and if we are to resist it, we will sometimes have to take initiatives, as the Prime Minister has said, which may break a little with our normal way of dealing with it. So my last question to the Prime Minister is whether the government will see to it that discussions are called for, among other things. whether this is an opportunity we have to use, that is to say simply to write something into the curriculum and to make it a duty for the individual teacher to have a guarantee that the individual teacher is not left alone with this very, very big responsibility, to initiate such discussions so that we can put something into the world so that something actually happens in relation to this big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131841	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131842	Yes, I would like to take the initiative on that and I think we should look at it all around. 'Cause I'm gonna make it, for example. We hear from teachers that the abortion issue is somewhat neglected, because it can provoke some students who are opposed to free abortion, that honorary Danish writers, as I said before, who have been following us for decades, can no longer be used in high school because there are what some students call intense sex scenes, or that we are talking about sex outside of marriage or before marriage or other things, and it therefore had to provoke because of religion, so we are already out of a place where we must not be like society. Because we want a school and we want an education system where you read it all and where there are no Danish writers who are censored away, where there are no subjects that you cannot discuss because some have a religion where they interpret it in that direction, and then it has to hurt others in a teaching situation or themselves. So it can be said that this has happened, and we have a responsibility to put an end to that. So, yes, I would like to call for discussions on the broad censorship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511131948	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and after a little cleaning, we move on. I have to say that it is the case that the display over time does not work down there, but so far the two questioners have done it completely exemplary. I am sure future questioners will do the same. Otherwise, I'm gonna get up. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132008	It is important to remember where you come from, and we were carried in by the government, the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten at the last parliamentary election by the young climate activists and by all the Danes who wanted an ambitious green policy. That is why I would actually just like to start by thanking you for a very good cooperation to deliver in here and therefore also have an ambitious milestone in 2025. We jointly sent the hockey stick to the recycling site. It was necessary, and it requires that we now speed up, and here the SF is going to keep the government in its ears. It's not a surprise and we're going to do it every day. Nor is it a secret that I am also proud of how we have jointly handled corona. We've handled it wisely. When you look at the countries around us, they shut down and we open up. I know it's more fun for the media when you're pissed off and you find hair in the soup, but now I think that in a lot of years we'll look back on this time and clap each other on the shoulders and say: It really went quite well in Denmark. But that also requires that we stand together to get everyone out of Corona and out on the other side not just some, but all of them. And some of our proposals are under way, and today, among other things, we are going to have to deal with them. agree that 110 per cent of unemployment benefit in continuing training can be obtained up to and including 2022. That's really good. We will open up more, but we will also have to provide for the children who are. Many of the children are doing well, but there are also some who are miserable. There are some who are lonely and some of them come back in their class and feel like strangers because they are about to cultivate social skills. Here, too, we hear that the children and members seep from the various associations. That is why I think it is a pity that the government has not given priority to children and young people in its summer package. This is one of the things we are going to go to the negotiations with, and I really would also like to ask the Prime Minister whether the government, together with the SF, will help to ensure that all those children and young people can go to summer camp, that more children and young people can come back into society, and that we will, at all, have a breeding ground for the good children and young people's lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132214	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132216	Well, one should never be afraid to acknowledge one's mistakes or dare to step in where one has been persuaded. Social democracy did not go to elections on a 70-percent target by 2030. It is to the credit of you three parties that it is the basis of the understanding paper and subsequently for now 2 years of politics, and I just have to say thank you. I'm very grateful that you pushed us there. This makes us one of the most climate-ambitious countries in the world, and the rest of the world is looking to Denmark. It is your merit, by the way, along with all those who Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says helped to create the basis for the latest elections to be a climate choice. When I say in my introduction today that we are starting to be where we show that it is not at the expense of jobs and growth, it is also a concession, you might say, because that is some of the things I have been afraid of. In other words, I have sincerely been afraid that the climate ladder was so high that the lower steps began to break off, and you did not have that look in common for jobs, for balances, for country and city and for social cohesion, because then I think it is not worth going so high. I must also just say, now that we are starting to make up the results here after two years, that it has not been at the expense of everything that I also think should be the hallmark of Denmark. In fact, we have shown together that you can both. So far so good. Do we need a stronger child focus in the summer package? We would very much like to discuss this. I have no doubt that there are some children who need special help. In general, I would warn against us in here, and I am not hearing Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr doing that either, but I think that there has been a tendency to do so in the past, indicting all children and young people as victims of this pandemic, because I do not think that is right. On the contrary, I believe that we have seen a generation of children and young people who have risen up and taken responsibility for helping society through a crisis. You should put your back on that, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132412	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132414	I think there are many children and young people who feel that they have held for, but they are also looking forward to these times when they return to school. I met a number of people yesterday, who went down and patted me on my shoulder and said, "Thank you so much for helping to make our everyday life more normal." And that happens because we have actually looked after each other, and so have the young people. But another thing in relation to corona is the whole question of vaccines. It has to be said that we are facing some challenges, but one of the positive news I think has come is that the President of the United States has been out to say: let us now also look at this question of patents. And he has proposed the temporary lifting of patents through the WTO; there is a possibility of a so-called voucher. I saw that the Prime Minister was out to say that it was interesting and exciting, and then it was something the government wanted to look at. I would really like to ask whether the Prime Minister would be willing to refrain from saying that it is exciting and something you would like to look at to take an active part in the fight with the President of the United States, in other words to press the WTO to actually make this gap in patents so that we can really get the vaccines up and running so that we can all get closer to a normal life again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132521	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132522	Well, I feel quite basically that when an American President makes a proposal, I will always be accommodating as a starting point, and this is, of course, especially now that we see a United States that really steps on the global stage and takes a very, very great responsibility again in relation to the multilateral world community. In my view, the greatest challenge in the field of vaccine is the question of capacity and, in fact, neither the question of patents nor the issue of licences. We simply cannot produce enough vaccines in relation to what we need, and I am not sure that it is really the patents that will determine it; it is in my view that we will have built a completely banal number of vaccine factories so that more vaccines are produced. I believe that Europe must take the lead here. I welcome the work that the Commission has set in hand with Thierry Breton, in other words, where countries have now, as it were, gathered to ensure that capacity can be increased. And as the questioner knows, we also hope to be able to promote production in our own country from the Danish side. So, in my view, it is primarily a question of raising capacity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132630	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132632	I also hear that the Prime Minister has no problem with the Americans taking the lead, but I think we should take a more active part in the fight. I started out with a lot of praise for both the management of the climate area and for the management of the corona, but I will actually end with a song, not only to the Prime Minister and the government, but in fact also to the blue parties. There are 19 Danish children in two camps in Syria, and soon we will have to decide whether the children are going home. So we're talking about 19 Danish children. I know that many people would like to make this a foreign policy, but it is not. And yes, they shouldn't have gone at all. It's really stupid that they've gone; I'm in every possible way against them leaving, but I think we should really think a little bit about this and make it all about common sense and find a solution to this problem. The Kurds have asked us to take our own citizens home. We, and I do, insist that we send criminals home to their home countries, because Denmark would like to be able to do so, and of course we should also take our own citizens home. So again, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: can we not find a solution to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132744	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132747	I actually think we all really feel sorry for these kids and that everyone can see that this isn't a good place to grow up. That is also the reason why we are many parties who have agreed to set up a task force which will end its work next week to uncover what is possible to help children. In view of the fact that the task force has now completed its work, I would really like to wait for their recommendations before saying anything further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132818	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. After a little cleaning, it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511132837	Thank you, and thank you, by the way, for the receipt of the European traces of vaccines here. I have also called for this, and now I have heard a clear indication that the Danish effort must also be thought into a European track. Thank you. I was really happy about that. I also often hear the Prime Minister beating that we must invest our way out of the crisis. I really agree with that. However, I can only sometimes have a lot of doubts as to whether this is also true of the climate crisis, because there is a little less goodwill, I think, when it comes to investing. There are sometimes contradictions, and now I hear the Prime Minister actually coming here, that it may no longer be red or green, jobs or climate, car owners or climate, and sometimes it has also been set up as if it were welfare or climate, so my errand is actually to inspire to think a little new here, a little more both-and, because it may be, and we have proven it, both jobs and climate. It can also be both meat and plants and both agricultural jobs and CO2 Why do we not use the agricultural negotiations that are currently under way today to speed up growth and get, yes, plant jobs to germinate? Well, plant based can actually be as big as butter and bacon for Danish exports. There's gonna be a huge demand for it. It can provide new businesses, more jobs and the prosperity that must be what we need to invest in sustainable welfare: schools, children who thrive, care for the elderly and opportunities for more. We in the Radical Left have played out with investments of just over 4 billion. kr. in a more plant-based agriculture, and that is a bit from the government's ambitions. So my question is this: is the Prime Minister really ready to invest in the climate crisis as well and ready to invest not millions, but billions, it is a priority; I am part of that in a plant-based agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133054	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133056	Yes, I am, as a starting point, and I think it is true that Danish agriculture can so much and has such high credibility that there is also a great potential for Danish agriculture in relation to plant production. I also believe that it is true that there will be a great global demand for this, and that is why Danish agriculture can also just as well start moving that way. And that is one of the characteristics of Danish farmers, namely that they are good at sensing where there is a market, no matter what production there is, and I think it is true that part of the market will move in that direction. Does it require any investment? Yes, it will. The green transition does, and we must, of course, have the will to do so. It can then be said that when we sit at the table, and fortunately we do so together in the hope of reaching a broad agreement in this area, it is of course a priority, as with so much else, how much we want to spend here, in relation to what we would also like to spend money on other investments, for example in education, in research and in our welfare societies, which also require investment. We must then make these priorities together, but that is basically a positive commitment. I would just like to say in relation to vaccines that when I myself have been concerned to see whether we can support a vaccine production in Denmark in any way, and this market consultation has now started, it has never been in order to cover the Danish market, because we are simply too small a market for it to really be interesting, I believe. In fact, our objective has always been to ensure both security of supply at home and, if we can do so, to be a powerful engine, in terms of European supplies, neighbourhoods and, in other words, globally. Because we are only safe on the day that everyone on the planet has been given a vaccine, and there is still a long way to go, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133242	Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133243	I'm really happy to confirm that last one. I see only one way forward together with the European Union and Europe, so that this can be the great effort, including for Denmark. Some of what is important in relation to agriculture and the climate, and when you have to invest and also invest in the billions class and thanks for the commitment to at least look positively at it is after all visibility and pointers. In fact, we agreed when the government came to have a binding reduction target for agriculture. So should we not ensure that we give agriculture that visibility and get the binding reduction target in place now as part of the negotiations? Then we can also send much more investment after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133335	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133336	Well, we have always felt that we have a great deal of loyalty to the paper of understanding, and we are, moreover, well in the process of having together fulfilled quite a lot of things from the paper of understanding, fortunately, so it must of course be. There is therefore a definite reduction target for agriculture here, so we must, of course, deliver on that together. I think that we should talk about when we are going to set this precisely in the negotiations. Now we have a milestone for 2025, which is very ambitious. We have our good old 2030 targets, which are going out there, and then we are in the process of the agricultural negotiations, and it would be natural to look at how much it should then be reduced, also for the sake of the investments that agriculture needs to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133418	Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133420	Thank you. Speaking of the 2025 target we have just set, 50-54 per cent. This means that we must actually deliver those reductions, including here and now in the short term. So does the Prime Minister not agree that if there can be no ambitious agreement on agriculture, we will have to find reductions in other sectors by 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133453	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133454	Well, you could say that's simple mathematics. Because we have a 2025 target that we want to meet. However, the aim is surely to make an ambitious agricultural agreement on a long-term basis, so that each farmer knows what he has to do well and so that he can make the investments that are needed and, hopefully, in the spirit that we are also using the agricultural agreement to prove that there needs to be a contradiction between jobs and the climate. I think it is strong in this House almost two years into the parliamentary term that we must note that, although we have such high targets, perhaps because we have such high targets, we still manage to promote employment in this area. I think that is also what should be our guiding principle in relation to the agricultural negotiations. However, I believe that the objective is an ambitious agreement on agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133543	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Then it's Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133603	Nearly 60,000 children in Denmark grow up in poverty • almost 60,000. This is happening, among other things. because of the low services that the changing majority in here has decided that we should have in Denmark. These are families where the children sometimes freeze in the recess because they don't have enough heat for winter boots. These are families where the refrigerator is becoming increasingly empty, the longer you get to the month when birthdays and huts do not create enthusiasm, but worry because you cannot afford to do the same as your friends. It simply has huge consequences for those families, for those children and, in fact, for our entire society. Therefore there is no doubt in us in the Enhedslisten: We must therefore also simply get the coffee all wrong when I read an interview with the Minister for Employment in Jutland-Posten. For it could be read that he said that it was not a bottom-up task to do something about the benefit system. He simply did not think that it was a bottom-up task for a social democratic government to change the system that means that families live with poverty in Denmark, even though we have committed each other to it when the government joined, with an understanding paper in which it stands black and white. So my question is therefore today: does the Prime Minister not recognise that it would be a promise by the government not to deliver on making a proper grant agreement that reduces poverty in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133739	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133740	Thank you for that question too. I have no doubt that there are children in Denmark who grow up in families where the money is not enough. I am far from sure that this is primarily a benefit issue. I think it is just as much because of other challenges surrounding families, including debt. At least that's what often characterizes these families, and of course it also has to do with the length, i.e. how long you receive a transfer income. For a long time I have challenged the figure which is also being used as a basis for the issue here, because I do not actually recognise the unofficial way of doing this, which I think gives a false picture. So it's actually just to say that our starting point isn't necessarily exactly the same. I regard it as a bottom-up task to see whether we can create a system of benefits which is better than today and which addresses the various challenges that are, and indeed, it is, for example, that there are some children who cannot afford to go to leisure activities, but just as much so that for some people it is not worth working at all, and that is the most important thing when we talk about benefits, that is to ensure that people get to work. For a benefit, unless it is of a permanent nature, then it must act as a temporary activity until one gets to work and provides for oneself again. So our focus will always be primarily on getting people into work and not on increasing people's benefits. But there are some challenges in our performance system, including, of course, that it has become so extremely complex and complicated that there is hardly anyone who has a complete overview over there. That is why a Services Commission has been set up. It will soon be done with its work, and then the political discussions will wait on what we will then do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133918	Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511133919	I hear this as an indication from the Prime Minister that it is a bottom-up task; I really hope that this is how it should be understood. Because when you read the interview with the Minister for Employment, he says that it is not a prestige project for the government to do anything about this area. I simply do not understand that it cannot be a prestige project for a social democratic government to do something about an area which means that people live in poverty in Denmark I do not understand that. I would like to be absolutely sure that the answer is: yes, something needs to be done. We may disagree with the starting point, but we must act on children growing up in our country in poverty and that it is not just a prestige project, but actually something that the Prime Minister of the children will do something about, namely child poverty in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134013	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134014	We have to see if a political majority materialises once the Commission of Service has completed its work. We do not know that in advance, but there will be political negotiations, so we will have to see how far we can go and with whom. It is, of course, in this area as with other political negotiations. I think we need to have some rounds where we discuss with each other, what poverty really is for a size, because I think it has become too easy, and I think it has been for many years to use some figures that I do not think are sustainable. Because if you go down the 60 000 and start looking at available amounts, I simply do not agree that there is a poverty problem for all families. I think it is true that it is there in some, and it has a lot to do with how long you are on the benefits and why you are there and whether you can get out of there. However, I think that it will require a much more thorough discussion before we conclude how much the problem of child poverty really is. So I also said this before the elections, and I would just like to emphasise it in the election campaign and immediately after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134110	Mai Villadsen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134112	Then it is good that we also have to discuss a poverty limit in Denmark, and then we have to have this discussion. I do not think we agree, but we have to find a way forward, because it is really important that we do something in this area. I would also like to hold on to another area which is very much in place right now, namely the corona. The Prime Minister himself mentioned India in one of his answers. We are currently seeing a regular disaster in India with thousands of dead people... these are horrible pictures. In the Enhedslisten, we have repeatedly proposed that the patents on corona vaccine should be suspended temporarily while the crisis is raging. Now we can see that American President Joe Biden has proposed it together and Emmanuel Macron says the same thing. The Prime Minister is open to action, but does not make it quite clear either today or earlier what the Prime Minister really thinks. That is why I would like to hear here in the Chamber: does the Prime Minister not think that it could be a way of doing something by helping to get some vaccines out to the very, very needy countries quickly and cheaply?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134217	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134219	If I were certain that that is the solution, I would take the view that that is just what we should be doing. But I am simply not sure that this is the right solution, because the problem is that there are not enough factories. The problem is not that we do not have good vaccines. This means that the patent is there, the vaccine exists, but the world cannot keep up with production capacity. Neither India nor the United States can do that. After all, India is now a major producer country in terms of vaccines or here in Europe. So it is seen in my eyes if it is about generating vaccines on the short, the medium track, but also on the longer track, a capacity issue. There, I have a concern that the patent issue can in fact, through the back door, be allowed to stand up to it, although I am absolutely sure of what is at the root of the issue, namely a desire to have the vaccines spread. So I'm not sure that's the right way. In my view, this is first and foremost a capacity issue that is holding us all back right now, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134322	Thanks to Mai Villadsen. The question is over. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134342	Thank you for that, President. I wonder if there were many of us who sighed deeply when the Johnson & Johnson vaccine did not become part of the Danish vaccine program. It is so good that we have now decided that there is a voluntary scheme, and there is a lot of that, that is, how it can be done, etc. But that worries me a little anyway, not to mention much. After all, we depend on the Danes to trust the vaccines, and it may be difficult to understand that while we have to keep some restrictions, otherwise, someone says, things are going wrong, so the same people say that we cannot approve this vaccine. I find that very difficult to understand. I have seen the technical explanations and so on.; it's just very hard to understand. What worries me is what I would like to ask here, because we have to give the Danes security about the vaccine programme. It is a vaccine programme that has been postponed time and time again because we have not been able to get the vaccines we need and it will not be better when some of them are not approved for mass vaccination. What makes me deeply worried is when you watch a TV show... some of the best cozy programs on Danish television... where the host sits and asks those who are in there: Could you take one of the scraped vaccines? That gives the Danes a completely wrong picture of what these vaccines are. It is approved vaccines that millions of Americans and millions of other people take, but it then gets the name scraped vaccine in Denmark. What can we do about it? We are politicians, and we also have to ask what it is that we ensure a certain level of security in the population. Because we're gonna have this country fully opened up. We need the Danes, if they want, to take the vaccine. So now I would just like to suggest that we forget all about jantelov, even if there are some colleagues in this Chamber who want to cultivate the jantelov issue wildly, and then we party leaders, if we want to, take off the jacket, sneak up their sleeves and for rolling cameras, must be vaccinated with Johnson & Johnson and send the signal to the Danes that they can safely be vaccinated and that they should not be afraid. Isn't that a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134549	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134551	As regards each vaccine, I will leave each one alone, but I would like to stress that the fact that Johnson & Johnson is not included in the vaccination programme is not a political decision. It is not a decision made in the Folketing or in the government. This is an approved vaccine, both in the United States, by the EMA in Europe and by the Danish health authorities, and I know there has not been a single death related to men who have taken the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. So it is the Danish Health Service that has decided on the Johnson & Johnson vaccine on its own. This is not a political decision. On the other hand, it is a political decision, and I am pleased that there must now be an opt-in system in Denmark so that the two approved vaccines which the health authorities do not want to use for the present in Denmark can be used. This applies to the AstraZeneca vaccine and to the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. Moreover, I can confirm the picture that it is crucial that there is confidence in the Danish vaccine roll-out and as it progresses, and fortunately it does, regardless of these decisions, it seems that we are getting a very, very high support in Denmark for the vaccine roll-out. We are right now, for the groups that have been vaccinated, on a connection of more than 90%. in many of them, and thus we are potentially, almost, with a world record or with something that might remind us of it, at the moment. So it is just to stress that this is not a political decision in relation to the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. It's the decision of the National Health Service alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134726	Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134727	If the Prime Minister does not want to take a shot in the arm with me, then all we have to do is talk it up together and I'm thinking about legal products on this occasion. We need to talk it up. I'm deeply, deeply concerned when enlightened people can call it scraped vaccines. I'm deeply concerned about what this could lead to. Well, now we're at vaccines, and it's probably taken a little on the basis of the issues that have been raised in the past. I am becoming more and more comforted by some of what the Prime Minister has said, but the Prime Minister says that this is, after all, about the capacity in relation to the vaccines and that it is not so much about the patent. But I would really like to know what the Prime Minister's position is. Because I hear from this desk some statements that the President of the United States is saying it and that Macron is saying it. Do we not agree that no matter who says so, lifting patents is purely socialism with great risks to future research? So shouldn't we agree that this thing about lifting patents is just a no-go?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134835	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134837	First of all, it is quite right that we are not talking about scraped vaccines. In view of the current situation in Denmark, the Danish Health Authority considers that it does not wish to recommend the use of two vaccines. But these are approved vaccines. As far as Johnson & Johnson is concerned, it has been approved by the American health authorities, by the European health authorities and by the Danish health authorities. So we're not talking about scraped vaccines. Politically, we have chosen to make an opt-in system, and I expect that when there is a broad majority in this Parliament who wants such an opt-in system, everyone, including the health authorities, is working all they can to make that system work as quickly as possible. Every hour that scheme is not in operation is a wasted hour for Denmark and for the world. For what is important with regard to covid-19 is that we achieve bunch immunity, and there we are right now behind on points in Denmark because two vaccines have been taken out of our vaccine roll-out. I think that the words that are attached to the question of patents should be left to Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen owns himself. But I would like to confirm that there is, of course, a risk if you go through the patent path, in other words that you are blocking further development. In other words, we are dealing with private companies which, in private and public cooperation, have made really good vaccines, and we must be careful that we do not put our feet on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134950	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511134954	Thank you. I guess I just needed to get rid of it to balance the debate a little. Enough about that. After all, some of us will meet next week and will talk about what will happen on 21 May, i.e. during the next reopening phase. It is a bit the same thing I almost said, we play every time, so that some say that we have to open something more and that others say that no, now it is a little too much, and they are very worried. Are we not about to be there now that we can agree that, even if every time we negotiate, we sit and talk about how worrying it can be, it never ends like that? For the Danes responsible people are deeply responsible people who think. I think we now have about 150 hospitalized. We've been under 200 since February. I suppose there are soon no arguments for us to continue to zealously drive one restriction after another. I know that although we have the corona passport, many restrictions still remain, for example. restaurants. And at some point we'd like to go where they can run an ordinary business and where you can make money when you run a business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135100	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135101	Restaurants must be allowed to do so, and we are all looking forward to it. It is good for the restaurants, it is good for the Danes, it is good for the Danish economy. We are, it has to be said, in the process of phasing out restrictions and reopening society. Until now, we have managed to reopen faster than we expected. This was also true last spring. Fortunately, we are looking into a continuing stable development of infection, which, I believe, is largely due to the fact that we have the corona passport. For the very high test capacity helps to shut down the infection chains along with infection detection and the other initiatives. So let's meet up for negotiations again. I don't want to characterize the negotiations as a game that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsens did, but it is true that over the past 14-15 months we have taken some of the same roles in a number of discussions. We're very, very close to hopefully the finish line now. Every day that passes, more and more Danes are being vaccinated, and the season helps us. So we're very, very close by now, fortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135201	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Question Time is over here, but we just needed to get a little booze off. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135222	Thank you. Last time we were standing here, I asked the Prime Minister for a verdict on two foreigners accused in Copenhagen City Court of 794 crimes, including the rape of an only 14-year-old girl, whom the two foreigners committed in turn, while even filming it, and the two foreigners were not expelled. I understood the answer that, overall, the Prime Minister agreed that foreigners who commit serious crime, which the rape of a minor must be said to be, should not be in this country. But I did not think I was given a clear answer as to what the Prime Minister would do about it, which is why I sent a letter to the Prime Minister on 28 April, the day after the hour of questioning, where I quite precisely asked the questions which I, without such great success, tried to get an answer to during Question Time. The letter with the questions was sent by me, but with many thousand worried Danes as co-signators, and it has now been two weeks, and unfortunately I have not received an answer. I assume, however, that the Prime Minister is now aware of the questions and will also be able to answer them more clearly today than two weeks ago, so let me ask the questions again, and I must point out that this is not the specific case that I ask the Prime Minister to state that this is not the case at hand, but that it is the fundamental and general aspects on which I wish to know the Prime Minister's position. 1) Does the Prime Minister wish to defend the current legal situation in which two foreigners who rape a 14-year-old girl are allowed to stay in Denmark? 2) If the answer is no, what will the Prime Minister specifically change in the legislation to ensure that Danish courts judge for expulsion in cases such as this one? And 3) What will the Prime Minister do to ensure that it is the Folketing that decides which criminal acts will lead to expulsion from Denmark and that we are not prevented by the Court of Human Rights, by EU law or by the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135433	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135434	In relation to the specific case, and I understand that there is a desire for a more general discussion, I understand that the prosecution has appealed and that it is therefore now in the courts. On the more general level, i.e. in relation to question 1, I believe that you should be expelled from Denmark if you rape a 14-year-old. So there is the answer, yes, and I think you absolutely must. I believe that the act and the cruel crime of raping a child is in any case bad, but that it is a child, makes it only ten times worse, so nothing has to do in Denmark anymore, and it does not matter what connection you have, and if you have children here, you are in any case also disqualified from being parents of those children if you rape a child. So, yes, I think you have to be deported. I have become wiser on this issue since it was raised last time, and I understand that something special is going on in the case of EU citizens, and that then requires us to lift it here at European level. The fact that we have freedom of movement in the European Union should not therefore be used to commit crime, and it should not be used to rape a 14-year-old. That is why it is at European level that we have to see if we can tighten these rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135552	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135553	Well, that's a real dilemma. Well, the dilemma is that the Prime Minister is probably, like me and virtually everyone else in our society, deeply resentful that this can happen, that is, that you can rape a 14-year-old girl and be a foreign citizen, and that it does not then have the consequence that you are of course sent back to your home country. On the other hand, it says that there is an agreement that has been reached with other European countries. Personally, I am fighting for the Danes to be able to choose politicians who decide the rules of our own country. It is we here in the Folketing who set the framework for how we can live together, and that is for me the core of the people's regime. In concrete terms, however, in 2004 the EU's residence directive was adopted and introduced, and I know that it happened under a left-wing government with the DF as a support party, but the Social Democracy also voted in favour at that time. So the question is: Will the Prime Minister acknowledge that mistake and change the law so that we can expel those who rape underage girls in Denmark in future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135701	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135702	If we take the Residence Directive first, the idea of it has never been that it should be used to rape, and therefore it must also be possible to seek to amend the Residence Directive so that it cannot be used to commit such serious crime in other countries without having consequences and without it having any significance. I am in favour of us Europeans being able to move around, we can take work, we can study that we can link family ties and travel, and what else we do with each other, which serves all of us for the best, but of course it should not be used to commit serious crime, nor should it be used to undermine our labour markets, nor should it be used for us, nor should we have had the discussion in Denmark about the crime associated with begging, which then suddenly hit Danish homeless people, who have never done anything but lie on the street, what they shouldn't have either, but that is another discussion. So it must be possible for us to seek to change a residence directive so that it cannot be used to commit crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135809	Mrs Pernille Vermund, on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135811	A solution where all other EU countries have to find a way forward sounds like a slightly long-haired process, which probably does not help the girls who are affected here, but leave it at that. I would say that all these criminal foreigners, whom the current government and which previous governments have let into our country, are, to put it mildly, a real headache for our society. 143 foreign rapists have been sentenced to expulsion since 2015 and only 22 of them have been registered by Denmark in 22 out of 143. This is clear from an answer I have received from the Minister of Justice. So when the rapists are finally sentenced to expulsion, most people are still waiting, ready for new adventures in Denmark, as it were, and my question here is therefore twofold: one is whether it is fair to the victims that the courts judge for expulsion, but that the government does not ensure that the sentences are enforced. If the answer is yes, let us leave it there, but if the answer is 'no' and I hope it is 'I would like to hear, like the other, whether the Prime Minister will be involved in seducing these foreign rapists so that there is no inconvenience to the surrounding society, possibly a place where there is only one door out, and that is the door out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135927	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511135928	In other words, if you are deported by Denmark, you have to leave Denmark, and we have to do everything we can to ensure that this happens. In fact, I am not quite aware of what New Citizens really think about the European Union, i.e. whether we should opt out of European cooperation, and if you mean that we are fundamentally divided. For EU cooperation, of course, presents challenges, but overall it gives a much greater value, not just for Denmark, but for Europe, that we have common political cooperation, and I will fight for that, and I think I will always do so. The only peaceful time that has been in Europe is, while we have worked together on cross-border and cross-border issues, as we are doing now. So, no, I do not want to terminate EU cooperation. I want to change EU cooperation from within, and this applies, for example, to the Residence Directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140015	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no more questions. We're gonna go clean up a little bit. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140036	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that the Prime Minister and I look a little differently at how many and what restrictions we will have in the country in the coming period, and perhaps in particular at when the last restrictions will have to be lifted. At any rate, I have the clear view that when all vulnerable groups and all over 50 have been vaccinated, it is difficult to justify further restrictions, even if we young, frivolous people under 50 may be at risk of receiving corona because we have not received a vaccine. And I find it particularly difficult to justify restrictions in the situation that is now, when we have almost received the word of the health authorities that a corona infection is not so dangerous to the younger part of the population. This must be the logical conclusion when the health authorities have decided and found that the Johnson&Johnson vaccine is more dangerous than getting a corona virus, even if the Johnson&Johnson vaccine has not been shown to have serious complications, and only one in 83,000 women has it. Then you can't say it's a dangerous vaccine, but according to the authorities, it's more dangerous to get this vaccine than it is to get corona, if only for the younger sections of the population. And then I find it difficult to justify that something must be closed and there must be many restrictions when all over 50 and all the vulnerable groups have been vaccinated. And there we look at things very differently. The Prime Minister has previously told Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen today that even when all Danes are vaccinated, there will be some restrictions in Denmark. There will be few restrictions, but there will be some. And I think that's crazy - to put it bluntly. I would like to hear: what are the restrictions the Prime Minister sees when all Danes have been vaccinated against coronavirus or all those who want to? And what conditions do we really have to meet in order to lift the last restrictions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140218	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140219	Why don't we just stop throwing that tendency into this kind of half-fake news into the Assembly Hall? I have not said at any time that there would be certain restrictions at any particular time. I haven't said that at any time. I look forward to the day when the last restriction is gone. There's practically nothing I'm looking forward to more than that. So it is not true when it is said that I have said that there would be restrictions when everyone has been vaccinated. I didn't say anything about that. What I have said about restrictions, which, incidentally, we are constantly phasing out and which, fortunately, are becoming fewer and fewer, is that we have them at the time when they are necessary to have them. This cannot be translated into quoting me as saying that there will be certain restrictions at a given time. For the restrictions we have in Denmark, we have to control the epidemic where the epidemic may be. So no, it's not true what's being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140310	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140311	It is certainly true that the Prime Minister has not said what certain restrictions will be when all Danes have been vaccinated. But since Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen asked earlier today whether it would be possible to guarantee that all restrictions have been lifted when all Danes have been vaccinated, then the Prime Minister's answer was that there would be very few restrictions when all Danes have been vaccinated. That was the PM's answer. And then my question is: what restrictions is the Prime Minister supposed to have when all Danes have been vaccinated? And what conditions must be met for us to be able to remove all restrictions in relation to the granting of that guarantee? And I understand that you cannot say when, but then you can at least talk about what conditions must be met. But, of course, it could also be that the answer is that we remove all restrictions when everyone has been vaccinated and that is what we want a clear answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140349	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140351	But that's not true either. I have not said that there are restrictions when all people have been vaccinated. What I am saying is that the restrictions we may need as a society at any given time, I think we need to have in order to control the epidemic. And it goes without saying that the more people who are being vaccinated, the less restrictions we need. It is clear, and we are in the process of doing so, and a lot of evidence suggests that it is now primarily Israel and the UK that we can lean on as countries that have good vaccine experience and that the vaccine works, and it even works very well. It works well in relation to mortality, it works well in any case Pfizer-BioNTech in relation to mutations. So the vaccines work, and in that much suggests that we in Denmark get a fantastic high level of vaccine coverage, I feel more and more confident that normal Denmark, and that is, a Denmark without a lot of restrictions, is within reach. And it is within reach in a way that we have not seen over the past few months, fortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140455	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140457	At any rate, I find it difficult to get this guarantee that all restrictions will be lifted and when that can happen. But what is guaranteed at any rate is that there will be a lot of bureaucracy in the public sector, even as we reopen society completely. And something interesting actually happened during the shutdown last year. There were a lot of doctors and nurses out saying that they had actually got better working conditions; they had found it easier to solve the tasks because a number of middle managers and with them bureaucratic processes had been discharged. And that gave me the idea at that time, one year ago, that we should say, as a kind of experiment, that, in cooperation with doctors and nurses, we identify all the bureaucracy that is superfluous in health care, and then we suspend it for one year to come. And if it is the case that nurses and doctors miss the meaningless paperwork, and if patients even miss it, then we could always restore that bureaucracy. And I suggested that to the Prime Minister, exactly one year ago, who said that it wasn't that stupid an idea, and that's big words from the Prime Minister when it comes to our respective parties. Not so much has happened since last year, apart from, I believe, that the bureaucracy and the middle managers have returned to the hospitals. And there I would like to hear in all modesty: should we not get something done about it? Let us not say, as an attempt, that for four years try to debureaucratize the public sector. We have not succeeded, and perhaps we should just go into drastic action and say: now we are suspending it for a whole year, and then we see what is happening, of course, not all bureaucracy, but most of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140612	The Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140613	Yeah, it's been a while. We have not been able to walk all the way, but the Folketing has decided that in seven municipalities, in the respective welfare areas, we should be allowed to start all over again. I have just had the opportunity to visit Leon Sebbelin and thus the municipality of Rebild, and subsequently the municipality of Middelfart in the area of the elderly • and the municipality of Viborg, also in the area of the elderly. And that's where you're going to start all over again. And I think it's some of this that needs to be done. Because I still fully agree with Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, that we here in the Folketing are talking and talking about this. And when it comes down to it, we dare not, because we have such a great need to be in control and control everything down to the last detail. I hope that the seven municipalities will show us that you both get better care for the elderly with more dignity, that you get a stronger children's area with more opportunities, and that you get a more interesting school by letting us politicians step back and let parents, children, relatives and employees be the ones who speed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140713	Thank you. And then it's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140731	Thank you, President. I would like to discuss something with the Prime Minister, who has been very worried about us in the Alternative since we got to know this a while ago. It is about agriculture, namely that our agriculture is to some extent being sold abroad. In 2015, the Agriculture Act was liberalised, which means that foreign investors have acquired Danish land, and from 2015-2018 is 21⁄2%. of Danish agriculture has been sold. The area corresponds to twice the Greater Copenhagen area. Earth is among other things. were bought by 300 foreign companies. Since 2018, no one knows how much Danish farmland has been further sold, but there are more and more places around Denmark where we hear that large areas of Danish farmland are being sold abroad. The local population experienced that it was difficult to get in touch with the owner of their neighboring lands. They have experienced, for example, that the living fences between the fields, which are important settlements for example. Redlisted species that his disappeared as foreign investors put their fields together. So we have opened up the possibility that foreign participations can buy unlimited amounts of Danish agricultural land. We know that the Danish farmer is, on average, 57 years old, so agriculture is facing a great change of generation. And we know that, of course, global capital funds are looking for investments that enable them to avoid paying negative interest rates. What does the Prime Minister think about the fact that in the years to come we risk foreign participations actually acquiring large parts of Danish agriculture, in other words large parts of Denmark? The Prime Minister has said many times that we are an agricultural country. But how can Denmark be an agricultural country if we actually sell our land?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140924	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511140925	In fact, I think that is an incredibly good question. And that's right. I think it's about 21⁄2%. now, which has been bought from the outside. I also understand that the alternative has tabled a motion for a resolution on this. And the agricultural negotiations are well under way, so I would actually like to suggest that we bring this issue into the negotiations, because, of course, it is quite appropriate to look at it. So I actually think the issue is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141021	I mean, I'm really happy about the PM's response to this, and about the fact that we can take it into the negotiations and look at it there. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that when it is the case that our country is being sold in fairly large chunks to large investors, it can also be difficult for these future generations of young Danish farmers and workers to hopefully ecologically take over the country because they are in competition with large foreign investors. So thank you for that response. And I hope that the Minister will also help to ensure that we may somehow find a way to stop the pace with which Denmark is being sold.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141100	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141102	Yes, it is already quite difficult with the generational change in Danish agriculture. And I think what you hear when you talk to agriculture is that it is quite impossible for such a young man or woman or a married couple who would like to be a farmer at all to raise capital to be able to enter today. So we have challenges here. On the whole, I think that we should have a critical eye on it when it comes to buying out from outside. Now we're in the middle of the capital. It's a capital city where we usually boast that ordinary people can afford to live. It's getting harder and harder, but we can still enjoy having a city centre where there is light in the windows at night because people actually live. If you look at other capitals, you will see that there is a tendency for light to be turned off in many places, because it is very rich people from outside, who then buy an apartment in Berlin or London or a third place, and then you may be there four times a year. I don't want it to be like that in Copenhagen. I want us to have a Copenhagen where people live and live and where it is not rich people from outside, whether it is Danes who live elsewhere, or not dancers who then buy apartments that are not used, but which also help to push prices up. So maybe we should have a focus both on the country and on the city.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141207	Sir. Torsten Gejl, one last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141208	Well, the alternative certainly shares those hopes and those visions. The last question is from a Member. We always have a member question, and here it is from Jens Harder Vingaard Larsen who briefly asks:
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141233	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141235	Well, I think that we have excellent rules in relation to party support in Denmark. And my experience is quite general: we are a country with great transparency and with what is, objectively, a very, very low level of both nepotism and corruption. So I'm not walking around with an experience that we have problems in the parties on this issue. But, of course, we can always discuss party support rules. But so, we have a very, very well-functioning Danish democracy, and of course we have to hold on to that in every possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141306	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. After a little cleaning, it's sir. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141329	Some 20 years ago, the Social Democratic Party got a media rapporteur into the Folketing, who was both extremely committed to opposing in the Left's political media rapporteur, but who was also very committed to strengthening the public service, to investing in our local and regional daily newspapers, and that we had to make sure that we had a very strong arm's length principle in the face of the political interference that was coming in. Next week, the Christian Democrats are presenting a major media issue that finally does something and meets some of this media rapporteur's visions for the media area and helps a little on the way. We are making massive investment in the media sector. We want to double the media subsidy in this country because we have a democratic infrastructure that we need to rebuild. How do we finance it? We do this by establishing a special media tax because we want there to be popular ownership of our democratic infrastructure. Then we set up the arm's length principle, and we naturally want to strengthen our local and regional magazines, because we need to do something about the news deserts that are emerging, and then of course we need to have some strong public service stations, including regional ones. I would really like to hear what the Prime Minister thinks about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141516	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141517	Then we just came down memory lane. It is almost 20 years since there was a table here in the middle of the Parliamentary Chamber where the then rapporteur for the Left and the then Social Democrat rapporteur crossed blades quite many late evenings and night hours in very, very long discussions. I really don't think we disagree on that point, though perhaps enough about how much money we can afford to spend on it here and now, because there are many other tasks. But we share the idea of strengthening Danish-produced public service. Moreover, this is also the basis for the paper of understanding, and that need has not diminished in recent times. Moreover, I think it is right and have a strong focus on the local and regional press, which I often experience is present in relation to issues that concern many people and that sometimes it may be difficult to see reflected at least in some of the national media. In addition, there has been a completely new issue: it was not there for almost 20 years ago in connection with the streaming services, the tech giants, who both challenge the rights holders, but who are also involved, I believe, in some areas to undermine our democratic conversation with algorithms and the forwarding of fake news and without an editor's responsibility. So I really only think that the media discussion has become even more relevant than it was almost 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141647	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141649	It's nice to hear that the Prime Minister thinks so. Then I would just like a little more commitment on the part of the government in this matter. As far as the tech giants are concerned, we also come up with proposals on how to regulate some of the issues which we are obviously facing and which the Prime Minister also mentions. On 24 January 2020, the Minister for Culture wrote a chronicle that Danish media are preparing for the challenges that are both coming, and now it is time for politicians to get involved and become part of the solution. Since then, we have heard nothing from the government. When is the media game coming from the government that part of us has been waiting for at least a long time? I can see that, sir. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten is sitting down there, and we have been pressing for a long time, and when will negotiations be convened? At the moment, money is pouring out of these local and regional media in particular, and over recent years it is 25%. by them been disbanded. Isn't it time to act?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141752	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141753	I can say that I have, in fact, just recently had a meeting with the three party leaders from the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten in relation to social media and tech giants, and there is a broad consensus that this is a job that we need to prioritise and set in motion. It's got a lot of dimensions in it. In addition to the purely media issue, we also have the problem of not paying the tax to be paid, of passing on information which is not right, of using it not only to cloud the debate, but also to destroy, for example, democratic electoral acts with troll armies and other things. So there's a lot of trouble here. And then I think we have to say that the way in which social media are used, including in the political debate, is, to a large extent, helping to polarise and divide us instead of putting ourselves together in what is the Danish tradition, namely that we are talking to each other. So it's a job that we'll start soon. Then it is quite right that we have not achieved everything we would have liked in the past year, and that is quite simply because we have been very concerned about resolving the crisis, but a media conciliation has to be started, and we have to get on with it this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141901	Then it's Jens Rohde with the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511141903	That's what you said last year. After all, the Minister for Culture has promised it several times. That is how every six months it will be: now, in this six-month period, we have to start negotiating the media. The problem is, of course, that these issues mentioned by the Prime Minister are certainly not new, and it only gets worse and worse with the journalism, not journalists as such, but the number of journalistic posts and the number of journalistic work in the open country, when the country is sanding up in these news deserts.Syddansk University has shown this in a report and when the economy disappears. That is why we need to act quickly, and there has been a long time. So once again, when will those negotiations be started, and when can we expect a government initiative? Now we will bring ours here next week, and I hope that the government will be inspired to get a little out of the pits as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511142003	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511142005	Well, I'm not going to duck my neck when I say that of course we've been delayed in some of our work because of the pandemic. It has called for an incredible presence, and fortunately, I was going to say, we have fulfilled the role that we, as a government, have been able to play as well. So, of course, there are things that will be late. So, as I said before, I'm not gonna pop my neck, because when there's a pandemic of this nature, that's what should be the primary focus of government. Now we are on our way out of the critical phase, and that also means that there is beginning to be air for many more other political projects, including the media negotiations, which we therefore expect to embark on this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511142043	Thank you. The question is over. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 14,35. I would ask Members to leave the Chamber so that we can clean up, because at 1 p.m. 14.35 votes will be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511143502	The sitting is resumed. Today there are the following reviews: The Prime Minister (Mette Frederiksen) has informed me that she wishes to do so pursuant to Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the Kingdom Community 2021. R 17). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. May 2021. Members of the Folketing Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a parliamentary decision to remove the pay gap for women's dominated professions in the public sector. 243). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511143541	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511143555	The Enhedslisten is pleased that the government has observed a problem that is for the small self-employed when they need to be re-placed after a crisis period. We appreciate that. We are also pleased that the government has tabled an amendment to its own proposal, which shows that they understand that it is not just doing something like this. On the other hand, we are completely unaware of the fact that when the government has identified a problem affecting the small self-employed and is told that it is also something that affects employees, then it does not propose an amendment that ensures that employees are not affected by this scheme either. The problem is very simple. We have been through a year of crisis which we would rather be thrown away, but we cannot do that; it exists in 2020. A great many people have been fired and have taken short-term temporary workers to lower wages than they are used to, and now they are standing and being calculated with a new daily allowance rate which will apply for the next three years. The government cannot excuse itself with ignorance, for it is very clear from the examples that are: Bent smoked in the daily allowance trap: Lost over DKK 6,000 a month, • Vivis temporary employment costs her DKK 8,000 a month • Sonja loses DKK 3,000 a month • etc. etc. It is worth noting some rates that are calculated and will apply until the next time they become unemployed and have had the 1,924 hours. It is incomprehensible to me that the government will not solve the problem for employees when they want to solve it for the small self-employed. That is why we have had to table the amendment. It is a very simple proposal, it is just a question of equality. I would very much like to ask for an explanation from the Social Democratic Party or from the government as to what the reasons are for resolving the problem only for the small self-employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511143801	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511143813	Before starting the vote, I would ask you to check that there is a correct name in the voting panel. 1 and 3, elected by a majority (S, V, DF, RV, KF and NB)? Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 16 (SF, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 71 (S, V, RV, KF, NB, LA and KD), abstentions 8 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I propose that the bill should be dealt with directly thirdly without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511143920	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210511143939	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210511144003	When we have to take a break now, it is because there are some of these second readings which are now going to the third reading, and there is therefore some technique in relation to it. That is why I have to postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 14.55.
