ParlaMint-DK_20210226100047	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health (Magnus Heunicke): Bill no. L 182 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health. Marie Bjerre (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 171 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution granting private persons the right to call themselves day carers). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 172 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the sharpening of sentences in connection with the killing of several persons). Titles on the reported cases will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226100139	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 2 March 2021. First of all, we need the explanatory statement from the rapporteur for the questioners, so we are giving the floor to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226100210	Thank you very much. In 2003, the Folketing decided to provide financial assistance to pensioners and others in need of foot treatment. At that time it was well known that there was a difference between a foot nurse and a foot therapist, but at that time citizens were granted the right to decide for themselves who they were going to, so that they could continue their treatment with the treatment they now had. However, as time has passed, it has become more normal for the municipalities to tender for the treatment. It's to make sure you get the cheapest treatment. This often compromises quality because some municipalities look more at price than quality. It also turned out when Denmark's Radio in the Cash programme in 2018 conducted a study that showed that a number of citizens received poor treatment and that the students who were there received a poor education. I would just like to add that there are a great many good footkeepers there are guaranteed also some bad foot therapists, but it is just not the same health care safety when it comes to citizens with chronic illnesses. As a foot therapist has a license, there is supervision from the Patient Safety Board. You can complain about poor treatment, and you can also seek compensation, and that is because they are authorised. And that's why we think we need to close this hole in the law. We must ensure that our elderly and weakened citizens in Denmark can receive the best treatment, and the reason why we in the Danish People's Party have raised this question is to get the two ministers to enter the debate to look at the challenge that we have. And we look forward to the debate we will have here for the next hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226100423	Thank you. Then we go to the answer, and that is first the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226100442	Thank you very much for the floor, President, and not least thank you to the Danish People's Party for giving the Minister for Health and myself the opportunity to talk about extended health allowance for foot-treatment. I will start with the health minister's initial speech. In this context, of course, patient and health safety is important. General health allowance can only be granted for the treatment of a therapist, i.e. a licensed practitioner. It is the Health Act that determines which types of treatment etc. a general health allowance must automatically be granted under pension legislation. Extended health allowance can be given for both therapists and foot nurses. In other words, there are no authorization requirements for treatments under extended health supplements. However, it is important to bear in mind that extended health allowance can only be granted for foot-and-mouth treatment in the case of foot-and-mouth treatment which cannot be subsidised under Chapters 15 and 42 of the Health Act or can be granted under Section 71 of the Services Act. So the municipalities will necessarily have to make a professional assessment of the treatment needs and all opportunities for financial assistance, etc. An extended health allowance may be granted for continued foot-and-mouth treatment in addition to the treatment that can be provided by home care. It can be granted to pensioners who do not have a disability but who still need foot treatment, and it can be granted to pensioners with disability who need foot treatment. The rules on extended health allowances under the Social Pensions Act were introduced in 2003. In the absence of a requirement for the foot-treatment to be carried out by state-authorized foot-therapists, it was, among other things, because the rules were intended to allow the continuation of municipal practice. At the same time, the rules should allow pensioners to continue to receive treatment from the treatment provider, authorised as well as unauthorized, which the pensioner already used and was comfortable with. It was therefore a balanced consideration that led to the rules being drawn up in such a way as to continue to grant subsidies for treatments, regardless of whether the practitioner was authorised or not. The introduction of the rules in 2003 meant an improvement for economically disadvantaged pensioners in the form of better and more uniform coverage of necessary costs for spectacles, dentures and foot treatments for which no allowance is granted under the Health Act. If we look at the latest figures in this area from 2019, we can see that very many pensioners use the scheme. In 2019, nearly 110 million were given. kr. Increased health allowance. The Government considers that the extended health allowance scheme is working well and that there are no general indications of patient safety problems. It is therefore, overall, an arrangement which we in the government welcome and which we do not have any current plans to change. Having said that, I can tell you that we will take a closer look at the quality of the foot treatments under the extended health allowance. The Minister for Health will be able to tell you more about this. I shall now pass on the floor to the Minister for Health. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226100817	Thank you. There are just a few brief comments first before we give the floor. Mrs Kirsten Andersen has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226100827	Thank you. In the real world, when it is the case that you suddenly become a vulnerable patient with circulatory disorders and need foot treatment that you cannot take care of yourself, you first ask home care if they can help with it. So they're the ones who, like, start by saying off in relation to it. Then the citizen must then navigate from it himself. Now that I have problems keeping track of when I can get subsidies for what, when I am entitled to an authorised foot therapist who takes care of it, who has an outside number, who might be able to provide home treatment, and how often I should re-apply for my grant, does the Minister for Employment still think that it is easy to navigate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226100914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226100915	I will by no means neglect the challenges that may be facing the individual citizen, and this applies in relation to the extended health allowance, as it applies in all kinds of other areas, including public subsidies. I do not want to neglect the difficulties of individual citizens to find their way around and navigate the possibilities that are available, including limitations, but when I mention that we regard the scheme as a success, it is because of the consumption that everything else is equal where we could see that in 2019 there was a move of 110 million. kr. But that does not mean that things cannot be made clearer, clearer and more transparent for the individual citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101011	Kirsten Normann Andersen is about to begin his second brief remark There is only one brief comment, so it did not go right this time. We shall now give the floor to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101012	Yes, there are certain rules here in the first place. I hear the Minister for Employment say that it is a success because many people use it. I thought that the Socialist Government was in favour of prevention and that we should ensure a good quality in the treatment we offer to our citizens, and that is why I would like to ask whether this is something that the Minister for Employment will look at. I know that this is, of course, an area which lies mainly with the Minister for Health, but it must also be with the Minister for Employment that we ensure that, for example. Those who provide treatment to our sick and weak have a wide-ranging education in health care which also enables them to prevent, which means that they can pass citizens on to health care. You make data, you make records, and the Patient Safety Board will always be able to come, and that's not how it is in the other places. Is that really satisfactory for an employment minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101111	I would like to start by saying that Mrs Liselott Blixt is quite right in saying that both the social democracy and the government are so concerned about prevention. I listed earlier in my speech what the reflections behind the amendment of the law back in 2003 were, and at that time there was pressure, after what I was able to read out, for I was not in the Folketing at that time, that older people could keep the types of treatment they had at that time. This does not mean that we cannot do it any better, cannot do it any more wisely, and that is why the text of the adoption which is likely to emerge from this question debate also suggests that we will examine whether there are indications of patient safety challenges in the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101204	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. And then we can thank the Minister for Employment and pass on the floor to the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101224	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party and the parties for attending this debate and to my colleague for reviewing the social pension scheme. In addition to the Health Act, there are also rules on the granting of subsidies to certain patient groups for the treatment of practitioners. These include people with diabetes, severe rheumatoid arthritis, severe psoriatic arthritis, ingrown nails or scar tissue that require foot treatment. In these cases, treatment is carried out by medical reference and by authorised therapists, who are connected to the agreement between the RLTN and Danish Foot Therapists. This also means, of course, as the Folketing knows, that there are demands for record keeping, supervision, redress and everything we know when there is an authorisation in play. This applies, in general, to treatment carried out by authorised health professionals, which this also includes. I understand that it is this type of requirement that the authors of this question ask the government whether it will not extend to the extended health allowance scheme. As the Minister for Employment pointed out, it is the view of the government that there are generally many examples of the functioning of the system of foot-and-mouth treatment with extended health supplements and a great deal of help and that a large number of citizens, we can simply see, take advantage of and benefit from the system. Having said that, however, we will also indicate that we are prepared to look at whether there are indications that patient safety in the system should be improved. There has also been some work in some organisations which just point out that perhaps there is something to come for. Against this background, the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Health have agreed to participate in a work to examine the patient safety conditions in the scheme, and this will also involve the relevant health professional competences found in the agencies in the Ministry of Health. For the sake of good order, as the rapporteurs are also aware, those governments are currently busy dealing with covid-19, which is taking up a lot of resources at the moment. It is, of course, a first priority, and therefore it will just take some time before you can get that work started, but as soon as the situation permits, the work will be set in motion in these governments. And we can state that at least by the end of 2021 at the latest, the two ministries will jointly initiate this work, which will ensure more concrete knowledge of the scheme. And then you can decide if something should happen after that. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101518	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101521	Thank you very much and thank the Minister for Health that we can now at least look at it. At least it's one step closer. And there is certainly an understanding that the Board for Patient Safety has much else to do, although I thought that there was not so much to do under corona, not even for the rest of us, but fortunately we can sometimes talk about e.g. feet. The very thing about the Board of Patient Safety is something that has developed over the last twenty years. We can look back to 2003, where this legislation was made. Therefore, I hope that the Minister for Health will look at this precisely with the eyes that make us have to ensure this prevention that has made us get more and more elderly people. We have more people who suffer chronically, and we have some more citizens we need to be careful of. I would like to know whether this is something that the Minister for Health takes into account in his thinking that we must ensure good quality for those citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101620	Thank you for those words. That is absolutely correct. I do not think it makes any sense to blame the scheme that was made back there almost twenty years ago. I think this has proved to be a wise and good decision which has solved many problems. But there is no doubt that it is now a good opportunity to look at it again, i.e. whether a proper distinction is made here. All we have to do is do it wisely and properly. Foot therapists, that is public education, are subject to approval from the Patient Safety Management Authority and there is a requirement for record keeping and redress and supervision, etc. And then we have foot nurses, and that's another type of education. It is private, it is not eligible and their fees are not laid down in the agreement between the Danish Foot therapists and the RLTN. It does the foot therapists, while the foot therapists themselves can set a benefit price. So it's two different worlds, you might say. We may need both, I think, to get it flexible and easy and good for the individual as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101728	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101730	Thank you. Following on from the previous questioner, I would like to say that I am delighted that the Minister is saying that we must invest in authorised staff for this important preventive action, as it is, because it is furiously expensive when it comes to amputations because we do not prevent foot wounds, for example. However, following on from this, we also note that there are relatively few authorised therapists who are currently looking for outside numbers, because there are also challenges associated with bureaucracy in terms of getting the subsidies that are needed and such things, and that, in fact, prevents patients who have this important need for prevention and who cannot get the same care or help in home care from seeking the right help in time. So do we not also have a challenge where we should just try to see that there is room for several authorised therapists to actually look for outside numbers and thus also to help carry out the task?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101832	If the work shows that there is a problem here, then I think it makes all the more sense to get it started and have it examined in depth. Because it is the case that if you have a number of these sufferings, as I mentioned in my introduction, you have a medical reference to have a foot therapist; and if you do not have a time, you have to find out who else you can go to, and it can then be a foot nurse. In any case, it has the negative consequences of putting the individual citizen, who is already suffering, who is causing pain and who, above all, needs help to be repaired, in a difficult situation, because it must also be prevented from getting worse. So it's definitely an angle that needs to be included in the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101927	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. Then we can move on to the debate, and that is according to the general rules for short remarks, and the first is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226101958	There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party want the best treatment for our elderly and runners. That is also why we are in favour of having an authorisation as a health care provider. Only in this way can the right treatment be controlled and ensured. In my role as health rapporteur, I have fought for more authorisations for several professions. Fortunately, I have been able to get more of them through, and I have promised the Minister for Health that I will fight for even more licences, because here in the Corona we have seen that only those with certificates can keep open, but also because, knowing that there is an authorisation, there is supervision by the Patient Safety Board. You keep a record and you make sure you can trust the people you come to. This is precisely to ensure that the sick and weak citizens that we have in our society can feel safe. I'm going to a foot nurse myself, so it's not to put anything on their job. At the same time, I also know that several of them have joined together in an association that ensures one's education and secure knowledge, as many as I can feel safe when they get their feet done. However, when we give public crowns to citizens who need treatment, we must also ensure that they receive the best treatment and that we monitor whether they are getting a worsening of their diagnosis, and here therapists have a longer education and a duty to report data. The minister himself mentioned diabetes patients, but as many people know, at least those who have diabetes are divided into categories, depending on who pays for the foot treatment and who has to carry it out, i.e. whether it is the region or the municipality. This is also important when, for example, we are dealing with the problem of unemployment. has diabetes, that if you get worse, then a treat can see it and send you on. That is why we believe that there is a good deal of prevention in that we have some citizens who do not feel any worse. Because we have to make sure there's this good patient safety so they can feel safe and they can complain, but they can also get compensation, and you can't do that by going to someone who isn't authorized. After all, we see a great increase in older people and cronys and weakened elderly people precisely because we have become good at preventing and treating patients, fortunately. That is why we see that we are getting so much older, but that is why we must also take care of them. When a citizen with diabetes or psoriatic arthritis needs foot treatment, this is done through a medical reference, and the patient is treated by a state-approved foot therapist. This subsidy is regulated by the Health Act, and here there is a clear requirement that the treatment should be carried out by a state-approved foot therapist. When a regional grant is granted, there is also a municipal requirement that the treatment be provided by a state-approved foot therapist, and then the grant is called the general health allowance. When an elderly citizen who may have other chronic illnesses is required to apply for a foot-and-mouth allowance through the municipality, it is under the responsibility of the extended health allowance, there is no formal requirement for the practitioner's qualifications, and it is therefore free for anyone to reduce himself as a foot-care worker and treat the elderly's feet with grants from the municipality. The legal basis for the extended health allowance is the Social Pension Act, which falls under the Ministry of Employment. There are many of us who, when we have asked questions about this health-care foot treatment, have wondered that it was then with the Minister for Employment, and that is why both ministers are here today. According to Professor Kent Kristensen, this is a gap in the law, which can be quickly corrected by requiring that all health services be authorised, even if they live elsewhere in the legislation, that is, even if it is not with the Minister for Health, but with the Minister for Employment. He says: At an authorisation, the patient is protected because there is a supervision of how the treatment is carried out. So with this I would just like to say that I am very pleased and satisfied that the two ministers will look at the scheme. Of course, we had seen that it could have been in the past, but we also understand the situation we are in. If anyone, I think we health rapporteurs know how busy we have been in the last year. But for the Danish People's Party there is no doubt: to strengthen the close health care system, increased patient safety, quality and prevention are the hallmarks of general health care, and this is something that the elderly and the weak in our society deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226102515	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line and then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226102534	Thank you for the floor and, in particular, thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling a debate on the framework for the foot-and-mouth treatment for which the government grants subsidies. So there should be no doubt that social democracy is very, very concerned about patient safety. When you get treatment in the public system or in the private sector paid by the public sector, we must be absolutely sure that it is an offer of high professional quality and with certainty for the patient. And this is all the way around in our health care and in our care for the elderly. We, as politicians, have a responsibility to ensure this, both to the community, which pays, but not least to the citizens who need help and treatment. Then I have to say that foot-and-mouth treatment is probably not what fills so much in the public debate, but it can of course fill a great deal in people's lives. The problem of having poor feet and having problems with your feet can mean a great deal to the quality of life and also to your mobility at all. And it is true that, according to the Health Act, foot-treatment grants are being granted today, and here it is a requirement that this should be done by an authorised foot-therapist. The same is true if you receive the general health allowance under the Social Pensions Act. But when we talk about the extended health allowance under the Social Pension Act, there is no such requirement. After all, it is not even a requirement that the treatment should be carried out by a person who has undergone a foot-care course, as Mrs Liselott Blixt also mentioned. And that is why we in the Social Democratic Party can certainly support the initiative taken by the Ministry of Employment, together with the Ministry of Health, to see whether there are indications that there are challenges with patient safety. I would also like to make it clear, as Mrs Liselott Blixt did, that we have a great many skilled foot nurses in Denmark, and we must also recognise that we have a great many citizens who are very comfortable with their foot care and who would be sorry to have to change, as is the case today. And we have to say that we also have a lot of well-educated and talented therapists, but we may not have enough of them. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen mentioned this in one of her questions. That is where we may now have a challenge, in relation to what is needed, and in relation to the authorisations that actually exist. So, of course, it's important that we get a look at this area, because there may also be negative consequences by not getting the right foot treatment and things just need to be right. It is a very important and relevant issue that has been raised, and we need to have the area clarified in detail, and that is why I am very pleased that there is a great deal of support in this Chamber for the text of the adoption which I would like to read out now. So far, it is the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, and then I should welcome from the Enhedslisten and say that they could not be here today, but that they also support the adoption text, which reads as follows: Proposals for adoption • In the current rules in the pension legislation for extended health allowances there is no requirement that foot-treatment be carried out by a state-authorized foot-therapist. According to the Health Act, patients with special needs are entitled to a supplement for foot therapy, which is done by medical reference and by authorised therapists. In addition, the Danish Parliament notes that the municipalities carry out the professional assessment of treatment needs and all opportunities for financial assistance in matters relating to the granting of extended health allowance for foot care. The Folketing shall be involved in the study's task description. • V 75). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226102938	Thank you. And the proposal for adoption is now part of the further discussions. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226102946	Thank you. In the rapporteur's speech, which was quite fine, the rapporteur mentions that foot therapy does not take up much of the public debate, and I agree with that. However, the consequences of non-prevention in time are enormous in the overall health care system, and it can be in the form of amputation of a leg because you do not have a foot wound treated in time or have a foot wound prevented in time, and perhaps lifelong home care afterwards. Does it not just make sense to consider that the dynamic effects of prevention in time can actually be saved on the other health care treatment system, in other words simply to think of foot-and-mouth treatment as an important preventive measure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103039	That was a very good question and I would say: yes, absolutely. And I think that is also what is happening in many contexts today when municipal care for the elderly finds that there is a citizen who needs some help here, even of a preventive nature. I also know that, in a way, practitioners also pay attention to it. So that is where I share the questioner's view of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103105	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103107	In fact, in the last example I have heard, there are citizens who can no longer get their hands fixed by home care if they are diabetic and therefore at risk. And that means suddenly you have to go out and buy yourself for help to get your fingernails fixed on your hands. But it is already a costly affair, and it can be difficult to find foottherapists with outside numbers, who also make home visits. Is that fair? Or is it not really enormously wrong that some patients are at risk of having to pay for something that is, in fact, formally personal care, but also preventive personal care, in relation to expensive health costs in the future? Should we not abolish user charges in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103150-2	Well, there is no doubt that we in the Social Democratic Party believe that everyone should have equal access to healthcare and that, of course, we should have as little user pay as possible. After all, we must recognise that we have that today in some areas, and it is important that we keep an eye on whether it is the right level. The example mentioned here by Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen is an example of how there may be a bias, and I think that we should see that and keep looking into whether it is good enough. So I would very much like to take part in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103217	Then it's Mrs. Liselot Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103218	Thank you very much. I fully agree with my colleague, on the other hand, and also with the rapporteur, who says that this is not something we hear and talk about so much. That may also be why we need to review it. When I talk to some elderly people, they say that now they have been allowed to get a supplement to go to foot treatment, then I ask if it is with a foot nurse or with a foot therapist. Then it says, "I don't know." That is also the case when other citizens say they are going to be treated, because then I ask whether it is with a foot nurse or with a foot therapist, and then they say that they do not know. When they get a wound on their feet, or when someone, as Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen says, gets the amputated leg, they say it was because they had diabetes. Nobody talks so much about what we can prevent and what we can do. I would be afraid that an investigation would say that there are not so many complaints, because the amputations that are are due to diabetes, poor circulation or whatver, and then you would not be able to see that the real reason is that there has been no prevention. Is this something that the rapporteur wants to take into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103328	Thank you for the question. It is a very good example of how attentive we should be, as Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen also mentioned, to call this a preventive part of our health care. For what we need to avoid is amputation, because that is terrible for the person concerned, and it is certainly not preventative, because then something has gone wrong. So I think that, as I said before, we should take this into account and be sharper. I think that is a very good question, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103400	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103401	I would also like to know whether the rapporteur will go in to see how we can provide better information. Because I do not think this is just about making legislation, but also about ensuring that people know where it is they can go and get a treatment, and that there is a knowledge base on how footkeepers are trained, and that we know that footkeepers actually have a good education behind them, and not just someone working in a beauty salon. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103443	Thank you for the question. I think it is quite right that there is little knowledge of this, that is to say to know the difference between it, and it is also not certain that the same attention will be paid to local authorities when they refer and allow citizens to move forward in the system. So I think we need to get some attention on that. This also applies to the fact that we now want to create more proximity in our health services and in our municipal practice, because then it is obvious to include it in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103515	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103534	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising a relevant issue with both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Employment: firstly, how we ensure the safety of foot care for the large group of elderly people who receive a municipal health allowance for foot care each year, and secondly, ensure that public subsidy crowns are used for treatment that is expected to have a positive effect. After all, there may be many reasons why you get a grant for foot treatment, either through the region or through the municipality. People who get supplements through the region are typically people with diabetes, ingrown toenails or scar tissue after radiation therapy, or it can be severe rheumatoid arthritis or severe psoriatic arthritis. And it is all regulated by the Health Act, and the agreement between the region and the therapists is concluded with authorized therapists. Common to all the patient groups is that they receive foot treatment by authorised personnel, and thus there is great assurance of quality, and there is also security about the treatment. Different it may look out for people who receive subsidies through the municipality. If you receive a municipal allowance for foot-and-mouth treatment, it is because you are entitled to an extended health allowance. People who are entitled to an extended health allowance are typically folk pensioners without a large fortune. And the challenge is, as Dansk Folkeparti says with the question here, that the municipalities do not require authorisation when funding is granted for treatment. It may be unconfident for our folk pensioners that, when they lay their foot out, they cannot be absolutely sure that whoever leads the knife or the plank is qualified for it. It is not because I say that there are wild west conditions in this area, but it can be inconvenient when there are no uniform starting points for which types of company can receive a grant. Danish Foot Therapists have previously carried out a study which shows: • that 45 percent of the country's municipalities have entered into price agreements on foot care, and that two out of five of these have entered into agreements with non-authorized practitioners. One in four municipalities does not know whether they have price agreements with state-authorized therapists or foot nurses. When it comes to foot-handling, we must be honest to say that we lack an overview of the actual state of the treatment provided by unauthorized footkeepers or footkeepers. For example: We do not know how many patients are mistreated. And we on the Left are completely open to look at the area. For older people, the impression can easily be that when a treatmenter is approved for municipal grants, it is the same as a blue stamp of quality. You can't think of the elderly as being able to get that impression. Therefore, we need to have a spade-stick deeper in the issues of foot-treatment grants. Most importantly, patient safety is a priority for us in the Left. And, of course, there must also be security for our elderly people, which is why it is important that a study of the area is now being launched so that we can act on it if there is something that is not as it should be something that we can do better. Let me conclude by saying two things. After all, the Minister of Health has indicated that in 2021 the government is making a health proposal. I am curious to see whether health issues include improvements in foot treatment here too. Finally, the Left can support the text adopted by the Socialist rapporteur. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103939	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226103944	Thank you. These are wonderful new notes from the Left, and I am very pleased about this, because it was only just before the elections that the Left had the opportunity to make a very big health proposal itself, where this preventive treatment had not been taken by the foot therapists as a field of action either. And it is really, despite the fact that this is not a new debate; it is a debate that has been going on over and over again. But am I listening to the fact that in the future the Left is prepared to include dynamic effects associated with preventive treatment, so that we avoid the expensive treatments in the form of amputation by solving tasks such as foot care in time and thus avoiding foot ulcers that result in these very expensive treatments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104040	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Now, in the proposal for adoption, it says that Parliament must be involved in the study's task description, and I can tell you here that it has been a priority for me to include it in the proposal for adoption. Why has it been a priority? It has been because I think it is absolutely crucial that here we have a broad political influence on what kind of areas we want to dive into. And exactly what Kirsten Normann Andersen mentions here, namely the derived effects, I think would be a great thing to take along when we do the task description here. For it is absolutely essential that we now choose to tackle an area together, that we get it done as widely as possible, that every stone is turned and that all corners are involved, and that also applies to the derived effects. So I would think that would be a good task for the government, which has thus been passed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104135	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104137	Thank you. In fact, I also believe that this could mean having to look at the way in which the health services have been organised structurally. But we can do that at a later date. Compared to the extended health allowance and foot care, this is something I also tried to travel to the Minister for Employment back in 2019 in an attempt to create clarity in relation to how to get this supplement at all. Can you count on that? How hard can it be? And do you really have to go back and forth? And it was pointed out that this was something that had to be resolved under the context of the cohesion reform. Does the rapporteur agree with me that this is not really employment policy or social policy, but is health policy to be resolved in future health reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104228	I fully agree that we need to look at the way in which we have built up our health services in structural terms. That is also what we proposed with the proposal for a health reform, which we put forward and had a majority in favour of before the elections. Now there is a different majority, and I would be delighted if the government and the government's support parties also made a proposal on how we can structurally strengthen our health services so that patients receive even better treatment. That's what this question is really about. I know that in 2019 there was a dialogue with the former Minister for Employment. I did not sit at the table, so I do not know exactly what the dialogue was about, but I have listened to the fact that there has actually been dialogue with the foot therapists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104317	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104350	Thank you for that and also thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for putting the subject to debate. It is an important debate, also for the SF, about ensuring quality and patient rights for citizens. That is why I have also been sorry that the previous health ministers have not acted on this issue, even when I previously asked about extended health allowance for foot-treatment. It is now up to the Left to ensure that the citizens concerned are finally guaranteed the quality and patient rights of the treatment process from the reference to treatment. The current legislation is not in line with the requirements normally laid down in the Health Act or in the general and regional grants for foot-and-mouth treatment. Here there are requirements for authorisation by the practitioner, and the assessment of needs is based on medical knowledge. That is why we believe, first of all, in the SF, that the assessment of needs must be carried out by authorised health professionals with professional expertise to assess the real need for treatment and, in fact, also the consequences of non-treatment. Secondly, foot-treatment should be carried out exclusively by authorised therapists in order to ensure quality and patient rights. And this is not, as other rapporteurs have said, a matter of prioritising the authorised therapists at the expense of the footkeepers, but it does not say, but it does not matter; so there is no advantage there; it is simply a matter of getting a health assessment. Thirdly, we must also ensure that it is not the wallet that determines whether serious consequences of disease can be prevented. Fourthly, it should not be the citizen's responsibility to find out whether an outside-numbered therapist is authorised or not. Fifthly, there must be authorized therapists with enough outside numbers. And sixthly, the granting, application for grants and price must be affordable. In the short term, the changes will lead to increased expenditure. Danish therapists have calculated that we are talking about paltry 8 million. kr. However, it is nothing compared to the gains that the result of increased prevention will bring, also in relation to patients' rights and quality in treatment and coherence in health care. Healthcare is the public guarantee of requirements, quality and control of everything from education, hygiene, record keeping to patients' rights and patient replacement. It can have fatal consequences if vulnerable citizens do not receive the necessary foot treatment. For example, authorised foot therapists have the competence to diagnose and prevent diabetic foot ulcers, and vice versa, mistreatment or no treatment can result in amputation of the leg with all that results from loss of quality of life. For these reasons, we in the SF think it is right, very important, that we continue to work with preventive action, because prevention pays off and because it also increases the quality of life for patients. There is not much quality of life in waiting for a heavy patient in health care. And the SF also supports the adoption text that the Socialist rapporteur has already read out. I will look forward to the study, which I hope will also result in a good coherent course for patients who need foot treatment in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104739	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104745	Thank you to my colleague Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. I think we are very much in agreement and we have also been working on this area for very many years both. I have also done so in relation to previous governments and have asked a great many questions, because that is also what I hope the rapporteur agrees with, namely that this should be examined very carefully, also because there are many different considerations to take into account. The rapporteur himself mentions what it would cost extra if everyone went to a therapist; but there are also some problems in relation to how many treatments are offered. There is a very large difference between the municipality and the municipality. There is a difference between where you go and that is why I fully agree that it should be a therapist who does this treatment. However, the question is whether the rapporteur agrees with me that we will also have a look at how many times we can actually get subsidies to go to a treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104848	I fully agree that it would be worthwhile looking into this. So, for some chronic patients it doesn't make sense that you can apply for grants for one year and then you have to apply again if you remember. However, for other patients it may of course be that it is for a period of time you need the treatment. The most important thing for me is that it is authorised health professionals who help assess it and that it is authorised therapists who are involved in the treatment. Unfortunately, I have seen examples of patients who have applied for a foot therapist because it was prescribed by a doctor for preventive treatment of foot wounds, but who ended up in an unauthorized foot therapist, who unfortunately also did the damage. And that is really one of the reasons why I have come to take a great interest in this area where mistakes can be fatal and where the small mistake can actually mean the difference between keeping your leg or not. So this is not an indifferent area; therefore we have to take seriously that preventive action must be carried out by authorised personnel, who in turn are also covered by the Health Act, so that you can apply for compensation when mistakes occur, because sometimes that happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104958	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226104959	Well, I fully support the rapporteur's position on this. And I would say that it can be precisely when you get the whole area sketched out that it does not cost 8 million. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I look forward to being able to sit together and make some recommendations to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105025	I can't wait for that too. It is absolutely impossible to imagine that it can be cheaper to wait for amputation of a leg and subsequent animal home care than it is to do the preventive foot treatment, which is also less painful. So I look forward to it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105044	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105100	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for giving rise to this debate. I stand here today as a substitute for the radical health rapporteur, Stinus Lindgreen, who could not be here today. What I can say is that, like the other rapporteurs, we would like to deal with the foot-and-mouth procedure in good time and support the text of the adoption which has previously been read out. So, we would like to examine whether there are problems, what they look like, and then, of course, we would like to act on them once we have them properly defined. So the Radical Left supports the text of the adoption presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105131	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The Enhedslisten has already welcomed it, so that is why the next rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party is here. Welcome to sir. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105155	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for raising an important issue for debate here and then taking action on it. It is clear that all health care in the Danish public health service must of course be carried out by authorised personnel. This must be the case, and the aim must be to ensure that we are sure that it is authorised staff and that the things that lie in it are the safety of education and that there are also the rules of compensation that apply to other treatment. At the moment, I might see a challenge in that there will be patients who have been waiting for a very long time if it is the case that the foot nurses are being phased out, because I can see that there are actually quite long waiting times for the therapists in certain parts of the country. So there is a challenge there, but we also support the adoption text that has been presented and look forward to having it examined in relation to the challenges that may be facing health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105319	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105324	Thank you. It was in itself because the rapporteur mentioned it here that it may well be that we have a bottleneck problem in relation to having sufficient authorised therapists. However, it is the regions which have also recognised that foot nurses are given an external number to perform some of these tasks. Now I know that the rapporteur is also on a regional council. Perhaps the rapporteur also has a thought as to whether the price agreements in relation to authorised therapists are good enough in relation to the preventive action which the regions must also have a great interest in having carried out. Where does the problem arise when so few authorized therapists want to seek an outside number?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105412	Yes, I am not going to make a suggestion because I simply do not know what the reason is, but I can only say that when you go in and look, there are long waiting lists for the therapists. That is why it might also be felt that there was a need for this area to be equipped, if that is the case. But exactly what's the reason why no more outside numbers are being sought, I don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105438	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105439	But it could then be a theme that we should try to see if we could get to the bottom of finding out whether the agreements are simply good enough. We have a recruitment problem, a real recruitment problem, with regard to authorised therapists in relation to preventive action, which is of course so important for the budgets of the regions, because the lack of foot therapy will ultimately have a spill-over effect on the regional budget. So the priority of preventive treatment and also recruitment will be a theme here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105512-2	I fully agree with the rapporteur, but what the regions are funding are the authorised therapists. As I understand it, it is the municipalities that provide subsidies to the practitioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105534	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105600	Thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. It is sometimes the case with these questions that you sit and listen to a lot of good arguments and knowledge in a particular area and feel completely enriched in an area that you may not have already known so much about, so thank you for that. I think there have been a lot of good points along the way, and I also think we can all agree that the money should be spent the best possible way and benefit those who need it in the best possible way. Let those be the words from here, and I just want to say thank you for a really, really good debate with many good points.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105641	Thank you to the rapporteur for New Citizens, who also prepares the platform for the next speaker and thanks for doing so. Now I do not see any rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then I can welcome the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105715	Thank you for the floor, President. Once again, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party in particular for taking the initiative in this debate. I think we have come very well around the discussion, so I should not make my concluding remarks so long, but simply sum up the government's view on the employment side. It is the case that the rules in force must reconcile many considerations, and I think that they also succeed in doing so. But, of course, we must always be open to better regulation. Against this background, I look forward to further work on the subject, both the administrative simplification initiative and the identification of quality in this area. In the first place, however, I look forward to our being carried together as a society as safely as possible through this serious health crisis that has plagued us for almost a year. But, of course, I look forward to further work, among other things. the area we have been debating here today. I think that what appears to be possible in a joint text for adoption on the basis of this question debate is a very, very good starting point for further work. As I already mentioned in my opening remarks, we are quite open to examining whether there are indications of patient safety challenges in the scheme, and I also think that some very relevant considerations have been made both by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and also by the rapporteur of the SF about how much we as a society will be able to save if we are better able to prevent in general. This is true in this area as well as in other areas. So, with those words, I would like to conclude by thanking the Minister for Health once again for a good debate and then passing on the floor to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105918	That will be a moment, because there are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister for Employment. And that is first Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105926	I figured I'd take it from down here instead of going up to the very end of the platform and again bouncing off and doing this and pulling it out. Thank you for the debate. I hope that the Minister for Employment has brought some of these things, which we have been focusing on over the last few years and in relation to the challenges that are, both in terms of external numbers and in terms of clarifying the whole area, that is to say that it is something that will be taken over by the Ministry of Employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226105957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110002	The very short answer to that is that we want to do so quite clearly, and the text of the adoption, which is probably voted through by a very broad majority in the Folketing, will also require the government to investigate this area. I think that is the right thing to do, and I also think so after listening to the debate. I must be honest and admit that this is not an area in which I have worked very hard, so I am also wiser to listen to the debate. So I think it is quite clear that there are prospects in discussing these things further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110033	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110037	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for taking up the challenge of resolving it, and it makes sense that the Minister for Employment is also here. If nothing else, it could have been interesting to have the Minister of Equal Opportunities with us. But to avoid calling him into a new question debate, I would just like to point out that this is also about inequality in health, and inequality in health is a social problem. Precisely the cost of health care and preventive health care is of enormous importance to our long-term prevention options. So if there is a lack of material for the Minister of Gender Equality, it could be a good theme to take down. It is just an invitation to try to look at the user fee here. Whether there is a health supplement or not, it is costly for the chronic patient to have to bear this cost continuously.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110138	After all, we are not blind to the fact that those places in our health services where we have user charges are at risk of creating inequalities in health, and we have also seen lots of reports and studies pointing to a clear tendency to do so. This is something we are very aware of and we have tried to remedy it in many different places and in many different areas by adding to certain forms of treatment. What I have said in this debate is, of course, the question of why we are not saying from the outset that there is a very, very big problem here. After all, there is still a great deal to be done on the extended health allowance, but I think, on the other hand, that the points raised in the debate also require us to look at this issue without prejudice and that we in particular have examined whether there can be any patient safety challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110234	Then there is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110238	Thank you. Thank you for your reply. Rosen to the SF rapporteur I share a long way along the way, and I think that the SF's rapporteur, Kirsten Normann Andersen, asked a relevant question in relation to the derived effects of lack of or inadequate foot treatment. And now all of us here in the Folketing, together with the government, have to create a framework for the study to be undertaken. Is the Minister for Employment prepared to include an accurate study of the derived effects in that study?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110316	The question raised by the rapporteur is, after all, a general political issue on which I am very concerned in all respects when we talk about both economic policy and policy in individual areas. This is also one of the reasons why we have set up this Commission with Nina Smith in the lead, which will look at second-generation reforms and which will therefore have to look at what the actual benefits are from investing in people early on, what the actual benefits are socio-economically, that we are investing at an early stage in having a welfare society that offers sufficient opportunities, and whether we can better recognise long-term savings of early investment in the future. This is not, of course, the way in which we are operating fiscal policy to a large extent today. So I find the whole question incredibly interesting, which is why I do not wish to reject anything in advance, but it is of course a discussion that we must take together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110418	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110421	With all due respect and respect, I have no doubt that the Minister is doing a great many exciting things at the moment, but the Minister is not answering my question. Is the Minister inclined to include the derived effects in the study which a broad majority of the Folketing is going to adopt in a few days?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110441	I think I must be honest and say that I will have to return to Mrs Jane Heitmann about this, because I am not prepared for the extent of the study, how wide it will then be and what the consequences of it will be. Basically, I would just like to say that this is a question that I, as a minister and the government as a whole, am very concerned about. That is why we have set up this Commission to look at these so-called second generation reforms, which assess whether we can make long-term economic gains out of early investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110517	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. If the Minister would be kind enough to prepare the platform for his colleague, then in the meantime I can welcome the next minister, and that is the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110554	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for one, I think, constructive and good debate, in which what we are accused of does not happen very often, and it is probably also true that it does not happen so often, namely that there is listening to each other, that good ideas from various quarters of the Parliamentary Assembly are accepted, and that there is indeed also recognition and reflection on the various speeches made by the rapporteurs of the various parties who have been up here on the platform. As Minister for Health, I think that has been a pleasure to sit and witness, and I think that is a good thing for the work that lies ahead of us. But it also requires that something good should come of it, so we are all obliged to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110640	Thank you. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110646	Yeah, and I'm gonna do it again from down here so I don't have to go to the platform. I thank colleagues for a very good debate and, as the Minister for Health also says, it is nice that we can meet and listen to each other and actually agree on some things. It doesn't happen very often, and when that happens, we have to remember to be happy about it, because it's a good end of the week. However, I am also pleased that the two ministers take this into account and that we can look at it and hope that we will find the best solution for those citizens who have a problem. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110717	Thank you for that emphasis, because that is quite right. Now I was given such praise to the whole Danish Parliament, and it is very good that we can praise each other. But there is one thing that is important, and that is that there are these citizens who are experiencing these genes and who need the best help. And that is the whole point. So I totally agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110732	There is also a request for a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110736	Thank you. I also want to thank you for what I think may be the beginning of solving a problem that has been going on for a very, very long time. And I'm concerned that we're getting better at preventing instead of healing. Because that's just more quality of life. There is not much quality of life in ending up in bed with an amputated leg. But it's about being able to prevent it and knowing that you always have the opportunity and the resources to take good care of your feet so you don't end up in that situation, despite being a chronic patient. And I'm just gonna keep addressing that preventive action. Perhaps even more emphasis could have been placed on this in the text of the adoption, and I also take it into account in the further work and hope that the Minister is also prepared for this to be something that we will have with us, including in the future work on health reform. Preventive action will also save on the long track.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110837	Yes, exactly, and I think it is a very, very good text for adoption, with which a broad Parliament has now indicated their agreement. But when I think it's so good, it's just that it doesn't say it directly because this is a significant step towards achieving what we really need, namely more equality in health; a fight with that inequality in health. And we cannot do that if we are not better at prevention. And that is where we need to do much more in relation to stronger prevention. Because we can see that when it comes to chronic patients, i.e. those who do not get prevented in time, there is a huge social battle side, and that is exactly where we are, and that is what we can see here. And I fully agree: it can also be good for the Treasury. And it will certainly be good for the individual and sure to be good for the struggle we have against the inequality in health that we are struggling with in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226110938	Thank you to the Minister for Health. Then there were no further brief comments to the Minister for Health. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the motion for a resolution will be postponed until Tuesday 2 March, as I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111015	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111029	Thank you. We need a lot of renewable energy, green power, green heat, green gas, etc., and this is a development that we are already well under way and which we must continue to support and promote. That's the purpose of this bill. Specifically, the bill contains a number of elements that contribute to achieving our own climate target of 70%. as well as the EU climate targets by 2030. Firstly, the legislative proposal allows the implementation of the EU Renewable Energy Directive on increased use of renewable energy sources. That is what is needed. Secondly, the bill allows the implementation of our broad political agreement to introduce sustainability requirements for wood biomass into our energy consumption. We agree that there is a very large difference between wood biomass and that is why we need to make sure that the wood biomass we use for energy in Denmark is as sustainable as possible. That is the first step. Work has already been started to look at possible phasing out of the wood biomass. Thirdly, the draft law allows us to introduce requirements for sustainability of, among others. agricultural biomass such as straw used in the energy sector. This must help to ensure that the biomass coming from agriculture is also properly grown. Fourthly, the bill makes it possible to set requirements for the integration of renewable energy into the transport sector, including the implementation of the CO2 Green Conversion of our transport sector is important and we need to have more renewable energy into our transport sector. It's gonna be possible with this bill. Fifthly, we ensure that it is possible for citizens, businesses and local authorities to participate in renewable energy communities in the same way as we adopted the rules for citizens' energy communities in December. Sixthly, we are extending the possibility of establishing guarantee systems of origin for gas, heat and cooling for renewable energy sources in the same way as the existing guarantee system of origin operates for electricity from renewable energy sources. Today, we are close to producing non-supportable renewable energy, but we are not there yet. Guarantees of origin or so-called green certificates help to reduce the need for support for renewable energy, and this is also the intention of the system we are proposing for gas, heat and cooling. With the bill, several producers of renewable energy will be able to request guarantees of origin and thereby document their green production. Finally, the draft law will allow the Minister to facilitate the authorisation process for the establishment of renewable energy installations, among others. setting deadlines for the administration's proceedings and a number of minor amendments to the implementation of the VE Directive. The green transition that we are in requires us to make high demands on the sustainability of the energy sources we use, to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions of energy sources and to demand that we continue to promote the development of our renewable energy sources. With this bill, we are pressing a whole series of buttons that contribute to this very thing, and that is why the Social Democratic Party is backing the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111324	There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111336	Thanks for the speech. After all, we are here to discuss two legislative proposals, and I wonder whether we can make some adjustments to these legislative proposals so that we can help the government to count to 20 more and come to the conclusion that it is realistic to reach 20 million. When I look at this bill and look at how to sum up the climate and environmental consequences, it doesn't fill much, and it's a little hard to say that this bill really is moving. I think that it bears a little too much emphasis on the fact that there is some EU implementation that we must then implement in Denmark, and then you change some legislative text, and then you suddenly have a bill of 300 pages, without moving it wildly. So I want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will not be involved in a process in committee to see if we can turn up the ambition of getting more renewable energy that the rapporteur had in his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111433	It is true that this is a legislative proposal that contains a great deal and that it is a technical legislative proposal, but the joy of working with an area like climate is that there is a lot of that too. After all, we will always be discussing how to move closer to the goal that we have set ourselves together. That is why I think we should continue to have an ongoing discussion. I think that, in a good way, we have about the vast majority of the proposals we make. And that's what we can have about this, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111500	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111503	I think it is really bad when legislative proposals are so long and it is not clear that it brings good results. I would like it to be more specific. How do we get, for example? more solar cells up in the housing associations? And there is a hearing answer in which they clearly say that it is not this bill that ensures it. So I would very much like, together with the rapporteur, to look carefully at whether there is something we can adjust a little, to make it easier and better for everyone to be involved in the sustainable transformation. Does the rapporteur see that it may be a noble intention to try to secure it in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111534	I see at all times that I and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen can put us together and look at how we can together make sure that we push on even more in the green transition. I see nothing to prevent us from doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111544	There is a request for a further brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111550	Conservatives are interested in the fact that the measures we are taking globally have an effect on the climate. One of the things I think there is broad agreement on in the Folketing is that Denmark's use of biomass is too large to be truly sustainable, at least in the long run. And there are two elements to the present draft law, which I think we should also discuss in committee in the further work. One is that biomass still has the possibility of being imported bypassing these permit systems. There are some limits in relation to when you can import. An importer can avoid certification if he imports less than 20,000 tonnes of biomass per year, and that is a relatively high limit. Does the rapporteur have a comment on this? The second element is that biomass can also be covered by guarantees of origin, and is it appropriate to include imported biomass in guarantees of origin in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111704	The continuation of the existing system is appropriate in the interests of the industries and of the actors and, at the same time, lowers the state support need for renewable energy development. In relation to the further comments made by the questioner, I know that this is also something that the Minister has taken note of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111722	Sir. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111725	Then I will look forward to asking the Minister exactly the same question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111732	There will then be no further brief comments to the rapporteur, and if the rapporteur would be kind enough to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur, that is fine. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226111757	Thank you for the floor. Denmark is part of Europe and part of the European Union, and we are very pleased about that in the Left. This means that we have agreed to binding European cooperation, and of course we honour that cooperation. Against this background, of course, the Left supports the implementation of the VE directive into Danish legislation, not only because we have to, but because we basically believe that the directive leads to a number of improvements to the current rules. At the same time, the Left complies with the agreements we are making, and that is why the political agreement on sustainability requirements for wood biomass, which we adopted in October 2020 and from which this bill comes in part, must, of course, also be made a reality. The short of the long term is that it is important that Denmark also gives its part to counter climate change. There's nothing else we can be familiar with. That is why we made the agreement on sustainability requirements at the time, and now it has to be implemented. However, there is part of the bill that we cannot support, and this is about the green conversion of road transport. This is not because we disagree with the purpose. We also think that we should have road transport converted, but, having said that, we must say that we cannot support that part of the legislative proposal, and this is solely because the way it is financed is unfair. After all, there are 2 million Danes who own a car, and that car does not necessarily have to be replaced by an electric car right now. They will carry a relatively large part of the bill. That is why we are asking for the bill to be split into two. We cannot help taxing car owners as hard as part of the contractual basis for this bill, and that was a basis for agreement which, for good reasons, the Left was not part of. We hope that we can be both recorded and noted. So we are asking for L 148 to be divided into two parts, so that the part dealing with the agreement on the green conversion of road transport is separated and treated separately. As far as the other part of the draft law is concerned, we are very much in favour. We have noted that a number of the organisations that have responded to the consultation have a number of concerns that the Left shares and that we believe we should take seriously. Take, for example, the Danish Forest Association in their assessment and criticism of the definition of forest residues. The association is right. There are, among other things: a 20-centimeter requirement, and if we are to plant beech forest in the future in Denmark, it will last approx. 100 to 150 years before the beech forest is finished. The person who owns a beech forest has an economic advantage in selling the tree when you pour out the forest, and therefore it plays a crucial role for the future forestry and the economy of it, that we find out how this is going to be. So with regard to the burdens on Danish business in the current situation, I think we should pay attention to them. In negotiating and implementing things, it is important for the Left that we pay attention to these things. Fortunately, we have identified most of the knots and concerns in the previous negotiations, while at the same time ensuring that the proposal does not have negative consequences, for example. for those interbranch organisations that have made their nervousness known. We hope that we will have any new concerns discussed in committee. So allow me to sum up: as a starting point, the Left supports the part of the proposal that does not arise from the agreement on the green transition of road transport, but we support the rest with few exceptions. This is because the Left is a green party that values the climate, that the Left is a European party that values international cooperation and, finally, that the Left is a reliable party that values respect for the agreements we conclude. With a division and a number of small changes, it should therefore be possible for the Left to support the bill here without compromising on the values that we value. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112233	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112240	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. As I think we had a question debate about a displacement requirement for transport just over a year ago, it was clear to me that the Left clearly supported a displacement requirement in relation to renewable fuels, and that is why I just have to hear: when the Left cannot support that part of the bill, it is an expression of a change of attitude, or what should we interpret it as? Left still wants a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112314	We will certainly do so and, as I said clearly in the rapporteur's speech, it is only the funding that means that we were not included in that agreement. We want the room for manoeuvre to help carry something, not just the drivers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112326	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112330	Thank you for that clear statement. It was just important to find out exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112337	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Could the rapporteur please prepare for the next rapporteur so that there is just the spriting and the complete clarity? The next rapporteur is clear, and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112408	Thank you. An important element of this bill is that it is proposed to continue with the current system of guarantees of origin for renewable energy, that is, what we broadly call green certificates. This is good as a starting point, because with guarantees of origin, the RE producers will have the opportunity to earn a profit which will make them less dependent on state subsidies. We will therefore have more green energy for the subsidies available. Everyone should be able to see an advantage in that. It also means that we can push for renewable energy in the long term to be able to do without support, and that is something we in the Danish People's Party are at least very concerned about. That is why we can support the continuation of the system and thus support the legislative proposal. But that does not mean, of course, that there are no problems. We are increasingly seeing companies marketing themselves as green and it can be difficult for consumers to understand when one company is more green than the other. Apparently, there's a great desire to buy a climate-goodwill if I can use the term that the President uses through many different systems, despite the fact that we have one of the greenest energy consumption in the world. In short, therefore, we need to help consumers a little more on the way. We need to be able to see through the system of guarantees of origin and all the other green systems that are on the climate indulgence market, as I would call it. And I am aware that the Minister is now proposing to initiate initiatives to strengthen consumer information in relation to guarantees of origin. But we in the Danish People's Party also see a need for us to do something more generally about consumer information in the green area, so that we avoid an increasing tendency to jewelry with borrowed feathers, i.e. what we again call greenwashing with an English expression. With the bill, we also implement the political agreement on sustainability requirements for wood biomass, which we made last October and of which the Danish People's Party is a part, not because we got it completely, as we would like to do, it is rare if we do not have 90 mandates, but because it is good, after all, that we now have some clarity as to what we require of the biomass used at the heating plants and at home in the individual Dane's pellet pine. We still believe that with the agreement we are unnecessarily tightening the screw. We must remember that Denmark, with the agreement, is going to impose considerably more stringent requirements on the biomass that we use than the rest of the countries of the European Union, and that, in fact, puts Danish purchasers of biomass at a disadvantage in the international market, and it can inevitably put themselves, if not much, yet slightly in the prices of the heat customers. Nevertheless, we are in the agreement on the basis of the good principle that Danish energy policy is simply too important to leave in the hands of the socialists, even if the voters have chosen to put together a parliament where there is a massive red majority. Therefore, in the Danish People's Party we bite on the edge of the table and pull in a good, clever bourgeois direction. Sometimes it is possible to take a proper HIV, or rather pull things a lot in a right direction.I usually appear very, very consistent when it comes to marijuana control; it is simply too crazy sometimes it is a little smaller, but everything else is a better deal than it would otherwise have been. That is why we can support this agreement overall. However, I would just like to agree with the Left that it would be nice if the government would make the division of the bill, as Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer said that those parts of the law which refer to the agreement on the transport sector would be separated, so that we, who are not part of that agreement, are not, of course, forced to vote in favour. It is also the only wormwood I can immediately find in the cup on the basis of the assumptions given. Thank you for that, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112842	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112848	This is a very short question: is Denmark's use of biomass sustainable?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112859	Yeah, I think so. Denmark is also an absolute pioneer in this area. So, yes, I am very pleased with the biomass use that we have in cogeneration plants and also in private.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112910	Sir. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112913	But biomass shuts down just as much CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226112920	No. I mean, what distinguishes biomass from biomass, for example. oil is, and now I speak so freely from memory, that the dinosaurs died out for such 60 million. years ago about, I mean, and there has of course been some CO2 so what is the challenge of coal and oil is that you release some CO2 which is why I think it's okay to use biomass. CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210226113003	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226113017	The bill here implements a number of political agreements which are a step forward in relation to renewable energy and the green transition. Among other things: sustainability requirements for biomass have been introduced • a proposal that SF has fought for come on the table and on which we now have a broad agreement here at Christiansborg. It is absolutely crucial that these sustainability requirements for biomass are now entering Danish law. In addition, the draft law also implements another important proposal for SF, namely a displacement requirement in relation to renewable fuels for the transport sector. A CO2 is being implemented at the same time as a major EU directive implementing both the implementation of RES communities to promote citizens' commitment to the green transition, and the continuation and establishment of rules on guarantees of origin. For SF to see, the bill lays down a good regulation on guarantees of origin. What is important is that you can see from the certificate whether it is part of supported RE production or in unaided VE production, and that certificates of origin can help to promote the production of VE here in Denmark. There is no doubt that we in Denmark have a challenge with green marketing, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also mentioned the problem that it is not always easy for consumers to understand exactly when something is really green and when it is a little communication department green. It is a general problem that we must address here in the Folketing. For SF it is good to see that the bill also takes the initiative for more consumer information on VE certificates, but basically we need to strengthen green marketing legislation not only for guarantees of origin and VE certificates, but in general. Overall, SF is backing this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226113254	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is why we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. While the SF's rapporteur prepares the platform, I can welcome the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226113318	Thank you. Radical Left can also support the bill. It is, after all, an implementation of the directive in relation to the VE II directive. At the same time, the proposal ensures sustainability requirements for biomass, including on straw, and we will have a displacement requirement for biofuels in the transport sector as a principle. We're really happy about that. The draft law will also ensure that green certificates are spread to other places than where we currently have them. It's beneficial. In other words, there are a number of excellent and fine improvements to the draft law. We look forward to voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226113358	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. That is why it is good that the next rapporteur is being spritted and prepared. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226113420	It is, after all, a comprehensive legislative proposal, and on such a day, when the Climate Council has just come up with an assessment of the government's efforts so far in the area of climate change, I think there is good reason, as well as considering whether there are not some things in this bill that we could adjust to and thus help the government to get closer to the 20 million reduction. t in 2030. The government has come to 7.2 million. It is a long way to go, and we would very much like to help the government to come up with a good plan in September so that we can solve the climate problems together. Overall, I think it is important that we in Denmark have popular support for renewable energy, and if you look at what happens, I am somewhat concerned. In the solar field, we see those giant field plants, and I understand that a landlord in a generation change thinks it's smart to take half the land and set up solar cells, which can then stand there for the next 30-40 years. I can understand it, but it just creates so much resistance out there. So in the solar field I do not think we have the right solutions and we do not make sufficient use of the flat roofs in Denmark. It is good that the draft law specifies how long the municipal processes should be. This can provide clarity for those actors who want to boost renewable energy. At the same time, however, it must also be recognised that these are quite large facilities and that they are not always without problems and without dialogue. I think that some criticism has been raised about these guarantees of origin and the extent to which double support should be obtained, and I note that there are different opinions on this in the hearings. I also believe that in the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply we will have some deputies who will explain what they think. When I look at page 45 of the bill, I think that the climate and environmental benefits of this bill are rather small, and I find that disappointing. Could we not turn up some of the schemes that are? It is actually okay if you make voluntary over-implementation of EU requirements, so I think we should look at whether there is nothing here that we can do better in the legislative proposal. When I look at the parts that have to do with promoting VE communities and look at for example. BL's hearing answer, I can see that they are quite critical of the fact that neither what we recently adopted in relation to citizens' energy communities nor VE communities seems to be something that leads to more solar cells coming up in housing associations, and I think that is really a pity. I would like us to come to the conclusion that we in Denmark have some conditions that make it attractive to use the flat roofs, and I am really sure that there are many housing associations that would like to be part of the sustainable conversion and that would like to use the flat roofs that are there. There the consultation answer here says very clearly that it is not going to happen as a VE energy community, which could otherwise be a good solution, where you use the flat roofs of a housing association and then have a community with some surrounding settlements, so you use the renewable energy from the flat roofs. It doesn't bother anyone, unlike some people who think that it bothers them if you have large field facilities in the countryside. So I think this is a subject in which we need to find better solutions. I also note that there are some players who are in the process of getting more coastal mills up and who think they are running into too many barriers. I am, in fact, sensitive to if it is the case that we can find better rules for those projects. So a process in committee in which we are considering whether over-implementation by voluntary means could be a solution, I think could be very good. In this bill there is some definition about sustainable biomass, and we are still away there in the Enhedslisten, where we think we have an energy sector in Denmark that imports too much biomass. And it is fine that we get some of the worst sorted out, but we are not at all at the solution, and we look forward to the report that will uncover how to reduce the use of biomass in our heat supply. Overall, the Enhedslisten is for this bill, but we would like to do better, and would like to do so in cooperation with the government. So if there is something here where you could say that we would like to overimplement voluntarily, then we are quite open to going down that track to promote more renewable energy and to promote that there are more players, for example. housing associations which can be part of the sustainable conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226113918	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Egil Hulgaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226113947	Thank you, Madam President. This draft law is a collection of at least three different energy elements: on the one hand, sustainable biomass and, as a follow-up to the 2020 climate agreement, is a follow-up to the agreement on sustainability requirements for biomass from October 2020 and, on the other hand, on greenhouse gas displacement requirements in the political agreement of 4 December on road transport concluded outside the Conservative People's Party, and on the other hand, an element on the system of guarantee of origin. There is broad agreement that the use of biomass must be increasingly sustainable. It is clearly a good thing that the requirements for sustainable biomass are being tightened up. The question is whether the form of the proposal is good enough. Conservatives have asked questions about the sustainability of biomass. The stricter requirements are made taking into account security of supply. Denmark is too heavily dependent on imported biomass to meet our heat needs, and for example. Concito argues that restrictions on waste incineration capacity through reductions in waste imports, as agreed in the waste agreement of June 2020, will lead to increased incineration of imported biomass. The fact that we are tightening up the requirements for biomass so that they can flee with the European Union and move forward further on the basis of a political agreement is a good thing, but it is not good if we increase our dependence on imported biomass in the short term, because we are reducing too quickly the possibility of creating heat from imported waste. It is just as harmful, if not more harmful, to replace unsustainable imported biomass with imported waste which otherwise could end up in a landfill in Italy. We have therefore asked questions about the wisdom of an importer importing 20 000 tonnes of wood pellets bypassing the stricter requirements and whether it is conducive to offering guarantees of origin based on imported wood pellets. On the other hand, we should focus on making optimum use of the residual biomass we have in Denmark and not placing more bureaucratic obstacles in the way than is necessary, as the Left also indicated. We also agree with the Left that the political agreement on the conversion of road transport should be dealt with separately. It is not right that we should vote against the overall proposal as it stands because we do not want to approve the financing agreement concluded by the government with the left in the transport sector. We are of course in favour of increased demands on CO2 from Conservatives, so we would like to ask, as the Left has also proposed, for the proposal to be split into two. The bill provides for extended possibilities for issuing guarantees of origin, including the use of surplus heat, and it all heats up. The draft law also envisages continuing to follow the practice we have had so far to allow guarantees of issuing and origin for both supported and unsupported RE projects. We support this on the part of Conservatives. We need the stability offered by the current system, just as we need to maintain the current incentive structure. In the long term, but not right now, we should be discussing the appropriateness of pursuing that practice, and in time the system can therefore be developed and refined, for example. in the form of hourly guarantees of origin. Again, it is not conducive to issuing VE guarantees of origin on the basis of imported biomass. We simply do not believe that these imports are sustainable in the long run, and I believe that the Folketing agrees fairly well on this. It would be a pity to say that the word guarantee of origin is a possession of the people. It wasn't the year's word in 2020, and it probably won't be the fucking apology in 2021 either. There is a need to strengthen communication about the concept in order to ensure popular support, to ensure the demand and value of certificates, and thus to do what we would like to see guarantees of origin do, namely to obtain more investments in green electricity. In those words, the Conservative People's Party looks forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226114408	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, who stands by a fresh and drunken platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226114429	Thank you. The bill concerns the amendment of the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy, the Biofuels Act, the Natural Gas Supply Act and other VE laws. The purpose of the bill is, inter alia, to: implementing the majority of the 2018 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. The draft law concerns the use of wood biomass for electricity and heat and provisions concerning the permit process for renewable energy installations, the extension of the system of guarantees of origin for energy from renewable energy sources and the integration of renewable energy into the transport sector. In addition, the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply shall be authorised to lay down detailed requirements for the integration of renewable energy into the transport sector, including greenhouse gas displacement requirements and requirements for the use of bio and renewable fuels. The draft law will extend the existing authorisation to the Minister to set requirements for compliance with sustainability criteria and criteria for greenhouse gas emission saving as a condition for receiving support for the use of, inter alia: biogas and solid biomass, so that the Minister can also lay down equivalent requirements for the non-supported use of biomass fuels and biofuels for energy purposes. The draft law will also give the Minister authority in relation to VE communities, to lay down detailed rules that will facilitate the authorisation process for the establishment of renewable energy installations, and rules on guarantees of origin for renewable electricity from renewable energy sources, as well as amendments to the CO2 law are therefore very comprehensive. This gives the Minister a number of powers and the economic consequences are unknown, as it depends on the actual implementation of the powers. The hearings are also wide-ranging. Here, out of a lot can be found among others. mentioned that Dansk Energi writes that deadlines and legal certainty for VE developers are unclear in the bill in relation to reality today. It is important that, in future, RES operators of particularly smaller energy plants should experience a less complex and more transparent licensing process. The processing times for the authorisations covered by the VE scheme following the description in the consultation version should be kept well below the two-year deadline referred to in the draft law. The two years must be maximum in order to ensure a smooth and fair procedure for new applications for RES installations. I note that among other things. Better Energy considers it problematic that it is not fully established yet whether the market for guarantees of origin has a real impact on CO2 L 148 also concerns a revision of the Biofuels Act. There are so many details and technicalities in this review. In view of the above, New Citizens are initially curious, but sceptical in relation to L 148, and New Citizens look forward to committee reading and will take a position on the bill in this regard. And then we can also support the proposal that has been made by several rapporteurs to divide the bill into two. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226114749	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And can I ask the rapporteur to prepare the platform for the next speaker, who is the Minister, because I do not see a rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance present. We are therefore ready to welcome the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226114821	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The aim of the bill is to promote the use of renewable energy. This is a development that we are already well under way. Today, Denmark receives approximately half of its electricity consumption with green electricity from wind, biomass and solar, and the projections show that Denmark's electricity consumption already in 2027 will be more than 100 per cent. covered with renewable energy. With the Climate Agreement for Energy and Industry on 22 June 2020, Denmark reaffirmed its role as a frontrunner in renewable energy solutions that contribute to creating a climate-neutral future. With the Energy Agreement, we will begin a new era in the development of renewable energy in Denmark and Europe, which will ensure a continued ambitious expansion with green energy, including plans for the world's first energy islands and a significant commitment to the green technologies of the future. With a broad political agreement on 4 February this year, the framework for the energy island in the North Sea is now in place. Thus, the cornerstone of the green transition is laid and the largest construction project in Denmark is a decisive step further. The legislative proposal, which is under discussion today, is intended to implement the EU directive on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. This will support Denmark's further journey towards the green transition of e.g. the energy sector, the EU commitments under the Paris Agreement and the EU 2030 climate and renewable energy targets. With the bill, we are taking an important step in terms of the sustainability of biomass. I am pleased that we can now implement the agreement we reached in the autumn to set legal requirements for the sustainability of biomass, wood biomass, for energy. This must help to ensure that the biomass used is as sustainable as possible. In the long term, I believe that we need much less biomass for energy than is the case today. However, in many cases we are not yet where we have other fully-wide alternatives to coal, which must be phased out as soon as possible. In addition, the legislative proposal will also introduce requirements for the sustainability of agricultural biomass for energy. For example: the straw we use on the plants is required to be cultivated in a climate-friendly manner. In the field of transport, a number of authorisations are proposed to ensure the timely and smooth implementation of the transport articles of the directive. These powers also make it possible to implement policy agreements on future regulation in this area by means of a notice. This means, among other things, that CO2 I also take note of the desire for a division of the draft law in the field of transport. As a starting point, I will not oppose this if that is what is needed in order to deal constructively with the legislative proposal. In addition, the draft law also contains other key elements. First of all, the provisions of the directive on RES communities are being implemented, which means that it will be possible for citizens, businesses and municipalities to participate in communities, such as: can produce and share renewable energy. Secondly, the possibility of obtaining guarantees of origin is extended to include gas, heat and cooling from renewable sources in addition to electricity. This will enable consumers to demand more green energy and give producers the opportunity to obtain an extra income from the sale of guarantees of origin. This can reduce the need for support in future tenders. Thirdly, new rules will be introduced which will facilitate the authorisation process in connection with the establishment of renewable energy installations.The bill will therefore support Denmark's ambitious green transition and thus Denmark's strong international brand as a leading country in energy and climate. Finally, I would like to thank you for your interest in the draft law and I look forward to the committee's examination of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115222	Thank you, Minister. There are a few requests for brief remarks to the Minister, and the first is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115228	Thank you. Such a big bill here on the day the Climate Council has come and has said that the government needs to do something more to achieve the Climate Act's 70% reduction targets. towards 2030, of course, gives me reason to wonder whether we can't help the government make this bill even better. When I see what there is of consultation answers, among other things. on what concerns these RE communities and reads the hearing answer from BL, which concludes that it is not this law and the new rules for VE communities that make it possible to set up something that is jointly established with a neighboring building that they will continue to create small solar installations, then I think it is really a pity. When the Minister says that Denmark is the frontrunner for the promotion of renewable energy, then I think that we need to become a frontrunner in exploiting the flat roofs in Denmark. Can the Minister not see that we need better arrangements to ensure that housing associations can help to raise solar cells to a greater extent?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115335	I have to admit, I'm not quite sure that I understand the connection to that with the Climate Council's report and then the flat roofs. I believe that most people, including the Climate Council, recognise that Denmark is quite a long way from renewable energy expansion and that we are a pioneering country in that area and that we are turning 100 percent green in the electricity sector in 2027 is a huge step forward. Having said that, we have to see in committee whether there are things that can be done in the direction of what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen proposes, in relation to the communities for which opportunities are now being improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115415	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115419	When I read that consultation answer, I ask myself whether the law complies with the VE directive on VE communities in the way it is formulated in Denmark, and I actually think it would be nice to have it unveiled. And also to find out how it is that we do it a little better, so that we get to the finish with the flat roofs in Denmark being exploited. We are, after all, where we have so many flat roofs that it would be sensible to use them much more, rather than our agricultural land, which is currently being used for some rather large plants. We could use our flat roofs, and that is where I think we need a solution, and that is what I would like to pursue and like to do with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115455	I would very much like to be involved in pursuing this, especially if there is concern about whether we are even complying with the VE directive. Of course we think we do, and our lawyers think we do, but of course we want to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115458	The next brief remark is to Mr. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115511	Thank you and thank you for the words, Minister. You were also told in your introduction that Denmark uses too much biomass and that consumption must be significantly reduced, and I very much welcome that. What I am interested in is whether this agreement adequately regulates and tightens the requirements for biomass. I asked the previous rapporteur a few questions about this. However, what is also involved is our discussion on the waste agreement, where we can see from some of the presentations we have received that limiting the import of waste leads to increased use of biomass. Does the Minister think this is appropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115552	Well, I think I have to, like the one who sits at the table at the negotiations and just trying to bring all the parties together in that agreement, just to start by saying the rather boring thing. And the rather boring thing, of course, is that now we are about to implement an agreement we have just made, and now it has to be made into legislation. Fortunately, the rapporteur's party is included in the agreement. So, of course, I am not standing here on the platform and running away from it the first time we have to discuss its implementation. So, as a starting point, I am very pleased with the agreement we have made. Having said that, I think we are in complete agreement on where we are going. This is a big step in the right direction, so now we have legal requirements that ensure that we have stricter requirements than the rest of Europe in this area, and for example. If you use wood from forests, you have to ensure that the carbon stock in that forest is constant and that you prefer to use waste wood, for example. garbage from timber production and stuff like that. So it is a big step in the right direction. Having said that, however, we are all concerned, or at least many of us, with the fact that we have to phase out biomass altogether. And that is the purpose. And there are clearly some complexities, also in relation to what needs to be done when we are going to reduce the capacity of our incineration of waste. What is merely saying is that burning waste, especially because of the high plastic fraction, is even worse than compared to biomass.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115715	Sir. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115718	Thank you. And then I can see from some of the answers that we get that reference is made to countries of origin when it comes to sustainability certificates, and then we are like that. I am interested in the future, and one of the technologies of the future is carbon capture. Would the Minister agree that if the guarantees of origin do not cover carbon capture today, then it should do so in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115746	I do not think I am ready to reply to that now, because it must also be seen in the context of the CCS strategy that we will have to draw up and which we will have to discuss with the parties in a very short time, here next month. However, it is clear that we need to see things in context, also in relation to the issue that the rapporteur had just before about biomass. It's starting to get really interesting when you can connect biomass with carbon capture, because then it's negative emissions. Well, it's starting to get really interesting, and that's of course some of what we need to bring.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115816	The next brief remark is to Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115822	In the Left we have the view that the green transition does not have to be too expensive. We have the view that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane. Does the Minister agree that in the initiatives we take, for example: In the case of solar cells, does the cost also play a role in relation to the green conversion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115845	I certainly agree with that, and I am actually quite happy with the developments we are seeing in these years, when we are, of course, moving towards an ever-increasing proportion of our renewable energy production being free of aid. Of course, this has only happened because we have been supporting it for many years, so that we have been able to develop the market, develop technology and so on. Fortunately, we are on our way there. Then, of course, it is about supporting the other places where you may not yet be where it can be done on market conditions, for example. CCS technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115919	Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115922	I'm glad. And when I ask the question, it is, among other things, on the basis that we see that development in the solar cells. When you use large parks that are non-supportable and do not use the rooftops, it is probably a matter of costs. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he could be the initiator of some regulation of how solar parks in the landscape are being implemented. Today it is only on municipal initiative and approval.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226115959	There is no doubt that we will be looking at the PV sector here during the spring. That is not just the question that is being raised here. That is also the question that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen left. We need to ensure that things are consistent. Of course, this also has to be seen in the context of the electrification strategy we're going to do: where are we going to produce the electricity? Where is it produced as best it can? So, yes, this is definitely something we want to be involved in looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226120029	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226120047	The debate is open. The first to speak is the rapporteur of the Social Democrat Party, Mr President. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226120126	I think I will avoid re-reading the title of the bill and instead go ahead with my speech. We will not achieve our ambitious climate target if we focus only on getting more renewable energy. We need to save on the energy that we are using now and that we need in the future. For energy efficiency improvements are important for both saving greenhouse gas emissions and costs of conversion. We made that clear with the climate agreement for energy and industry, and with this bill we are implementing, among other things. parts of that agreement. The draft law will make it clear clearly from the law on the promotion of energy savings that the contribution to energy efficiency efforts must also ensure reductions in the use of fossil energy sources. This means that we make it clear that subsidies for energy efficiency improvements are targeted at the phasing out of black energy. With the bill, we will ensure the future legal basis for the execution of the business pool, which we have agreed in the conciliation circle behind the climate agreement for energy and industry. In addition, we also provide better opportunities to allocate subsidies to companies' energy saving projects, so that the grant is no longer limited by energy saving projects in process energy. This means that it will be possible to subsidise the energy savings efforts of companies which relate to more than just manufacturing processes. Next, the bill provides opportunities for the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to change the name of the Energy Savings Council administratively. It is already the case that the appointment of the chairman and members of the Energy Savings Council takes place administratively, and with the bill the naming will follow the same practice. The Minister has suggested that the name of the Council should be changed to the Energy Efficiency Conversion Council. The change must reflect the strengthening of the work of the Energy Savings Council and emphasise the importance of energy efficiency improvements for the green transition. Furthermore, the draft law will implement an amendment to the Building Directive from 2018. In order to meet this, we need to ensure that the beneficiaries of public support for energy-efficient renovations of buildings meet one or more criteria to support as many energy saving potentials as possible. With the legislative proposal, we propose that the concrete implementation of the criteria will be made by means of a notice. The last part of the draft law provides for a postponement of the deadline for the request for the payment of subsidies under the RE to the process system in cases where a grant has already been committed. The deadline shall be changed from 31 December 2021 to 31 December 2023 in order to ensure that all projects which have received an undertaking are implemented. The draft law will generally help us in a greener direction by encouraging more energy savings in the household, industry and construction sectors. Social democracy therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226120400	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Left, and he is the rapporteur. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226120427	Thank you for the floor. I have promised to say that what I am saying here now applies to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Nor will I read out the title, and bearing in mind that it is Friday, I shall also refrain from saying what the law is about, because that was quite well said by the previous rapporteur. In the Left, we are of the opinion that we must of course also save energy to the extent possible, and that is why we support the initiatives contained in the legislative proposal. Our approach is, of course, also that we are in favour of ensuring that those companies that set the process in motion and may not be quite ready actually receive their subsidies, even if they are not ready for some deadline, which may be a little narrow. So we support that too. Overall, we think that these are sensible proposals that will benefit Denmark's climate policy and maintain the focus on the 70-percent objective in the climate area. The Left can support bill, just as the Danish People's Party can support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226120546	Thank you, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer. Could the rapporteur please prepare the platform for the next speaker. We have noted the greeting from the Danish People's Party. That is why it is now the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Signe Munk. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226120621	The core of the proposal here is a follow-up to a political agreement on support for energy saving and, as mentioned in the consultation answers, there is a serious need for us in Denmark to take steps in relation to using our energy more efficiently. Buildings must be renovated as well as energy savings in industry. Energy saving is an important element in the green transition, because it is of course important to produce more green electricity, but it must also be used wisely. This is economically sensible, because we are saving some money on the cables that must either lie in the ground or hang in the air, but also because of the many solar cells and wind turbines that need to be built. In addition, there is also the good advantage of energy saving that it not only promotes the climate and the environment, but also has good effects on indoor climates, on health and on the quality of the buildings we have. And then it is important that the industry converts as much of the production as possible into power and saves energy when they use fossil fuels, and of course also comes onto other green gases. The SF is pleased with the bill, which we naturally support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226120743	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226120757	Thank you. Well, I'll be brief on this Friday too. Radical Left supports the bill. The cheapest energy is, of course, the one we do not use, and it is also the greenest energy. There is therefore a legal basis here in the proposal to translate the business pool so that we can support something other than manufacturing when it comes to energy savings in industry. We are in that agreement and, of course, we support the legislation that comes here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226120824	Thank you. There are no comments. The next one is sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226120842	Thank you. We support the draft law, which is the implementation of an agreement that we are part of. If you look at what is the potential for energy savings, you can say that we are not in the target yet. In other words, there are huge energy savings to be sought out in all parts of the business world. There are also public buildings, and whether it is such an old state building that we are in now, or it is the buildings of the regions and municipalities, there is, in fact, a maintenance delay which should be made up not only for energy reasons, but also for the sake of the indoor climate that it is an advantage to have in the top if it is the case that you have to learn something, for example. go to school or if it is the case that you have to make an effort as an employee of a publicly owned building. So we're not at the end of it all. And I actually think that energy savings should have a greater focus. Well, it is much easier to get attention about the realization of new energy islands or other large energy generating plants compared to having a focus on spending less. In fact, it is still sensible to invest in energy savings and even if we are going to have 100 per cent. renewable energy in some of our supplies, it is not a free energy. So we must continue to focus on achieving more energy savings and Enhedslisten would very much like to contribute to that. We have some discussions at the moment about sustainable construction, where there is a great deal of focus on new construction, but where until now there is a blind angle in terms of renovations of the building stock, and where I think there is every reason why it is also included in the political agreements that hopefully will be made this spring, and which can help the government to come to terms with the Climate Act and reach the 20 million tonnes of CO2 So, there should be more initiatives that aim to save energy, and the Enhedslisten would like to do so. However, we support the legislative proposal that is here and would like to continue working in other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226121057	Thank you. Sir. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226121115	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to comment on two of the parts of the draft law on the Energy Savings Council and on the VE process system, where there is an extension of time. These are the two elements on which I would like to concentrate. The Energy Savings Council: I always get worried when I come up here after Enhedslisten and have to agree with Enhedslisten that we are behind in relation to energy efficiency improvements in Denmark and that this is an element of what the Energy Savings Council should do in the future. Therefore, with regard to the composition of the phasing-out of fossil fuels and energy efficiency improvements, it may well be that we still need to focus a great deal on energy efficiency improvements, also in other places where there is no focus on phasing out fossil fuels. So I would like to include them in the committee's work to see if we have put the right cut right there. With regard to the extension of the deadline in relation to requests for the payment of subsidies under the VE to the process system, this is something that we have discussed in the conciliation circle and we have ended up here, but one of the prerequisites for it has been that the agreements concluded between the energy producers and distributors have been able to change the contracts that have been in place. I am informed by Danish Energy, and it is clear from the material submitted by the Minister to the parties in the political negotiations that there is nothing to prevent the network companies from including a reservation in the network connection agreements that owners of VE installations will have to pay for the network connection if the installation is not connected until 2023. However, Dansk Energi then had a discussion with the Danish Supply Agency about including such a new terms in the network connection agreements, and the Danish Supply Agency informed Dansk Energi in a letter on 29 January that it is not possible to include such terms in the network connection agreements without further ado. This means, of course, that there is still considerable uncertainty until the Supply Inspectorate approves the agreements which producers can conclude with distributors. What Dansk Energi has gained from the discussions is that the Supply Authority waits for the Danish Parliament to change the supply law. It will not be until October 2021, which means that there is a considerable delay in concluding these agreements between producers and distributors, which I hope the Minister will take up and take seriously. For that was the intention of the transitional system, that it should go smoothly and smoothly. But overall, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226121410	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen. It looks like it's the last rapporteur, so then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226121434	Thank you for the floor. The present draft law will clarify the purpose of the law on the promotion of energy saving and will provide better opportunities to grant subsidies to companies' energy saving projects. In addition, the draft law will authorise public financial measures to promote energy-efficient renovations in buildings to be linked to planned and implemented energy savings as part of the implementation of the Building Directive of May 2018. A further extension of the deadline for the request for the payment of aid under the RE to the process scheme is provided for if undertakings have already been made. The bill will include: provide greater flexibility in the allocation of grants to companies' energy-saving projects. Although new citizens would rather reduce taxes on businesses rather than subsidies, we can support a more flexible allocation when the allocation will now be implemented, and we can also support the other elements of the draft law. New citizens can thus support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226121543	Thank you. And then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226121607	Thank you. And thank the rapporteurs for their good comments on the bill. By 2020, a number of ambitious agreements have been concluded in the area of climate change, which also follows a need to implement. The climate and energy savings effort must go on two legs. On the one hand, a new ambitious climate and energy policy needs to be developed and, on the other hand, it requires effective implementations in order for it to be able to move on to land. This bill deals, among other things, with: About the last. The bill implements parts of the climate agreement for energy and industry from 2020, which almost all parties in this Chamber are behind. With the bill, we make it clear that the energy efficiency pools, as agreed with the 2018 Energy Agreement, can be targeted at the phasing out of black energy. At the same time, we are making an important adjustment to the business pool, as the wording of the Act is based on the Energy Agreement of 2018. The draft law therefore aims to reflect the climate agreement of 2020 also in the law and is described in the comments. The draft law is a joint legislative proposal which includes amendments to the Energy Savings Act, implementation of the Building Directive and extension of deadlines in the VE to the Process Scheme. As an important element of the bill, the Energy Savings Act creates the legal basis to translate the business pool as agreed in the conciliation circle. There is currently a legal basis for the pool in the Finance Act; it expires at the end of 2021. I am therefore concerned that we will have the future legal basis in the law in place. In this way, we can continue to ensure large and important energy savings in our industries. At the same time, I would like to acknowledge that we in the conciliation circle have found an effective and ambitious solution for the business pool. In the past, the pool was limited by the fact that only energy saving projects related to process energy could be subsidised. Following on from the climate agreement, this has changed so that much more energy-saving projects for companies and industries can be funded and implemented. And let me stress here that these are significant energy savings which contribute to the fulfilment of Denmark's energy savings commitments to the European Union. Energy savings are not only important for us to comply with our EU commitments. Energy efficiency improvements can contribute to a cost-effective achievement of our climate objectives, as energy efficiency improvements reduce the need for infrastructure development and for a more flexible energy system. With the building pool, the commercial pool and the scrapping pool, which was adopted with the Energy Agreement in 2018 and expanded with the 2020 agreement, energy savings and phasing out of fossil fuels in the industry and in the Danish homes are now being seriously boosted. The draft law clarifies the potential for phasing out fossil fuels in the context of energy savings and energy efficiency improvements in the purpose of the Energy Savings Act. This is an important contribution in the area of climate change. The possibility of changing the name of the Energy Savings Council is also established by this proposal. In this way, the name of the council can reflect the desired focus area for the Council's work. The Rules of Procedure of the Energy Saving Council and the appointment of its President and members are already administrative and it is therefore natural that the same applies to the name of the Council. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that I continue to see advice and focus on energy efficiency as the Council's prime task. The draft law also aims to implement parts of the Building Directive as a result of the amendment of the Directive in 2018. According to the directive, public authorities have to apply criteria when, for example, they have to apply criteria. aid shall be paid for energy renovation of buildings. The criteria aim to ensure that the potentials of the energy renovation are realised as far as possible. The purpose of the bill is to establish the necessary legal basis. The specific criteria will be implemented by means of a notice. The prospect of this part of the legislative proposal, as I said, is that we will get the full benefit of energy renovations and, at the same time, meet our EU legal obligations. Finally, the draft law proposes to extend the time limits for the request for assistance to VE in the process scheme. This is an extension of time limits where commitments have already been made. The extension of time limits is necessary in order for a number of companies to realise their VE for process projects. I am concerned here with giving the ongoing projects and the resulting CO2 bill is, as has been said, the implementation of existing agreements and the implementation of the Building Directive. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the bill with the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee, so that together we can ensure a good framework for the Danish energy efficiency improvement effort in the future. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226122105	Thank you. Nor is there any comment on the Minister, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210226122128	There's nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 2 March 2021, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
