ParlaMint-DK_20211125100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 95 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on secondary schools and free vocational schools. Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Trine Torp (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 50 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the transparency and transparency of records in municipal care for the elderly). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20211125100034	The matters listed in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the agenda may only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. And if no one objects, I consider the consent given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125100047	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? I think so, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left, does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125100106	Thank you for that, President. It is quite unusual for us to deal urgently with a draft law on vehicle sightings, but that is what we are doing here, and we are doing so, because there has been a mistake under the auspices of the Customs Authority. It has then been discovered, and that is why we currently have a situation where vehicles do not appear on a daily basis. We cannot, of course, have that, and that is why the Left is making a positive contribution to the urgent consideration of this proposal so that we can move forward. However, we are doing so on the clear assumption that those who have now been affected by the current situation, where there are no vehicles, will not experience the withdrawal of license plates and will not be fined. We are also doing so on the assumption that the so-called smiley system for sighting companies does not provide fault points as a result of what has happened here. Finally, there are some companies that could have suffered a loss because they have not been able to see the vehicles, and that is where we also assume that this loss can be compensated. The Minister also writes this in the hearing answer: that if you can prove a loss, you are welcome to go to the Danish Trade Administration and that if they cannot find out, you have the opportunity to go to the courts. So on the basis of these assumptions, the Left can support the bill. And we support urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125100228	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? And since that is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125100245	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125100308	Thank you. Normally, when there are health decisions to be made about infection here, one will assume that what the consequences are then when one adopts that law. But these are new times in the Danish Parliament, because when I asked the Ministry of Employment what the effects would be from introducing this demand for coronapas on companies, then you didn't know. It has simply not been examined what impact it will have on the infection, what impact it will have on the number of admissions, on the number of people in intensive care. I also asked: have you looked into what it would mean if you didn't do it? I mean, was it necessary to do this? But that had not been investigated. Finally, I asked the basic question: has the government even been advised by any health authorities on these issues? The answer was: No. We are therefore faced with a legislative proposal in which a single health authority has not been given any advice at all before it is adopted. This means that you have no idea what the consequences are in terms of health if there are any. In addition, it is now permitted that, unlike for the normal coronapas, there must also be a requirement for continuous testing of people who have been vaccinated. The question then is what significance it has for the current test system, which is already under pressure, if you suddenly open up to 90 per cent. now is about to be tested on an ongoing basis. Have you investigated what this will mean for our test system? Will the test system be able to stand at all? No, you haven't just checked that out. What are the economic consequences of the fact that a great many more people are about to be tested? Has it been investigated? No, you haven't just checked that out. In short, the Folketing has no idea whether it has any health professional effect or what effect it will have. You have no idea what that will mean for the test system out there, and you have no idea of the economic consequences that it will have. When I asked for support yesterday in the Employment Committee in here in the Folketing that we just asked for at least a health report before we vote through this, there was no support for it. It insists on rushing this through without having had a single health authority in it. In my optics it is quite simply irresponsible, and that is why we will be voting against in the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125100632	Thank you. I do not see any wish for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125100646	Thank you, President. The reason I am taking the floor is that the alternative has not submitted a report for the second reading of this draft law. As a service message to people who may be listening, the parties tell us what they are going to vote in committee a little before they say it in this Chamber, and that is what I have not been able to do. The reason for this is that we think there are uncertainties in this bill, which may allow employers to demand coronapas from employees. That is what the proposal is about. The uncertainty is that, as far as we can see, the law actually empowers the Minister to lay down rules as to what is meant by a coronapas, and thus, as we understand it, in theory, for example. could decide that the possibility of testing should be removed from the corona pass. The Government and the Minister have assured us that this is not the intention of the provision and that it will never be used for, for example, the environment. define coronapas as valid only on the basis of vaccination or antibodies. But if the provision which, in theory, could allow the Minister to take out the test is not to be used, why not delete it? That is why, in the alternative, we have tabled an amendment to the third reading, outside the report, as it says, to take that part out. In the alternative, we have always followed the recommendations of the health authorities, and we will of course continue to do so. We are in favour of vaccine. We are in favour of the recommendations made by the health authorities. However, at this time when it is being discussed and there are many who fear that the corona Pass will be changed, so that it may be only antibodies and vaccines that are applicable, we will not allow there to be any ambiguity about it in any way. At least that's how we feel. Fortunately, in Denmark we have been spared these scenes that we have seen in Austria and the Netherlands, and in our view it is necessary for the Folketing to do its utmost to avoid scenes like them. There we believe that doubts and powers in this area can quickly cause unrest. We're not saying the government is going to use it this way. That's not what we're saying. We're just saying that we'd like to be able to answer no if someone asks if there's a chance. In conclusion, I would also like to say that the proposal that came from the Enhedslisten seems to us to have been good to incorporate, namely that employers should also show a coronapa. But that was our comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125100916	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125100925	Thank you. I would just like to say that we share the concerns of the Alternative and have therefore also paid close attention to the questions that have been asked and the answers that have been given. We believe it is timely care to ensure that our jobs have better opportunities to avoid the spread of infection and such things, and that is why we support the proposal. With regard to the question of the authorisation of the Minister, it is my view now that we have received the answers we have received that this is all about finding out, in terms of health and in the context of the Epidemic Committees and the like, some other definitions of what a coronapas is, including, for example. Whether it lasts 72 hours or other hours, and if you want to make such a change, you also have to make a change to this law, that is L 94, which we think is unreasonable to spend time on. Therefore, with the clear answers we have been given, that it is for the sole reason that there is authorisation in the legislative proposal that we have arrived at a vote against the amendment, although we can easily see the concerns that are in it and we have also shared those concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101039	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I know that the Minister has asked for the floor, but I will allow the rapporteurs to speak first, because I think that is the right thing to do. Then it's Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101052	Thank you very much, President. I would just like to add two words to the amendment tabled by the Alternative, because the alternative raises a very relevant concern, as we also have in the Radical Left, namely to give a minister the power to define coronapas. However, when we are going to vote against this amendment in a moment, it is because, when I asked the Minister yesterday to confirm that this paragraph 1 paragraph 1 is correct. 5, that is to say, this authorization will only be implemented in accordance with the regulation on coronapas, which is issued under the Code of Epidemiology, has confirmed this in writing, and I hope he will do so here from the platform in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101142	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I think it's sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101153	Thank you. Yesterday we had a great deal of debate in the Employment Committee, and there was Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is on Teams. We had a major discussion about the problems involved and what the background was for introducing it. We also asked questions about it, and the answer has also come today, and it is linked to the draft law that it was on the basis of the recommendations of the Epidemi Commission that a right should be introduced for employers to demand to see coronapas. That was the position, and that is what the Minister will then probably also refer to when the Minister comes up on the platform. But I hope that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen can confirm that we in the Danish People's Party support the possibility of having those questions put in that committee. I should also like to say that we in the Danish People's Party are also a little concerned about the way in which this is going, and in this respect we will vote in favour of the amendment that has been tabled by the Alternative, because we have some reservations, because we cannot really understand what the consequences are. So in the Danish People's Party we will vote in favour of that amendment by the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101321	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, I see. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101332	In the Free Greens, we do not recognise that we need to see corona as a social-critical disease at this time. Yesterday there were 49 hospitalized in intensive care, and that is a very small number. So what we really see as necessary is to give priority to our health care so that we can take the number of sick people that are now, because that should not be frightening. And what about the flu epidemic, which comes after that, should it also be called society-critical? We recognise that the alternative proposal is a step in the right direction, but as we do not accept the premise that we will vote against.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101409	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I do not see that any more rapporteurs have asked to speak. That is why I shall give the floor to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101419	Thank you and thank you for the debate both at first reading and here at second reading. I would also like to thank both the trade union movement and the Danish Employers' Association for, I think, a very constructive approach to this, and so would I say to the vast majority of Parliament's parties supporting the bill. A few questions have been raised on which I would just like to make a few comments. One is that the health professionals who sit on the epidemic commission have long ago considered that the corona passport is an effective tool for breaking off infection chains because it reduces the risk of spreading infection through high levels of social activity. That is also the reason why we want to give employers the opportunity to introduce the corona passport to jobs. It is true that the specific bill is an extension of a tripartite agreement concluded between the government, the Danish Employers' Association and the main trade union organisation. And we called for it after a call from employers, who thought that it would partly help to create security in many jobs. Moreover, this is something that has been confirmed by the trade union movement, but there is also a question of working conditions. On the one hand, there would be something that could help keep the wheels running over the winter, so that we do not have to shut down jobs and lose orders, productivity and economics that would be detrimental to all of us. I would like to make one comment on the amendment tabled by the Alternative. Here I can just confirm what Mrs Samira Nawa of the Radical Left says. I have answered one question, Question No. 26 to the draft law, in which I confirm that the authorisation provision alone will be implemented in accordance with the regulation on coronapas issued under the epidemic law. And what is written here in good Danish is: There will be no Minister for Employment who invents his own coronapas. We are going to lean on the general coronapa, which applies in the rest of society, and which is issued under the epidemic law. So the reason why this is an authorisation clause in this legislation and that we are not writing in detail what the corona passport should contain is that we would like to be able to lean on the health-care decisions taken elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101640	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101643	It was just a matter of whether the Minister can confirm that it is the Epidemic Committee that has lifted it to a social-critical illness again, in other words that it is a political decision that has been taken on it. Secondly, the answer from the Ministry of Employment says that the health authorities have not been consulted. So if you have consulted the health authorities, I think you should write it. But the fact is, you didn't do that when you had to do this. Does the Minister not think that it would be appropriate and proper to introduce something like this, to consult the health authorities to find out what the effect really is? Secondly, does the Minister not also think that it would be sensible to find out what the consequences would be for the test system when there may be a requirement that vaccinated persons should be tested on an ongoing basis? Does the Minister have any idea what this means for the test system, which is already under pressure if 90% at present. of the population is now suddenly about to be tested on an ongoing basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101734	I would like to start by saying that it is true that this opportunity given to the employer applies as long as the Parliament's Epidemics Committee considers Covid-19 to be a social-critical disease. So we are leaning on the decisions taken in the Epidemic Committee, and there are politicians, so it is a political decision. That's right. However, I think that the right thing to do is to lean on the decisions taken in that committee and that we do not have a parallel process in the Ministry of Employment, where it is employment rapporteurs who assess when covid-19 is to be regarded as a social-critical disease. What I was trying to say in my introduction was that it is true that no calculation of the impact of this bill has been made, but it is also difficult because it is not a duty for employers to demand that their employees show coronapas. It's an opportunity they get, and we don't know how many people will use it. I think it will depend to a large extent on how the infection develops over the winter. It is now a tool in the toolbox, and it is clear that if it is used more, then the effect will be greater, but we do not have the ability to calculate the effect of it when we do not know how many will use it. On the test system, I would say that many of the employers I have talked to are talking about wanting to have tests at the workplace. I think we're gonna see a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101844	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101846	But the train has run in relation to just leaning on the Epidemic Committee and the decisions taken there. Because this isn't the same thing as the coronapa you generally make for the population, for example. What we now want for the liberal professions. For there is no possibility of requiring that the vaccinated should also be tested on an ongoing basis. In fact, it has been remarkably neglected that vaccinated people should be tested on an ongoing basis, although we know that after six months the coverage will fall. So the Ministry of Employment has not acted on what has been done in the Epidemis Committee. These are two different solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101919	I think that is quite clear from the draft law, I would say, subject to the fact that I misunderstand the question that we are not inventing our own parallel system here, but that we are leaning quite closely on when the Epidemis Committee considers it to be a social-critical disease. And it is Parliament itself that has decided to set up an Epidemic Committee, which I think is a sensible decision. But that also means, I think, that the logical thing would be for us in the legislation to lean on the decisions that are being taken there as well. Right now, a decision has been taken that we regard covid-19 as a social-critical disease until a certain date in December. If it is extended, the possibilities for employers in this law will also be automatically extended.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125101955	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. No one else has asked for the floor, and that concludes the debate and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125102003	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Torsten Gejl (ALT) and can be voted. The vote will end. in favour of 13 (DF, NB and ALT), against 89 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and FG), abstentions 0. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125102048	I have to finish the meeting. At 1:00 a.m. 10.35 we meet again for a new sitting and there are a number of votes.
