ParlaMint-DK_20211111100005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill no. L 79 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Marine Environment). Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries (Rasmus Prehn): Bill No. L 80 (Proposal for a Law on the Marine, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund. Bill No. L 81 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the killing and temporary prohibition of mink. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. L 82 (Proposal for a Law amending the Aliens Act, the Integration Act and the Law on Danish Education for Adult Aliens and Others) Minister for Development Cooperation (Flemming Møller Mortensen): Bill No. L 83 (Proposal for a law amending the law on international development cooperation. Minister for Health (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 84 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Force in Psychology, etc.) and the Health Act. Bill No. L 85 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health, Electronic Cigarettes, etc.) and the Law on Tobacco Products, etc. and adaptation of the fee models for products covered by the Electronic Cigarettes Act, etc. and the law on tobacco products, etc.). Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 37 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on bringing common EU child protection rules up to the next EU summit). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the development of EU cooperation. R 8). The statement will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday 3 December 2021. From a member of the Folketing, Jep Bruus, who is on leave, I have been informed that, from 15 November 2021 onwards, he can again meet at the Ting. Anne Sina's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100140	That which is listed as point No. Ten on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. That is why we must vote on such consent. As you know, a three-quarters majority is required for such consent. I would also like to say to the Danish Parliament that we have this urgent procedure during the day, and I have decided that as the committee has finished its work, we will take it into the Chamber and vote on it so that we can finish voting as soon as possible, as I suspect that there are many members of parliament who have duties around the country. So we are going to conclude the votes as quickly as possible, but of course the committee must have the time to deal with the proposal. We are now voting in the first place on an emergency procedure waiver.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100227	A vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and Nas Khader (UFG)), against 2 (NB), abstention 0. The consent is thus granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100255	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100324	The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals. First, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 8 by Kasper Sand Kjær (S), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 26 (S), against 72 (V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and Nas Khader (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 8 is rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 9 by Per Larsen (KF), Morten Dahlin (V), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Nas Khader (UFG)), against voting 55 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 9 is rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 10 by Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Samira Nawa (RV) and Peder Hvelplund (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 29 (SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT) voted against 69 (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Nas Khader (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 10 has been rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 11 by Sikandar Siddique (FG), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 2 (FG), against 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Nas Khader (UFG)), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 11 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100528	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100541	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. voted 98 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and 1 UFG (Nas Khader), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100604	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100621	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour of 69 votes (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA and 1 UFG (Nas Khader)), against 29 abstentions (SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100647	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100701	Thank you. I would like to make a brief comment on this bill. Because, as we all know, I think it was very good that we actually managed to reach a fairly broad political agreement to evacuate these people from Afghanistan this summer. A real, really big job was put into evacuating people, and I thought it was important that they were given the opportunity to get to safety. On the side of the Enhedslisten, we have also put a great deal of emphasis on the fact that the people who have now arrived should not only be offered the temporary status here, but also be informed of their full right to seek asylum and receive proper and good treatment there. And the Minister has also assured us that this is something that everyone will be informed about. This is really important because their rights will be better with an entirely common asylum than what we are adopting here today. But the reason I have taken the floor here is because people are actually still sitting down there. We still have an opportunity to evacuate some of the people who have also worked for Danish NGOs. It is mainly women's rights defenders and human rights defenders who have been known externally and who have now been persecuted by the Taliban. We know quite specific people who are sitting and hiding right now. They're running out of food, and they're running out of money. We have recommendations from the Danish organisations they have worked for that they are some well-known people. And there's an opportunity to evacuate them over the ground. That is why we have also been in the circle of agreements negotiating whether or not we could do more for these people. That is our wish in the Enhedslisten. I know that SF and Radicals also share the desire that we should be able to do something more for them. Unfortunately, the Left and Conservatives jumped as they did, and ended up not wanting to make that deal, and unfortunately the government did not have the courage to do so either. We are talking about in the vicinity of 100 people who have worked also for Denmark and Danish organisations, women's rights defenders, human rights defenders, who are personally and directly persecuted by the Taliban and whom we have an opportunity to help out of the country. So we are reluctant to do so politically. I find this totally unacceptable. I would like to appeal for that resolution to be reconsidered, because I believe that this is the responsibility we have and that we need to take on board. It's not too late to help these people, but it could be very soon. So an appeal to rethink it and give the opportunity to actually continue to evacuate some of these NGO workers who have done a huge job for human rights and for women's freedom. In fact, they should also be helped now that they need it and are being persecuted by the Taliban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100947	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111100950	I just have two questions. As I understand it, the Enhedslisten wants these very many people who came from Afghanistan to have asylum. How does the rapporteur view the possibility that they will then be granted asylum at the end of this two-year period? The second question is: Does it give any concern at all for the Enhedslisten that the government started by saying that it was some and forty we would get to Denmark, and now it is to be expected that it is a four-digit number, that is to say over a thousand, that comes to Denmark in this account, which apparently a large majority of all parties in here except the Danish People's Party, the New Citizens' Party and Mrs Inger Støjberg are in favour of. Does this not give rise to any doubts at all? It is, of course, including people who are criminals and whom we have got for Denmark. It's including people where there are two wives. Is this really the way we should go, that is to say to have even more of Enhedslisten thinks so?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101048	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101050	To the first question on asylum, I can answer very clearly that it is people's right to seek asylum when they are in Denmark. So there are no snitches in the waltz at all. They all have the right to seek asylum, and it is just a matter of informing them of the human rights they have there. So there's not much. And then they have to deal with their asylum case. This is clearly my expectation and it is also the talk we have had in the conciliation circle that it should be easier also for Afghans to get asylum in Denmark than it has been so far, with the situation that there is in Afghanistan right now, when the Taliban is sitting on it all. It is clear and absolutely incontrovertible that they have the right to seek asylum, and that is why, of course, they must also be informed about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101128	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101130	I really think it is very good to have it fully clarified, because we do have parties in here that pretend to have a very, very strict immigration policy; we have the Left and the Conservatives who are apparently in favour of this large group of people having to have asylum. And, indirectly, after the two years, they will be able to obtain asylum and that is what the Enhedslisten wants. What's the limit of who comes next? Now the Enhedslisten comes to the government that has been permissive to people from the Islamic State here recently and says that more are going to Denmark. Where does it stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101205	I would like to say that the group we have evacuated now and what we have made the agreement on are people who have worked for the Danish state at the embassy in Kabul. It is people who have interpreted for Danish soldiers in Afghanistan, a war that I also remember that the Danish People's Party has supported. And then the people who have worked for human rights and women's rights are something that the Danish People's Party has also not held back from using as arguments for the war. So, yes, I think it is quite appropriate that when they get into trouble, because the Taliban wins in a failed war that Denmark has been involved in, you also help to take responsibility. That is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101242	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101244	Thank you. I understand that Enhedslisten is very concerned about what the Left thinks, and it is always nice when other parties do so. But let us get some facts into the debate. Point 1: After all, we were one of the parties that, together with the Enhedslisten, pressed the government to get started so that we could get the evacuation started early so that we could also get the necessary security screening done in both Kabul and Islamabad before they came to Denmark. And the reason we're not here about extra people is that you can't get this security screening because the government didn't get started in time when a lot of people recommended the government to get started. Paragraph 2: There's nothing stopping the Enhedslisten and the government from doing this. Left and Conservatives have said time and again that we clearly recognise that if there is a majority in the Danish Parliament that wants to bring more people up here without security clearance, then you can do it; you can do it right now and here. Then for Enhedslisten: Don't shoot on Left and Conservatives. Shoot at the government, which apparently won't follow up on what Enhedslisten is asking for. Well, we're not in government, we're in opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101344	Well, I would like to make it very clear to the rapporteur of the Left that I think that both the Left and the Conservatives, and when I mention the Left, it is because I was very pleased that the Left and the Conservatives helped to make that agreement. I think that this is a responsibility that falls to us quite broadly, and that is why I was disappointed that the Left would not go all the way. But I fully agree that we have a red majority that we could use, and I have also called on the government to do so many times; I think the government can sign that too. Anyway, the Left has a responsibility here too. And yes, it is not possible to carry out physical talks in Kabul now with people. These are the terms of the Taliban sitting in power down there. I do not think that relieves one of the responsibilities that it is actually helping to stand up for some of the women who have been pushed forward in the face of so many years of war. There is full opportunity to do the safety check when they come to Copenhagen, and there is also full opportunity to sit and handpick these people in collaboration with the Danish organisations who know them. So it's not very dangerous.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101450	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101452	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you for the invitation. After all, the Greens do not think that the agreement that has been reached is good enough. In fact, we should help all the people who have helped us in our war over the last 20 years. So the agreement is not good enough at all. At the same time, however, I would like to make a call to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Free Greens cannot do anything about it, because we do not have the crucial mandates, but you in the Enhedslisten have the crucial mandates. So the Free Greens would like to call on the Enhedslisten to use the crucial mandates to press the government, to press the Social Democrats and to demand that we help the people who work for women's rights, the people who work for human rights down there, the many people who have helped our soldiers in the last 20 years. Because the Enhedslisten has the key.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101555	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101557	I can assure you, sir. Sikandar Siddique says that this is a matter of great concern to the Enhedslisten, and we have spent a great deal of time pressing for these people to be safe and evacuated. In fact, that is also why we have been involved in making the agreement. I also have contact with several of the people who sit down there. The failure of Denmark to fulfil its responsibilities in this way is something that deeply affects me. But in terms of what we can do, it's • and we're pushing the government all that, we can also have a question of counting mandates and looking around in this Parliament hall, where for some, strict immigration policy apparently outweighs the responsibility of other people who have even worked for Denmark. Well, it's amazing and for me very hard to understand, but sir... Sikandar Siddique can count as well as I can, and see that we still do not have a majority, and that is why I appeal both to the government and to the Left and to the Conservatives that they actually take their responsibility upon themselves. That is also why I say this in the Chamber and say it as far as I can in all kinds of media. Because I actually think that the vast majority of Danes think this is simply too poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101701	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101702	But it is quite true that it requires 90 mandates, and that is why I believe that as a party we must do away with ourselves, how far we want to go in support of a government that is failing the many people who have helped us over the last 20 years. At any rate, this is something I would like to call on the Enhedslisten to reconsider.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101718	I can promise you, sir. Sikandar Siddique, that we in the Enhedslisten are constantly checking how our relationship is by the way, but in this question we are pushing everything we can. And I would just like to encourage the other parties to be able to face themselves and actually help take responsibility. We still have a little time to evacuate these people, and I think we should use it. It is practically possible, and the only thing that prevents it is that there is not the will here in the Folketing to do so. So we are talking about quite a few human rights activists and women sitting and in great danger.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101753	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101754	So, I have to say to Mrs Flyvholm that looking myself in the eye, I have done very, very many times, and the consideration we take in the Danish People's Party is the consideration of the Danish people. I think it is really scary when Mrs Eva Flyvholm stands up here and says that now just more Afghans have to go to Denmark. We'd like to help, but they're not going to Denmark. There's enough chaos around Denmark. Then there's that song you keep singing about them helping us. So it is we who have helped them. It is we who have sent Danish soldiers who have risked their lives; it is we who have helped them to do that, I would like to stress very, very much. How many families, how many soldiers have risked their lives to help in Afghanistan for so many years? I think it's a mockery the way this is turned around. And let me just say once and for all that what this is all about is the concern for the Danish people and not the concern for what Mrs Flyvholm thinks of human rights activists, etc. Think about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101857	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111101858	I would like to say to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that it is interesting and that I actually had very close cooperation with many of the soldiers who have been deployed in Afghanistan about the evacuations here, which have actually been very, very concerned about evacuating some of the interpreters they had worked with in Afghanistan, and getting them to safety, and they are still very concerned that we are evacuating more of these NGOs. Too many of our soldiers who have been deployed have known these people and worked with them, including on some of the women's rights projects, etc. that have been. So it's my experience of the soldiers and former soldiers I've had contact with that they've actually been very, very interested that their collaborators also came to safety. But it may be that we are talking to different people. The other one is this security thing. Honestly: Safety assessments are being made by people before they enter the country, and I do not think that those who will pose a particularly high risk to the Danish Empire are people who have worked with women's rights for years in Afghanistan who have worked with Danish NGOs, had Danish colleagues, etc. They are hardly the ones who pose a very high risk, and they are actually the ones I am asking for us to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102004	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102006	Yes, but it is clear that something has to happen in relation to the people but they are not going to Denmark. They must be helped in the neighbourhoods, they are not going to Denmark. Why is it so important for Mrs Eva Flyvholm and the Enhedslisten and the rest of the red parties that they are going to Denmark? And I must admit that I am astonished by the fact that the Left and the Conservatives can be a part of this special law. I am very puzzled about that and also that we are not really taking the floor on just a brief note, because I think this is actually quite important. But what I also think Mrs Flyvholm did not relate to was the number that has increased enormously from the first to be taken to Denmark and then what it is now. Doesn't it worry at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102043	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102045	There's never been a report that it was only 40. The figure of 46 was the number of employees at the embassy. It has always been quite clear that they would also be evacuated with families, and later there was also a political agreement that we also evacuated interpreters and some individual NGOs. I thought that was quite appropriate. It is clear that you cannot predict the exact figure, because it depends on how many family members people have been, but it has gone all the way by the book. And I do not think it should be the exact number to decide whether or not to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102117	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. There are no more brief comments. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102126	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 12 (DF, NB and Nas Khader (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102153	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102209	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. voted 98 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and Nas Khader (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. Now it is the case that there are no more votes for the time being but, as I said at the outset, we will call for votes as the committee has finished and we will have to vote twice more during the day. So, those who do not want to participate in the negotiations, please leave the Chamber quietly now. I think there has been time to leave the Chamber for those who do not want to take part in the negotiations, and now we go to the second readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102358	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102425	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102451	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102506	Thank you for that, President. With this bill, we must ensure that it is still possible to initiate emergency education if schools or educational institutions are shut down in whole or in part according to a specific instruction from the Patient Safety Agency. And this is not, of course, a new situation in terms of content. This is actually the situation we have been in for a very long time now around corona. Therefore, this proposal is really just what makes it possible to shut down if it is necessary, should it be required by the Patient Safety Agency, then it must of course be possible for schools and educational institutions to provide emergency education which is essential for our children and young people to get through the best possible way. Therefore, it is also clear that we have held meetings with stakeholders, who are very interested in this being adopted quickly, so that we, like us, ensure that there is an opportunity to offer the teaching. They have also said that they do not need a hearing, since they are well aware of the content, because that is the legislation that is already in force right now. However, it is clear that it is of course not desirable or appropriate for us to deal with urgent matters, and that is why this draft law has as short a duration as possible, and after discussion with the parties of the Folketing, we will also recommend that its validity be only immediately before Christmas, and that next week the Minister of Education will present a draft law which can be dealt with entirely in accordance with the standard procedure and which will be able to deal with how to ensure emergency education on the other side of 23 December. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102650	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Van der Klaauw. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102705	Thank you for that, President. The Minister of Education has asked for this urgent procedure to extend the emergency law in the field of children's and education, which allows to mitigate some of the side effects we could call them as there is at the covid-19 management. In the field of children's and education, this applies in particular to the effects of decommissioning and repatriation in connection with outbreaks of infection. In the Left, we have listened to the stakeholders' desire for an extension of the Emergency Act, so that it is still possible to offer, among other things. distance learning, the running of samples in adapted forms, etc. However, I also think that there is reason to criticise the government for the fact that the extension here today should be carried out as an emergency procedure. We have had too many of them, the inappropriate ones, they pose a greater risk of lawlessness, and consultation with stakeholders will be inadequate and inadequate. I'm thinking that no one well thought that corona would disappear, and I guess everyone had the impression that the infection would rise over the autumn and winter. That is why this draft law could have been tabled without difficulty in the past and also dealt with with normal time limits. For the Left, it has been crucial that the Emergency Act runs for a more limited period. In the event of a further extension after 23 December, we shall lay down as a condition for ordinary legal proceedings. We are not in a state of absolute martial law and, of course, I think the working procedures in the Folketing should reflect this. I note that the government is also in agreement with that. At the same time, it has been important to ensure that the draft law is not applied to the same mass closures of schools, classes and institutions that we have seen in the past during the covid-19. And we note here that the Minister has provided a guarantee that this is not the intention. In conclusion, let me make a request. I hear more and more experts saying that corona is a disease that we as a society must learn to live with and that we can expect more similar epidemics in the future. So let's start a dialogue in the Folketing on how to deal with it in the future • what kind of framework it is, what tools it is that our institutions need more lastingly • so that in the future we also need fewer of these kinds of emergency and emergency procedures. But the Left backs the bill today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111102954	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111103008	Thank you. We have known since the spring that the Emergency Act would expire here in December and we have negotiated the transition to normal under the Emergency Act in the last few months, among other things. in relation to how the exams were to be conducted, both in the winter term and in the summer term 2022. Why, then, have we not properly discussed the problem of home education? In principle, we agree that if school classes are to be sent home because of corona, there should be the possibility of distance learning. That is why we have also agreed to deal urgently with an extension. But we find it scandalous that the Minister has not addressed the problem in better time. That is why it is important that, in parallel, a draft law is put forward to replace the emergency law, which could have a more normal procedure in this Chamber. We also note that the Minister has clearly indicated, both to our committee and to the Committee on Epidemia, that it is not the intention of the government to extend the scope for shutting schools down with the extension of the emergency law. It is absolutely crucial for the Danish People's Party that no more children are returned than absolutely necessary. This will enable us to support the adoption of the Emergency Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111103133	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Strøjer-Schmidt Strøder-Schmidt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111103141	Thank you. Our rapporteur did not have the opportunity to be here today, so I would like to explain the SF's position. These days we are experiencing an increase in the number of infected with corona. Several schools have already had to send the children home for home education because of outbreaks of infection. That is why it is important that we now ensure that the Emergency Act continues. All stakeholders in the field of children and education have urged us to postpone the repeal of the Emergency Act. If the emergency law had expired on 16 November and therefore no longer provided for emergency education, children, young people, parents, teachers, educators and leaders would have been affected in the schools. If a school had had to shut down because of infection, the school would not have been able to offer the children and young people proper education at home. The teaching would thus be left to the parents or in some families to the children or young people themselves. This would not have been a sustainable situation, so in the SF we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111103234	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and so it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111103242	Thank you for that, President. I am simply so sorry for the many children and young people who have been at home for far too long under corona, and for all the families who found it really difficult to make it happen, and that is why I feel that I can barely stand, that we are standing here and having to deal with this proposal, which is, of course, an extension of emergency education. You don't have to talk very much to students to know how important the community at school is, i.e. how much it means for them to be with their friends and their teachers, and you don't have to talk very much to managers or teachers to get the impression how tired they are of the many guidelines and the changes that have been over and over again, and it's almost unbearable to think about if we're going into such a winter again. I therefore think that as politicians we must take a special responsibility for making a long-term plan so that we know what we can relate to. Now that we are standing here today and extending this provision that one can receive education when one is sent home, I think it is a pity that we have to do so on such urgent treatment here. I also find it a little difficult to see that this could have been done quite plainly, because it would have provided that we had already, when the Danish Parliament opened, tabled this bill. And if I had to rewind and think of what I and we would have said in the Radical Left if the Minister had made the proposal, I would probably have just said: we really do not want to make this provision unless we are absolutely sure that it is necessary. That is why we would have gone some way in which we might have wished we had had this discussion a week or two weeks ago, but I think it seems reasonably unrealistic to think that we had already made the decision when the Folketing opened. In the Radical Left, we are very tight on urgent legislation, which is why it has also been very important for us that we should now do it this time, as we have already said to the government on the previous occasions, when they have carried out urgent treatment, that we should ensure that, if we are to deal with urgent matters, we should put a very early expiry date on and, at the same time, start the ordinary procedure so that the legislative proposal can be adopted in a proper manner where there is time for proper consultation. The Minister has listened to this and it means a lot to me that I too can be in the proposal today. Then there is one more thing, and this is what it is about the winter into which we as a child and as a family look into, and it is important for us in the Radical Left that, at the same time as we now extend the possibility of providing distance learning for the pupils who have been sent home, we have the principle of open schools. So that, contrary to what it was like last winter, here in the Folketing, we have a principle with each other that we only close schools and classes when it is absolutely important and so it is not something we do as one of the first. The two things simply have to go together because we need to have this principle of open schools to be sure that we only close schools and only send students home when it is most necessary, otherwise children should be allowed to be in the community with their comrades and their teachers. This will enable the Radical Left to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111103618	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111103625	Thank you. I do not think that anyone thinks that emergency legislation is very good. One might say that it is a little in the name that suggests that it is not something we want, but something we have found necessary. We in the Enhedslist believe that the emergency legislation that has worked here for a long time has been a sensible framework, both in terms of ensuring training during decommissioning, but also in terms of addressing the challenges that have been followed by decommissioning and reopened. With the growing infection in society, especially among the 5-14-year-olds, we are fully committed to extending legislation in the Enhedslisten. With regard to the comments that have already fallen on the desirability of having three treatments today, I would say that I would be very surprised if someone went up and said that three treatments were very good on the same day. This is really bad, and of course we have just turned it in our group too. But I would also like to say that I believe that if the government had put this forward here immediately by the parliamentary system, I am quite convinced that it would not have been possible to achieve broad agreement here in the circle that legislation should be extended. That is why I think we should not give too much teasing to each other in this context, but recognise that we must jointly assume a responsibility to ensure that further training can be provided under flexible conditions if the disease continues to increase, and there is certainly no indication that we are beyond the problem on Tuesday when the emergency law expires. It is very reasonable that the government should now respond to a wish to allow it to expire before Christmas, but for us it would not have done anything if it had not expired on 3 January, but it is a good thing, and I hope that we will then be able to negotiate jointly with the government a solution that goes beyond New Year's, because unfortunately I believe that in this context I am so pessimistic to believe that we will need to ensure flexibility even in the period after New Year. With those comments, the Enhedslisten naturally supports the extension of the Emergency Act and the vote on the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111103859	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111103907	Unfortunately, our rapporteur, Mai Mercado, also has no opportunity to be present in the Chamber today, and that is why I have promised to cover her. In the Conservative People's Party, we support the extension of the emergency law so that it will also be possible to provide emergency education if we get through further decommissionings, including the possibility of carrying out distance learning and conducting tests and examinations. However, our support for the bill is not without reservations, as several others have also mentioned earlier in their treatment, and there are several reasons for this. First of all, we want to go very, very far to avoid the decommissioning of schools and, as Mrs Lotte Rod also mentioned, this is something that comes with major consequences, perhaps even more consequences than we had imagined. I believe that we have all become wiser in the course we have been through in relation to how much pain it can also cause for young people. So this shouldn't be seen as an expression of a carte blanche in relation to large-scale shutdowns. Secondly, we are also concerned that this legislation is being rushed through, also because we think it is unnecessary. To send a letter on Friday with a request for urgent procedure with scheduled first reading on Tuesday, final adoption of the draft law today Thursday, we do not believe that it is proper. The Minister could have ensured a real legal process with consultation of stakeholders. We think it has become too much of a day-to-day situation with these urgent procedures, and that puts some democratic rules out of hand. That is why we are also pleased that the bill obliges the government to present a new bill in due time and without urgency as early as December, so that the government will not be able to apply this emergency law into 2022. In those words, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111104054	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we go to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111104121	It is paradoxical to stand up here on the platform and hear a lot of regret that there is now urgent legislation in this area again, because we actually had a majority in favour of it not being dealt with urgently, but unfortunately we fell to the titty, so to speak, and unfortunately the bourgeois majority, who was in order not to allow this matter to be dealt with urgently, was dropped. Now we are standing here today as a matter of urgency treating an emergency law in the field of school. When we looked into school closures last year when the government sent the children home, there were a whole lot of talented people, professionals who told us what the huge consequences were of sending all the children home. Now this has been discussed with the fact that schools are not being mass shut down and so on, but why on earth is this emergency law being made? If there are sick children who are at home, as a schoolteacher I know, because I am very well sending some material home. So why on earth should we make an emergency law on distance learning if it is about closing schools only for short, short periods or shutting down classes for short periods? That doesn't make any sense. If you, for example, to send a class home for a week, they can easily get some assignments to work with home. So this doesn't make any sense, I just have to say that. We also voted 'no' last time, and we are not in favour of first giving Mette Frederiksen and the government the power of shutting down society. Unfortunately, a majority in the Folketing has done so. Apparently, they trust the Prime Minister to manage that power, but we do not do so in New Citizens. The last time, when the schools were closed, for example, pediatrician and chairman of the Danish Paediatric Society Klaus Birkelund Johansen made it clear that at the time it was not then in the institutions or schools that the children were infected, because it was therefore at home with the parents, and he did not think that there was evidence of health care to keep the schools closed in order to stop the infection. Christian Kanstrup Holm, a researcher, said that he believed that there was evidence that it is no use to shut the schools down. The same message came from professor and viruologist Søren Riis Paludan, because when you look at the cost of winnings, you have to say that there is no evidence to close schools and day care centres. That's what he said at the time. Nevertheless, today we are dealing urgently with the extension of an emergency school law to enable children to be sent home remotely. Come on! In New Citizens, we are not in favour of the children being sent home. Corona is part of society, and it must also be, as has also been mentioned from the platform before. I think it was a Social Democratic Prime Minister who said otherwise: live with it! But we must actually learn to live with corona, and it is simply pointless to continue to accept widely that children and young people are exposed to being sent home and losing. We have such a huge backlog already at this time, and children and young people are miserable and feel really bad because they have been sent home in a very large style. At the same time, we have a very large backlog in relation to both the professional and the social aspects, and I know that the teachers are struggling out there to correct the major damage that has also been done to the corona closure. I shall not take any more time, but I can only say that in New Citizens we stand firm, we say what we mean and we do what we say, and that is why, of course, we vote against this emergency law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111104533	There is a brief comment on Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111104535	I just want to ask New Citizens: What is New Citizens' opinion that all stakeholders in this area have asked for this law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111104552	I would like to make a very brief comment on this. Of course, it is clear, and I understand it, that when there is a warning that there is a majority in favour of upgrading corona to be a social-critical disease again, thereby enabling it to give power back, so that you can actually shut schools down, sitting out there thinking: if that happens, we should be able to do it here. But they don't want it. We do not want to upgrade corona to a social-critical disease. Unfortunately, that is what a large majority wants. Because we don't want to give anyone that power so you can shut down schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111104628	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That is why we welcome Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111104638	Thank you. The comments I have made, of course, because I am the rapporteur for education, but I have also been the rapporteur for health throughout the course of the corona. That, of course, also matters. As a society, we must learn to live with corona, and we must learn to live with it in a reality where almost 90% of people live with it. of the people who have been offered the vaccine have actually been vaccinated. But we must also learn to live with corona as a parliament, and living with corona as a parliament means avoiding urgent legislation, because it destroys the consultation process that is so useful to all of us. There's time to think and hurry slowly. It is not possible yet to vaccinate children between 6 and 12 years of age. The vaccine to do so has been released in the United States, and I wonder if the European authorities will follow at some point. But so far the problem is in fact that children do not become particularly ill, but they are quite seriously contagious, and we therefore of course accept that in some very special cases there may be a need to shut schools down. However, we should not pursue a corona policy now that the majority of adults have been vaccinated, similar to the corona policy that was pursued before we had the vaccines available. With the comments that have come from not least the rapporteurs from the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party and also from Mrs Lotte Rod, and with the reservations about urgent legislation, we can support the draft law. But that is with serious concern, because both as a parliament and as a society we must live with corona, and we must do it in a different way than we have done so far. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111104854	Thank you. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why it is now the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111104902	Thank you for that and thank you for supporting this proposal. And, yes, I am also concerned about urgent legislation, just to put it bluntly, I do not think that is something to put on lightly. I would say that throughout the coronatide we have held oral hearings in the Ministry of Children and Education, even when we have had a few hours to do so. In other words, we simply chose to move to an oral consultation process, and we did so at the outset when shutting down and it has worked very well. It has done so for all kinds of reasons. It has worked well because it has meant that we have received enormously much and incredibly valuable and fast input in relation to the things we should be working with under corona and which we have been able to directly implement right away. I was very worried when we went into the coronate. I mean, I've been sitting in parliament almost all my adult life, using hearings for a lot of legislation, which is why one of the things I was most worried about was, in fact, precisely the lack of consultation period. That is why these oral hearings have given us a great deal along the way, and we have also had a similar oral hearing in connection with what we are discussing today, and this time both the political follow-up group and all stakeholders were present at the same time. Normally it has been divided into two different forums. I would say this: why is it that we are dealing with urgent matters today? And my answer will also be answers to the questions and the things that have been raised up here. It is simply the case that if you do not have a permanent emergency law, and I have not heard that anyone supported it, no one thinks that there should be a permanent emergency law, it means that, by its very nature, you will need an emergency law in order to establish distance learning when it is the case that the pandemic is rising again. And since the pandemic does not have three months or a month and a half to run on, so that we can reach the 30-day hearing and the 30-day intervals between the first and second readings, one will necessarily come into a situation where one needs urgent treatment unless one makes a permanent emergency law that is to say, unless we decide together in the field of education that we think it is a good idea to have a permanent emergency law. It should be a new break in terms of how we have dealt with it, and it should at least mean that the fence posts have moved to a rather massive political level. And then it will be the case that the times when the pandemic develops, we will have to come back and ask for legislation to be dealt with urgently so that we can respond to the situation. And yes, right now there are very few schools that are closed and fortunately closed for it and therefore very few schools need the distance learning. But for those where the school is closed for 14 days, the parents of the children and, incidentally, the children themselves have the same need. For them, it doesn't matter if the rest of the schools are closed. They need distance learning. So to avoid school holes, this distance learning is important. It's just to explain what the rationale is for us to go in and deal with it urgently. Then we have had the proposal from various quarters that we should have a longer reading; that is to say, a legislative trail that has the long variant, and we have chosen to say yes to that. So instead of setting the end date for this proposal that we are debating today, in April, as it was actually our original intention, we are doing a longer reading of it, so that the period for which this is applicable will be as short as possible, and in this context we have talked about this being 23 December. That is why we are tabling an amendment during the committee procedure, moving it from 3 January next year to 23 December this year. And it is simply to say that we are now dealing with urgent matters, but then it should apply for as little time as possible. Thank you to the parties that have put it in and made it as a proposal. Then a lot of questions have been asked along the way, and now I just want to say it from the parliamentary platform too: the legislation we are dealing with here makes no difference in relation to the number of schools that are open or closed. It is being dealt with quite differently, namely in the context of the epidemic law. So what this law does is to say that if there are schools closing down at the moment, few schools are closed because they have an outbreak in the schools concerned, it is possible for the schools concerned to carry out distance learning. As a starting point, this should not be done in the ordinary primary school law. It is the case that only if you are ill can you receive distance learning. However, some of those who have been repatriated do not have a positive coronatest and are therefore not ill and thus cannot receive distance learning under ordinary primary school legislation. Then technology back and forth. The situation would be that the schools closed down could not carry out distance learning. Of course, the children would rather be in school. But I think that both the children and the parents have at least been the feedback in the time we have had during corona... much prefer to have distance learning than nothing, and therefore, of course, this need. But thank you for the treatment, and thank you for the input that has come along. I hope that we will also receive good committee consideration, and then, of course, that we will receive good treatment in relation to the parallel legislative proposal that we are presenting to the Folketing on 17 November, i.e... in the coming week, when time has then been given for us to carry out an almost ordinary legislative procedure; the consultation phase is getting a little shorter, but otherwise it is common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111105437	There is a brief comment on Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111105440	First of all, I would like to thank you for your agreement that we can do this in this way, in which we ensure that the urgent legislative proposal here expires quite quickly and that we then do a regular process. But I actually took the floor just to ask the Minister to spell it out, because the Minister said a little bit about it. New citizens are saying this about the teacher just giving home some assignments. If that was the case, there was no reason why we made this law, so wouldn't the Minister spell it out so that every parent out there can hear it? What will the situation be for the students in those schools if the emergency law did not continue here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111105520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111105521	Then the situation will be such that emergency care will still be possible, because it is provided for in the epidemic legislation, and that means that for the few groups involved, there will be emergency care. It was during the entire corona shut-down below 10% that was the case. The remaining 90%. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether it is possible to give home assignments, but they will be entirely left to themselves, in the sense that the children themselves would have to come up with a structure in everyday life, and if there was something we learned from distance learning, it was that it made a huge difference, that distance learning was carried out, that there was something to stand up to in the morning, that, for example, there was something to be done in the morning. was a community around something. Well, there were some who did the most imaginative courses, even though the children sat at home and were taught remotely. Then everyone went for a walk around the block or around the lake, depending on where they lived while hearing the same podcast, and then met back at the screen with the teacher half an hour later. Then everyone had heard the podcast and then discussed it. All those things wouldn't be possible. Then the children would simply be discharged, as if there were vacation, except for the small detail that Mom and Dad did not have vacation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111105629	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111105646	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111105655	Thank you for the floor, President. The money for welfare must, as a minimum, follow when, fortunately, we become both older and more children. So briefly, the basic idea behind the welfare law can in fact be presented. Or, to put it another way, the framework for the welfare of future children and young people must be at least as good as the ones we have today, whether there is a red or a blue government in the future, but with the welfare law at least as good In 2025 there will be 14,000 more children under 6 years of age and 69,000 more Danes over 70 years of age compared to today. We are therefore faced with a growing need for expenditure, and this will inevitably result in a bill that cannot be paid simply with sole leather, efficiency gains and productivity increases. To claim it would be to blind the Danes. More specifically, public expenditure must rise by 8.5 billion. kr. Towards 2025, if only the level of service offered by the welfare society is to be maintained today. If the money does not come along, the welfare will slowly be eroded. We will not necessarily feel it in here, as a rule, we might even be able to get away with wiping it off in municipalities and regions, but it would not be okay. Because it will be our children, our young people, our sick and our elderly who will feel the deterioration that will result, and it will be the welfare that will ultimately pay the price. Social democracy will give the Danes an assurance by the welfare law that changing governments will set aside enough money for welfare, so that we get a bottom under the welfare society. It is not gold and green forests, but it is a bottom of the welfare society that we are proposing as a minimum. It is only fair because the Danes have delivered and are still delivering on the agreement we reached 15 years ago, which has created the sustainable finances and the economic space needed to strengthen welfare. I am, of course, talking here about the 2006 welfare settlement. Left, Conservatives, Social Democrats, Danish People's Party and Radicals then made a promise to the Danes: If you stay a little longer on the labour market, when you will live longer on average in future, we promise you in return that there will also be money for welfare in the future. To put it bluntly, the strengthening of public finances, which in the long term are the result of the new withdrawal system, is reserved to guarantee the financing of the welfare society in the future. It is in black and white in the text of the agreement. Yet we saw how a Left-led government under the bourgeois majority in the years 2016 to 2019 did not devote enough money to welfare. The planned public consumption growth was quite simply lower than the bill for demographic development. The Left was able to come to the end of the period when the election campaign approached, when the Left Party, with its usual sense of grandeur, promised 69 billion. kr. to welfare and gave the Danes a welfare promise that the money should follow when population development became another. At that time the Danish People's Party praised the announcement and welcomed the fact that the Left made a statement about the fact that economic policy, which we have tried to convince them is the right one, is also the one to be followed in the next parliamentary term. In June 2020, when we dealt with a motion for a resolution from Enhedslisten, B 166, which was identical in content with the welfare law, the Danish People's Party also had no reservations about voting in favour. That is why the draft law on welfare has been put forward with the expectation of broad support. This is partly because, of course, we expect the other parties behind the 2006 welfare settlement to keep what we agreed with the Danes, partly because of the fact that, of course, the Left is voting in favour of a bill that delivers on their own welfare promise. And, of course, the Danish People's Party will also vote in favour of a legislative proposal which is identical in substance to a resolution which has previously been supported. If the Left and the Danish People's Party do not support the welfare law, the welfare vow of the Left will be nothing but electoral bluff, and the Danish People's Party's vote in the Chamber will no longer be available for the party's policy. No one can possibly benefit from this, least of all the voters of the two parties or, for that matter, the Danes who want and expect the welfare that they have been promised with the 2006 welfare agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110148	There are a number of brief comments. First, it's from sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110151	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. When you read this, which is practically written as a letter of reading... I've never actually seen a bill as thin as what we're dealing with here, if anything as important as welfare... this isn't a welfare law, it's a spending law, a law that says the money needs to be spent. Looking at this, it is clear that the Minister of Finance must give priority to public consumption growth, that is to say, that the money must be spent. Will it mean, for example, when you make an energy island and release the funds where there has been a public consumption party, that you actually live up to the law here? After all, the public sector is both the state, the regions and the municipalities. How will the rapporteur ensure that when we grow older and it is, as the rapporteur says, very important to finance it then the money comes out to the elderly and they are not spent on everything else? Isn't it just a spending law, or is it really a welfare law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110248	What is in the draft law is in substance identical to the resolution which the Danish People's Party recently voted for. So I understand that the Danish People's Party is a little busy putting out a smokescreen in relation to what is actually the content of the law. Because it's quite clear what this law guarantees is that when we grow older and more children, the money must also keep up. That is quite simply what the welfare law is about. Then it is clear that we will not go in and undermine the Danish system of agreements that we have with the municipalities and the regions. We have confidence in the municipalities and regions. That is why we also come to as well as we have in the early years of the government's lifetime to make some agreements that reflect that the demographic changes when we make agreements with the municipalities in the future, so that out there, where you deliver on the close welfare year by year, you will have the opportunity to keep up with welfare, at least when we grow older and more children. That is what the law is about, and that is what the Danish People's Party has voted for quite recently, and that is why I have a very clear expectation that the Danish People's Party is, of course, also behind the welfare proposal that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110350	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110352	Now this is a bill; it is not a motion for a resolution, hello! The rapporteur represents the government and then it is said that in the past some slightly bad proposals have been voted for in here, and that is why some have been made which are just as bad on the part of the government. Oh, come on! If you vote for the bill here, you have no idea where the money is going. All you know is that taxpayers' money is being spent. But it is not certain that they are spent on core welfare; it is not certain that they go to children and young people; it is not certain that they go to the elderly. You have no idea if you vote for this. We are a welfare party, but listen to me, reading letters we don't usually debate in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110430	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110431	This is a legislative proposal which, in its content, is identical to what the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of in the past. That is why, at best, it is remarkable if we cannot just vote in favour of what lies here, where we guarantee that when there are more older and more children, it is also reflected in the municipal agreements that we make, so that the municipalities have the opportunity to prioritise welfare. After all, it is up to the municipalities to help the elderly and young people who need welfare to remain at a reasonable level, as a minimum. And that's what we promise them here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110502	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110505	I share the admiration of the Social Democrat rapporteur on the Danish People's Party. I'll tell you what. I really think it has its own beauty, that this bill is simple, clear and two the points, because it is precisely about, as the rapporteur also says, that the demographic move must be covered, which was not done under previous bourgeois governments supported by the Danish People's Party. That the Danish People's Party will now run from its previous agreements, I find it really a pity in such an important area as this, when you want to appear as a welfare party too. My question to the rapporteur is about something that the rapporteur also mentioned a little in his speech. This is an absolute bottom under welfare. This will not mean or necessarily ensure that the development of prosperity that is in society will be matched by the investments. This only concerns the demographic trait. It is all about the status quo and continuing it. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110607	This is a bottom beneath welfare. We can also look at the policy that has been pursued under the current government in cooperation with the SF. We welcome this cooperation. We have covered the demographic features, and once we have made agreements with municipalities and regions, we have ensured that when there are more older and more children, the money has been followed. In addition, we have made some very good financial laws, at the same time we have invested in both primary school, minimum standards, better care for the elderly and a large number of other things. If I do not remember quite wrong, with the overall economic priority we have covered the demographic trait and then put roughly the same thing on top of the public economy. So we've made a reinforcement. However, when we put forward the bill, it is because we can see that the blue parties have run from the very clear agreement we made with the Danes in 2006, when we agreed that when the Danes work longer in line with the increasing life expectancy, we will finance the welfare society. It's a good contract. And that's the contract that the blues have run out of and that the Danish People's Party apparently also runs out of, despite the fact that they confirmed that contract a very short time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110709	Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110710	I would also like to refer to that in my rapporteur's speech, so I do not want to spend time here, but I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur's party could be interested in us transferring the method of choice to the economic wise men precisely in order not to have a political discussion of the method of choice here in the Parliamentary Assembly every year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110736	We would like to discuss this with the SF. It's not a promise I'm ready to make here from the platform today. But what we have set the economic wise men to do is to look at, for example, the calculation models that we use in the Ministry of Finance. So there is already a close cooperation with the institution of the wise, which I think is sensible. So let us take a further discussion of what is forward-looking. However, I am very pleased with the support that is clearly from the SF to economic policy in general when we invest in welfare, and more specifically in relation to the legislative proposal that has been put forward in the Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110809	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110811	When there are more people in Denmark who need public service, more public service has to be produced. We all agree on that here in the Danish Parliament. There are two ways to go. One way is to spend more money on producing more public services; the other way to go is to produce more efficiently for the money you have and thus also to get more public service. Of course, you can also use a mixture where you both spend more money and produce more efficiently where you already spend money. In the private sector there are always productivity increases. Every year productivity increases by 1,2,3,4 or 5 per cent. Depending on the industry. Here we must then adopt a law which says that when we need more public service, there must be nothing from productivity increase. The cost must rise if there is 10%. more needs, there must be 10%. more money for the expenses. Is it not a little strange to pass a law that productivity should not be increased in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111110916	This is not an agreement that means that productivity in the public sector must not be increased. We have seen, for example, in the hospital sector that productivity has improved year by year. That's a good thing. However, to conclude, when we look at the demographic trait that we are facing, with more children and more elderly people, that this challenge can be met by productivity gains alone, I do not think it is serious. In any case, we do not agree with that on the part of the Social Democrats. So we would very much like to see productivity improvements, we would like to discuss how we can achieve productivity improvements, and we are also very happy to discuss priorities in the public sector. We have, for example, put forward ourselves with a significant priority in terms of the use of consultants, as we want to spend less money on consultants and more money on close welfare. We are happy to discuss this, but it is our starting point that if we do not meet the changed demography with more money, welfare will be worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111017	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111019	I did not say that the increased need for services from the public sector should be solved only by productivity increases. I said, that must also be possible. This is a law where you say that if you need 10%. more service because more young people, more children or more old people are coming, so you also have to increase the cost 10%. In other words, it excludes that part of the need can be met by improving productivity. Expenditure must be increased by 10% when demand rises by 10%. Is it not strange that there is a view of the public sector that it simply cannot solve part of the problem of productivity improvement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111057	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111059	I am glad that the Liberal Alliance does not believe that the only thing we should do with the public sector is to increase productivity, and if that is what I put the rapporteur in his mouth, I am sorry. But there's a disagreement. I believe that it is necessary for us to keep up with the demography of the money in relation to the public service. If, in addition, there are productivity improvements, and I believe that there is an increase, then there is also a need for us to invest in our public welfare. When I go to school classes, to the elderly centres or to the day institutions, I see a need for increased investment, and if it is productivity increases that make room for that investment, I would very much like us to make that priority in our welfare state. This reflects the other economic policy as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111135	Reason for that. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111136	I am a little curious, because I am standing here with the bill, and can I assume that the rapporteur has read it so specifically specify where it is that there is a guarantee that these funds will go to basic core welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111200	This is a law that guarantees that when we grow older and more children, the money will also keep up. After all, we have seen when we have made agreements with the municipalities and regions that we have added to their funding when we have become more children and more older. In addition, with our priorities in the Finance Act, we have made further investments. So this law ensures that the money goes with it, but it does not change the basic contractual system we have in Denmark, which ensures that there is a significant responsibility out there locally, because you are also closer to the welfare they have to provide to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111230	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111231	But when you cannot guarantee that the money is spent on basic core welfare, why make a law that the money should be consumed? Well, the government has the opportunity to sit and make municipal agreements every year. I mean, don't you trust yourself? Do you need to make a law to make some agreements yourself? Well, what's the point of this law when you can make economic agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111300	If I were certain that there would be a social democratic government forever, then the law would not be necessary. The rapporteur is right. I'm afraid I'm not sure. I think at some point in many years' time we'll see the government change. It is not certain that it will be in my lifetime or that of the rapporteur, but at some point. And when that happens, it is necessary to have a guarantee that the money comes with, because we know, wise of harm, that when the bourgeois sits there, they spend too little money for welfare. And I don't think the Danes can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111324	Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111327	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned that it was 81⁄2 billion. kr. needed to be found to cover the demographic move towards 2025. Now let's say you choose to use the 81⁄2 billion. kr. to fire consultants, to increase the public administration, fulfill an election promise from Enhedslisten about free dentist and perhaps also to increase the budget for Danmarks Radio. Let's say you choose to spend all the money on the four things. So I just want to hear, "Will you have lived up to the welfare law, yes or no?"
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111404	This welfare law guarantees that the money comes with us when we're more children and more older people. After all, it does not remove the scope of the policy, that is, there will still be room for silly priorities to be made. I would warn against doing so. But we're not gonna take away the work here in the Folketing, so none of us are gonna get out of work with this law. But what we do with the law is to ensure that even if Mrs Mette Abildgaard eventually comes into government in many years' time, Conservatives and Mrs Mette Abildgaard will also be obliged, unlike the last time they sat in government, to let the money keep up when we grow older and older. That is the essence of the law we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111440	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111441	The essence of this law is to increase public spending. The essence of this law isn't necessarily to provide welfare, and that's exactly why it's a misleading name. This is a consumer law, it's not a welfare law. What does the rapporteur say about the main organisation of the trade union movement, for example, in their consultation answer, which is summarised in the consultation note, saying: the draft law does not contain any commitment on priorities for demographics. It is therefore not certain that the demographic funds should be given priority to headings where there is a democratic feature. How can the rapporteur stand and promise that money will follow those areas when it is not in the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111518	What we do with the law is to ensure that when there are more older and more children, and thus the need to invest more money in our welfare society, the money goes with it. We guarantee that with that law. It is true, however, which is, of course, the essence of the rapporteur's question and also the consultation answer, that we do not remove the contractual system that ensures that, at the same time and still, we have to have a very great responsibility for our public sector. And I also believe that social democracy would be against it, and that would be a serious breach of the arm's length principle that we fortunately have in relation to municipalities and regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111552	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111554	After all, it costs money to deliver on what the Socialist rapporteur is saying. But what if the money isn't there? What if the treasury of the Treasury is under pressure? What is the value of such a welfare law if there is no money in the box to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111617	After all, the funding comes from a contract that we jointly made with the Danes in 2006. It is the agreement that is the main reason why we in Denmark have a viable state economy. And that's why we funded this promise to the Danes. We said to the Danes: if, on average, you spend several years on the labour market, we guarantee that we finance welfare. And that is the promise that the Left basically failed in government. And that is why we are putting forward that bill. So the money comes from the fact that we have a viable economy, and we have it mainly because of the 2006 agreement in which the rapporteur's own party is involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111701	Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111702	Fortunately, many reforms have been carried out which make the Danish economy much more robust than if we had listened to the advice of the Social Democratic Party for a very, very many years. I just ask the trivial question: if there is no money in the treasury for a year, is it the policy of the Social Democratic Party that money should then be spent which is not covered?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111728	If, as a result of setbacks, there is less money in the box or less money in it, then it makes sense to invest in public welfare, so that we push the economy. We've shown that under corona, and it's been amazing. That is why we have an economy that is stronger than ever. And then it is not to talk down in any way to the rapporteur, but what we need to be aware of is that when the Ministry of Finance makes the budget in the long term, it has been budgeted that we have public growth that is greater than the demographic move. So if you just leave everything straight and follow the law that we have here, you would build a significant public fortune.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111802	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111803	Thank you. It's important to find out the content of this law, i.e. whether it's just a signal policy, and that there really is no real content. What, then, is the Socialist rapporteur's intention to ensure nuclear welfare? How will it be ensured that Mrs Petersen is now cleaning not every three weeks, but perhaps every week, according to the needs she has? How is it to ensure that the funds go to the areas they are going to, and not to close some other gaps? Now the government has entered into an economic agreement with KL, and it was not received positively either by the disability organisations, who were out of a lot of criticism because they also wanted more funding for the disability area because, as the rapporteur says, this does not guarantee better welfare, because there is nothing in terms of how to ensure quality. How are we to ensure that the funds that are given are given to the right areas? So how exactly will this guarantee be given and better welfare for the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111908	Thank you, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111111910	As regards the municipality agreement this year and the previous years, we have made three municipal agreements. The three municipal agreements together promise public welfare more than the ten previous ones. The three we have made raise public welfare more than the ten previous ones. This figure is a figure that the Danish People's Party, with the welfare profile that the party has, must have very difficulty explaining. One must have extreme difficulty explaining that the bourgeois government was held in power, which de facto by not following the demographic move made cuts on the elderly, made cuts on our welfare. That is why it is also remarkable that the Danish People's Party is not here because it has recently voted in favour of a resolution which, in essence, is the same as what we are discussing here. Calling this a signal policy is as crooked as it can be. This is about billions of dollars for the most immediate welfare for elderly care, for schools, for our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112005	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112006	This is a much worse nonsense on the part of the rapporteur, because the rapporteur does not answer the question of how to ensure that these funds go to the elderly, that is to say that Mrs Petersen gets more cleaning and what the level of service will subsequently look like in the municipalities. Will we be able to see it at the service level? Will this be a significant quality boost? One is that more money can easily be provided, and I think that is what is needed when we follow demographic developments. But there is surely a need to look at what it is you get for the means and where it is they go. The Minister must, no, the rapporteur
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112043	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112044	It is the case that we have an agreement system in Denmark, where we create a financial framework for the municipalities under the current government, it is a good financial framework that is better than before. But it is also true, as the rapporteur refers to, that the municipalities have a responsibility for their close welfare. However, the condition for the municipalities to be able to provide good welfare is that we ensure that the money goes with it. The current government does so; the government supported by the Danish People's Party did not.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112111	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112113	I have a problem with the welfare law and it is not that it is too ambitious it is that it is too unambitious. And what is really the big problem is that the bottom under welfare that is being laid is only the demographic trait, which means that welfare is only just keeping its nose on our noses as we become more young and older, but that the welfare of lagging behind the development of prosperity in society, if welfare is only provided with funds corresponding to the demographic trait. This is something that I and the Enhedslist have had the opportunity to discuss many times with the Social Democratic Party. We simply do not understand why the development of our welfare should follow prosperity. So why do we make a welfare law that lays a base below the neutral basic course used by the Ministry of Finance in their calculations? After all, it should be the basic course of the Ministry of Finance that was the neutral starting point. Well, can't we get a better welfare law than what's being laid out here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112222	Then we'll get answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112223	Sir. Rune Lund, as always in both negotiations and questions, has managed even the smallest detail in terms of national economy. I think you should sign for that. That does not change the fact that, as a Social Democrat, when you stand on the platform and are thus also the spokesperson for a government, there is an economic consideration and a balance that we need to take care of. That is why, with the law here, we are saying that we are now putting a bottom under the welfare economy and covering the demographic trait, but the priorities we have set out in the Finance Act are, moreover, in close cooperation with Mr. Rune Lund's party, Enhedslisten, shows that we have a willingness to invest further in the public sector, that we have a willingness to make minimum standards, that we have a willingness to invest in psychiatry, in primary school, in better care for the elderly. So the political willingness is there, but the money has to fit, and that is why we can stretch the law, which becomes the starting point, so far that we cover the demographic trait. The rest we must do together with wise priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112328	I just think it's silly, now that we're discussing and making a welfare law, that you're going to make a bottom below welfare, which is lower than what lies in the neutral projections. And I also find it strange that we have now had two financial laws, both in 2020 and in 2021, where we have actually delivered on more than the prosperity-proof demographic trait, which means that we are making a definite recovery of welfare. Why can't we just get the neutral development as the base of welfare? That would be the most obvious thing. And when it is even in the neutral projections in the Ministry of Finance, we can do so while the economy will still be viable.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112405	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112406	I am personally, and I know this also applies to the government, proud of the agreements we have made with the Enhedslisten and the other parties behind the Finance Act, because, as the rapporteur also mentioned, they not only keep their noses on our municipal, regional and state welfare, but invest in welfare and make welfare better. Such agreements, such priorities, we would like to help make progress, too, along with those parties which support the government and which will help to take responsibility. What we promise here is a bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112440	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112442	As Denmark's new left wing party, we are, of course, pleased that we are discussing the welfare law proposal today. We would, of course, like to see more money being raised, but we can talk about that later in the debate. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is, in fact, whether it is now clear at the same time that the principles and distribution of the core welfare areas in our demographic model are being revisited. Is that something you're ready for now, while we're also talking about making a welfare law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112527	I think that is an interesting discussion. I am not sure that the time available to the questioner will allow the questioner to give more specific information to you and the rest of the audience on what is specifically meant. That's why I'm gonna take care of giving you some carte blanche. But I think this is an exciting discussion. I would say that some of what the discussion with some of the bourgeois parties reveals is that we are certainly not willing to undermine the model of the agreement we have. I think it basically makes sense for us in the Folketing to provide a financial framework for the well-being of the municipalities and, under the current government, a good financial framework for the well-being of the municipalities. At the same time, however, it makes sense for school policy and the care of the elderly to be carried out and organised as closely as possible to the citizen, namely in our municipalities, and very much with the involvement of local councils and other bodies, if these are the kind of close democratic institutions that the rapporteur thinks about with his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112621	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112623	We would, of course, like to see power actually in the local councils, and we would like to have a much more inclusive democracy. But I was really thinking about what's core welfare? What is core welfare in the field of disability? What is the core welfare of school? What about sports? What about culture? Is that part of the core welfare? This is the discussion, what we define as classical core welfare, and where we are now, in relation to whether Social Democracy is ready to open up this discussion and then say that what are we really defining as core welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112704	I think that is an interesting discussion and we are happy to take it. However, I believe that there can be a contradiction between things if, on the one hand, we define strictly what core welfare is and how core welfare is to be managed, and, on the other hand, we have the rapporteur's other perspective, which is that we have more influence locally. This is probably often the case when we discuss at Christiansborg. We would like to do better, but we must be careful, I think, that we will not, in this eagerness to make it better, be able to run retail in a way that will reduce the room for democratic communities. There I think the rapporteur's party has some interesting thoughts.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112735	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, and that means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111112749	The government has put forward proposals for a so-called welfare law, and with that law the government will oblige the government in office at any time to spend more money every year on welfare. The government doesn't say where the money's coming from, though. In the Left we therefore propose to change the law into a growth and welfare law, because with a growth and welfare law we will ensure that Danish prosperity increases before we can spend more money on welfare and that the money does not exist by raising taxes. In the Left, we agree that the money must follow when there are more children and older people. It was also a promise that we went to the elections in 2019 and that we have been complying with in our financial law issues since then, and most recently with our financial law issues for next year, which we presented yesterday. Having said that, we will not, of course, be voting in favour of the draft law as it stands, because we believe that the whole discussion should be turned upside down, because the money must be made before it can be used. That is the responsible approach. And that is why we in the Left are going to table an amendment which contains the following two elements and which is a condition for our being able to support the proposal. Firstly, we want to ensure that the prerequisite for increasing consumption in the public sector is that there is also growth in the Danish economy. Real growth in GDP for the following financial year shall be at least the same as the demographic trend in percentage. If it is not, then proposals must be made for initiatives which will permanently increase GDP in structural terms. In other words, we must be able to afford to raise welfare before we do so, and that is a political task. Secondly, we must of course have a tax freeze, so the economy of Danes and Danish companies is calm, because it must be the growth of wealth and not the taxes that finance higher welfare costs. And a tax freeze is needed in Denmark. Since the government came in, it has raised or proposed raising taxes over 40 times, and that is tax increases for 12 billion. kr. At the same time, government policy makes Denmark 14 billion. kr. poorer. The policy pursued makes Denmark poorer. And such a policy does not ensure that there is room for prosperity in the future. There is also a lot of symbolic policy in the government's proposal, and allow me to refer directly from it: the bill will not change the fact that the concrete annual welfare priorities are laid down in the Finance Act and the Economy & #x2; the agreements with municipalities and regions, as well as the service level&#x2; the level and number of employees in the individual hospital, care&#x2; homes, kindergarten etc. will depend on local needs and priorities in the municipalities and regions with respect for the contractual system with KL and Danske Regions as well as the democratic decision-making process in the individual municipalities and regions close to the citizen. Nor does the draft law concern the geographical distribution of resources. Well, it is now the case that the money cannot be used until it is made and that binding a future government to spend more money than it can obtain funding for is irresponsible. And what, moreover, is the consequence if the government's draft budget does not comply with the proposed welfare law by the government? So does the Finance Act drop out? No, of course not. 90 mandates for a financial law can at any time ensure that the country has a new financial law when the financial year begins. What does the government really expect the proposed bill to mean? Indeed, the government responds very specifically to this in the draft law, and allow me to quote: "The draft law is therefore not considered to have an immediate economic impact on the public sector. Well, then, what's the law for? one could ask, then, except that the Social Democratic Party went to the polls on a welfare law. In the Left, as I said, we stand by our vow of prosperity. We believe that when there are more elderly people and children, larger budgets must be provided. We need to cover the so-called demographic trait. We have already delivered this in our draft budget, regardless of whether there is legislation on the subject or not. But the fact that the Social Democrats have so much doubts about their own promises that they have to be made through legislation to live up to it must be almost the most logical consequence and thought when you look at this. So, if we are to support the proposal, it must, of course, be a coherent proposal, and it will only do so if it is supplemented by a tax freeze and a duty to ensure economic growth. Otherwise, it is just a proposal to promise to spend more money, which may not be affordable. We look forward to further consideration, but, as I said, it is of crucial importance to the Left that this amendment be adopted, otherwise it is just an irresponsible legislative proposal that promises to spend more money, which is not necessarily present, and we cannot support that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113233	Thank you. There are some brief comments. It's first, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113238	Why are the rapporteur and the Left talking about increased taxes and about a situation in which, if you follow the welfare law, the state does not have the means to cover the welfare law, when the rapporteur is well aware that public finances are viable, and is well aware that the sustainability of public finances is taken into account, that public consumption is therefore greater than what we are based on the welfare law? Why is this a way of speaking against better knowledge?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113311	I'm just dealing with reality. I think that is a good starting point when you stand on the platform of the Folketing. The reality is that we have a government that has implemented and proposed increased taxes for 12 billion. kr. We are dealing with a government that has made Denmark 14 billion. kr. poorer. In fact, I had not thought that I would experience standing on the floor of the Parliament and witnessing a government pursuing an economic policy that makes Denmark poorer. We have to go back to before the Schlüter government, so that a government has pursued an economic policy that has not helped to make Danish society more prosperous and secure more jobs and a more competitive society as well as ensuring that prosperity was increased. And if you will excuse me, I am very impressed when you have a government that conducts such an economic policy and at the same time raises taxes and charges. I just think that the Social Democrat rapporteur has to answer for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113406	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113407	We are proud of the economic policy we have pursued. It has led us to break all records at the moment in terms of employment, low unemployment and growth. I'd be happy to be on target for that. I am also proud of some of the tax increases we have made together with the Left. These are, for example, tax increases on cigarettes, which mean that fewer young people start smoking. I would very much like to see that addressed. Will the rapporteur of the Left also stand up for failing the Danes, for failing the promise made in 2006 to the Danes that when they work longer, welfare will also be financed? After all, it was a promise that we failed when we last sat in government because we did not cover the demographic trait.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113443	We didn't fail any promise. By the way, in 2015 we went to elections on a spending stop, but the reality was that from 2015 to 2019 we also spent more money on welfare. I believe that since 2001, public welfare expenditure or service expenditure in the whole of the health sector has increased by over 80 billion. kr., and it is because we have politically wanted to do so. We were not satisfied with the health care that the Danes met in 2001, where there were long waiting times and where cancer treatment was too poor. So we have no difficulty in adding extra money to the welfare society. We have done so historically.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113519	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113521	Thank you. In 2006, the Social Democracy and the Left concluded the welfare agreement, the welfare settlement, and that is what we traditionally talk about as the one that holds hands under Danish economy. After all, the whole point of the 2006 conciliation was to ensure the future financing of the welfare society. There we said together to the Danes that if you work longer • if we raise the retirement age, as the life expectancy increases • in turn, we can afford to have a welfare society in the future too. Can I understand the rapporteur's view that the Left is now running from the agreement we reached in 2006? After all, it was precisely about the future financing of the welfare society. And here we are, of course, with a concrete proposal that we must continue to finance the welfare society when more children arrive when more elderly people arrive. For four years, we had a left-wing government that failed to meet the promise to adequately finance welfare, and now we have to understand that the Left is running from the welfare agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113624	We are certainly not running from any welfare agreement. And I do not think it right at the fingertips that if we look at what the economic space is and how much comes from the welfare agreement and what comes from other things, it may well be that the Social Democratic Party is given a bit of a challenge in relation to how much room for manoeuvre the Social Democratic Party itself has actually helped to vote for. But let's leave it at that. We stand by the welfare agreement. It is vital that we have jointly said that, when we are in the happy situation, fortunately, we all live longer and longer, yes, we also have to stay longer in the labour market. This is an extremely important agreement. However, I do not understand why the Social Democrats believe that legislation is needed before the Social Democrats will live up to their promises. Without any welfare law, since we issued it in 2019, we have delivered finance laws that live up to it, and we intend to continue to do so, whether there is a law binding or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113718	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113720	Well, I am glad to hear that the rapporteur says that the 2006 agreement is behind us, because we are now in doubt. There will be no provision for the provision of funding to the welfare society. Efforts were made to bring forward the retirement age in violation of that agreement. De facto early retirement was abolished, which was, after all, part of the 2006 welfare agreement. And now that we have introduced a right to early retirement, we will also abolish those who otherwise compensate for the breach of the 2006 welfare agreement made by the previous government when it de facto abolished the post-retirement pay. So it is good to hear that the Left supports the 2006 welfare agreement. So why not also support the guarantee of funding for the welfare society?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113802	I think the rapporteur has simply misunderstood what we are dealing with today. There's nothing in this bill we're dealing with to ensure welfare. It guarantees more costs, but we cannot pay for expenses for which we do not have the money. We are beginning to understand why the former Minister for Social Affairs, Mr. Bjarne Corydon is a bit tense with his former party at the moment. I think he told a story in everything the other day from his childhood from 1981, I think it was where he had asked his father if he had voted as he used to, and then his father replied: No, we cannot afford that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113840	Then it's mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113841	I'd like to ask Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, whether the Left can guarantee that if the Left comes back into government at some point, there will be no economic policy in which no expenditure equal to the minimum demographic feature will be incurred. The question also means that the Left does not meet other parties ^ it could be the Conservative People's Party or the Liberal Alliance and yet does something other than what the Left today from the Parliament's platform says is the policy of the Left, namely to add expenditure that is less than the demographic trait. So can we get that guarantee? In any case, will it always be the case that the Left will deliver at least the demographic trait whose Left is in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111113927	One of the prerequisites that we are laying down in our economic policy is that the money should fit, and with the amendment that we are going to table, we say: if the demographic move is not covered by the real growth we are seeing in the following financial year, then initiatives must be taken to ensure that the growth of GDP is increased and thus to increase lasting prosperity. I think that makes sense. We have said that we will cover the demographic trait, but it is clear that this presupposes that the money is there, and if there is pressure on the brink and there are challenges, we will of course take the initiatives that ensure that prosperity can finance welfare. I would therefore like the Enhedslisten to be ready to take initiatives to ensure that there is also prosperity in society to pay for that welfare. But we are ready to take those initiatives. That is why we have put forward a proposal for a Finance Act in which we can increase labour supply by 25,000-27,000 people, which, of course, helps to ensure that prosperity in Denmark grows and that thus there is a means of welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114035	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114037	That's a lot of words. Can we have a guarantee that there will not be a government with the participation of the Left where something less than the demographic move is being delivered? That is one question. The second is: Torsten Schack Pedersen confirms that if the Welfare Act had been in force between 2015 and 2019, it would not have been possible to do what was done, namely to grant tax relief for 27 billion. kr., at the same time that you couldn't even deliver on the demographic trait?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114105	I am pleased that the idea of creating a blue government after the next elections is so pronounced in the Enhedslisten, but I think it is to anticipate the course of events in relation to what such a debate will be like. I just want to say what is the Left's approach, and I have already explained that. I mean, the value of such a welfare law as we stand with now, I just don't understand. Will that welfare law mean that a financial law that did not comply with the welfare law would be null and void? I don't think so. Will it mean that someone could be punished? No, you can't, because it doesn't say anything about that either. It is a declaration of intent, it is nothing else, and it just happens because the Social Democrats promised it in the election campaign. That's why we have to go through this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114144	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114148	Thank you for that and, in fact, thank you to the Left for giving us a clear message, because I think the Danes are actually entitled to do so. What I am listening to the Left saying is: we will ensure welfare if we can afford too differently one simply cannot interpret the answer that the Left chooses to give in relation to this law, which alone aims to ensure that when there are more and more older people, money is also included, and that when there are more and more children, money is also included. Yesterday we could read how older people have to wear diapers because they simply do not have time to help them in the bathroom in time. We need to use more medicine, and we see that there are people coming to bed too early. What is the Left's answer to the elderly, who fear that it can also be the future for them, and that it will only get worse and worse, because we know it will do that when there will be more and more elderly people in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114236	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114237	Well, I think it would be irresponsible to say, no matter what, you'll spend more money forever and ever. That is why we say: let us then commit ourselves together. If there are problems with funding or if there are problems with prosperity not being able to keep up, we must commit ourselves to taking initiatives to ensure that we are so prosperous a society that we can ensure that our elderly can have the dignified care of the elderly that they deserve, because I agree that these stories are completely unsatisfactory. That is why I must also say that, unfortunately, it is not just about more money, and I think that there is a lot of evidence, because if you spend more money without spending it wisely, there will not necessarily be better welfare. Therefore, I think it might be tempting to hear what SF thinks of this idea: Well now let us give the elderly more freedom of choice, so that the individual elderly have a greater influence on how the welfare that this elderly receives is delivered, for then the individual elderly can also choose where the most quality is. But we will ensure that the money goes with it, and if there is no wealth for it, we must create that wealth, and we would like to commit ourselves to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114347	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114348	I think it is a real shift of responsibility just to say that one cannot afford to make sure that money goes with oneself, while the elderly can simply choose one bad offer after another, because money does not come with it. Of course, when more people need more help, the same number of staff cannot continue to deliver the same quality. Those are the facts. I didn't tell my kids to spare food either because we couldn't afford it. Then you find a way to fund it. It's about making a promise that we're financing it so that older people don't have to sit in a dirty diaper and get put to bed early. Is it really so difficult for the Left to promise citizens that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114429	No, it's not. I am, in effect, pleased with what the SF said: if the money is not there, we will find a way to finance it. I think that is constructive. There we say that it should be in a way that does not result in increasing taxes and charges. We don't think the Danes should be picked harder for taxes. We may have a world record of taxation, but then we would like to take initiatives that increase prosperity so that it can be afforded. That is what we would like, because then there is a political commitment, and I would be delighted if the SF joined the group that says: Yes, of course we must have such prosperity that it can finance our welfare. I think that would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114506	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114509	When I hear this debate, I get a little curious, because it's like you're not voting for this, you're running out of an agreement from 2006, and this law guarantees that agreement. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Before this law came, had we had a Helle Thorning-Schmidt government which was socialist, was there, in the rapporteur's view, a welfare law there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114535	No, there wasn't. And if I do not remember quite wrong, it is under Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government that negative consumption growth in public consumption has recently occurred. I guess that's very telling. I am not quite sure that I share the interpretation of the welfare agreement in 2006 given by the Social Democrats, but then, according to their own perception of that law, the Social Democrats have at least been completely faced with red light when they had a financial law that had negative consumption growth in public consumption. I am familiar with the only time in the last 20 years at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114613	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114614	I fully agree that we are in a place where social democracy criticises social democracy for running out of an agreement that they do not think they should have made then. I mean, it's all a mess they're doing. But let them just drive down that path and exhibit themselves that way. Now you go ahead with these high growth rates that have been, and everyone knows that we've had a gap on supply and demand, and that's why these are bnp numbers as they are. When I look into 2025 and beyond, these are falling numbers, which may be about 1.3 to 1.6, and I look with concern at the growth figures. Is that a position that the Left shares, that is, that we must have higher growth rates precisely in order to finance the demographic move that is coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114709	We are one in agreement with that on the Left side. The best way to ensure better advice for the priorities needed for health, for the elderly, to give our young people proper education is to make reforms that increase prosperity. In our financial act, which we presented yesterday, we can deliver an increased job offer in 2025 at 27,305. It raises prosperity in Denmark and it is through reforms, and we are very ready for that, because this is the best way to ensure that we can afford welfare in the future, namely that we earn the money ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114736	Then it's mr. Alexander Grandt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114738	Thank you. The rapporteur says that this bill is just about a social democratic election promise, and that is true. This should also be the subject of the Left, because the Left had a promise that we would follow the demographic trend and that we would ensure that more money was brought to the elderly, to our young people, to our children. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen: When you are in a bourgeois block where the Liberal Alliance will cut 10%, New citizens want to fire hundreds of thousands of people in the public sector, and the Conservatives have reported clearly that they do not want to close the demographic move, where is it that the Left has to find parliamentary support for finance law under finance law and keep that promise and give more money to the elderly and to our children?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114831	Unlike the Social Democratic Party, which apparently has to have a law that obliges the Social Democratic Party to live up to its welfare promise, we in the Left have delivered the promise since the elections with the financial proposals we have put forward. And, of course, I find it strange that the Social Democrats will not help to ensure that there is also wealth to finance it in the future, but simply put forward a bill guaranteeing to spend some money without having any assurance that they will be there. I can explain what the policy of the Left is and I have explained it. I would like to repeat it, but what other parties think they must, as it were, stand up for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114913	Sir. Alexander Grandt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114914	After all, the Left did not deliver from 2015 to 2019, and that is why you can be in doubt whether it will then be delivered under a new Left Government. But if I'm just gonna get a little bit smarter on the matter of bnp growth: will this really mean that tax cuts have to be given before what the Left is proposing, that is, tax cuts have to be given before we can give more money to our elderly people?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111114940	I'm gonna have to correct a misunderstanding. The left in 2015 went to elections at public spending stops. We increased public welfare spending every year just to get that part of the storywriting. We are, in fact, concerned that the money is there, and this presupposes that we have a wealth. We do not believe that higher taxes are part of the solution; on the contrary, lower taxes can help to increase prosperity and thus the financing of our welfare societies. Of course, tax relief must be financed. It goes without saying, but initiatives that increase our prosperity are needed if a so-called welfare law like this is to make sense; otherwise it's just hot air.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115020	Thank you. Then it's mr. Brian Bressendorff.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115022	Thank you for the floor. It may happen at some point that the majority of Danish politics change, and if that happens, we will have a blue block with a Liberal Alliance that wants to cut 10%. in public spending, with a new citizen wanting to remove 100,000 jobs from the public sector, and with a Conservative who has also stated clearly that they do not want to put a bottom under welfare. Will the rapporteur not consecrate us a little of how the Left sees it, that there should be money for the future welfare of all of us, and how we should be able to keep a bottom under welfare if we are going to make government with the other blue parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115108	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115110	The very best way to do this is to increase the prosperity of society, because the richer we are as a society, the better we can afford to finance the costs and investments in our welfare. And that is why I am so sorry that, as I have said, we have, for the first time since 1981 or 1982, a government which has implemented an economic policy which has made Denmark 14 billion. kr. poorer. This does not, of course, increase the opportunities to finance welfare in the future, on the contrary. I would say that if there is any consensus among the parties mentioned by the rapporteur, it is of course important that we ensure Denmark's prosperity. Then there are various wishes for the welfare society, and I can also hear that there is in the red block. I have given a clear answer to what the Left is saying and what we are going to stand on, and that is what I have explained. But I think it would be responsible if the Social Democratic Party were to help ensure that there is also prosperity for this so that it is not just automatic costs where the bill ends in the children's room.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115214	Sir. Brian Bressendorff.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115216	I do not quite know whether I think the rapporteur is answering the question. At any rate, I think that all the money that has to be taken away from the public sector is being avoided slightly, not least all the employees who obviously also have to be removed from the public sector. Because in recent days we have heard about nurses running faster and faster, so there are no employees. We hear about our care centers, which also lack sosu's. I do not really believe that many places can be found in the public sector where our employees are not already running fast. So I would really like to hear again: how do we get this bottom under welfare if we have to cut the public sector at the same time?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115257	It is not the policy of the Left to cut the public sector, and I think perhaps the Socialist rapporteur actually hits the mark in relation to some of the challenges that exist. It's because it's hard to get hands. And then instead of reducing labour supply in Denmark, as the government has done, it was possible to take initiatives that increased the supply of work, so we got some more hands, so there were more nurses present, so there could be more sosu's, and so there were more who could work in the private sector and thus increase prosperity. But there the government has just pursued an economic policy that has reduced labour supply by 10,000, and that does not make it easier to get people, nor in the area of welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115332	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115336	There is simply no end to the bad excuses from the Left for not supporting this bill. The Left rapporteur keeps talking about extra taxes and one thing and the other. This is an absolute bottom under welfare. In fact, if we were only to deal with this problem of covering the demographic feature, the rest of society would run away from the public sector, because this is precisely not saying that we should have covered the increase in prosperity. So alone with this, the rest of society will become richer and richer, and by comparison, the public sector will look more and more miserable over time. Fortunately, that is not what we have seen from the government. In fact, we have had a cooperation in which significantly more has been invested than the demographic trait alone. But you won't even say you want to cover the status quo. And, of course, it is on condition that you can, because there is an exception clause that says that if you suddenly landed in a crazy financial crisis or something like that, then that would not be the case. I simply think it is too bad that we will not even say that we are going to cover the status quo, which is not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115448	Well, that's what we've been saying and what we've gone to the polls for. That's what we've been delivering since the elections with the financial laws we have. And it's been a prerequisite for us... It was also clear in the election campaign in 2019 that we will do so without raising taxes and taxes. So can it be said that you mentioned something about prosperity keeping up? No, but it was quite natural in the economic policy that the Left had stood for for decades, namely that of course one must pursue a policy that makes Denmark richer. And should we have foreseen that we would have a government that for the first time since the beginning of the 1980s made Denmark poorer? It may be that our wealth of ideas was too poor to predict it. But the money has to be there before it can be used, and since we promised in 2019 we have been able to deliver financial law games that live up to it, because we believe that there must be additional funds when there are increasing demographic features. We don't disagree with that. But, of course, we can deliver that in our financial law, whether there is a welfare law or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115544	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115545	It's so bizarre to have to listen to this whole thing about us becoming poorer as a country. We've come through an extreme event like Corona, the biggest crisis since World War II, without any giant minus. Because we have invested together, we have made better progress on the other side than perhaps any other country with which we can compare ourselves. We have a strong economy. We have a towering occupation. And then we're gonna keep listening to this. However, it is the Finance Minister's own fault, as long as we stick to the kind of arithmetic models that say that when you make sensible legislation like an Arnepension, we all suddenly become fucking poor. Sorry, thanks.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115628	I am glad that the rapporteur finally acknowledges that I understand it is hard for the SF • that when you use the Ministry of Finance and the finance minister's calculation model and statements, yes, then the economic policy pursued has structurally made Denmark 14 billion. kr. poorer. I just think it's sad. I think that there would be much more ambition on behalf of Denmark if we wanted to make Denmark more prosperous and thus free up more resources for initiatives that promote both the private sector and the public sector. That is what we are preoccupied with, instead of unconsciously promising that you just want to spend more money without having the certainty of having it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115707	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115709	First of all, recognition: the rapporteur says many times that more money was spent on welfare between 2015 and 2019. That's right. And then one observation: the money was not spent enough to cover the demographic trait, which was the left's electoral vow prior to the last election when a welfare vow was made. And here comes the revelation: Today you run from actually delivering on that promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115746	No, we're not running from any promise. The welfare promise we made was 69 billion. kr., and we could do it without raising taxes. Then we will have to honour that promise, which must be linked to the fact that there will be no tax increases. So the Social Democrats can only endorse our amendments and then we have come a long way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115808	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115810	I think that if the Left wants to live up to its electoral vow, it is totally unproblematic to vote in favour of this, so that you live up to your electoral vow. That's what this bill is all about today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115822	Then perhaps we are at the heart of the matter, namely that this is about the idea that, when you were in opposition, the Social Democratic Party got the idea of making a so-called welfare law, but it is of course no guarantee that the money will come, because even in the draft law it has been written that it may well be that there are some exceptional cases where it does not apply anyway. When we then say that if we are to do this, it is clear that there must be a presumption that there is a tax freeze and that initiatives will be taken if the growth of the economy is lower than the demographic trend. I understand that the Social Democratic Party will not be involved in this, and then it is just a promise to spend money that is not financial cover for it, and I do not think that there is much music in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115902	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. We shall continue with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111115918	Thank you. When you listen to the debate and have read the bill, I really don't know what to think about it. I would like to start by saying that I have great respect for the Minister for Finance and I have great respect for the position of the Minister for Finance. It is one of the most important ministerial posts we have in the people's regime. That is why I think it is a little too bad that we should be discussing such an important subject on such a bad basis. It is quite clear that this proposal is intended as an input in connection with the municipal election campaign that is out there. But when you think of welfare, it's actually one of the most important things we discuss in this Parliament, and yet you pull it down to such a level here. It's called Bill No. L 57, but it might as well be a reader's letter No. 57, because it's at the level we're here. I'm actually gonna be a little sad about that. For what are we really able to do in Denmark? What kind of society do we have? We are one of the richest countries in the world, but we do not actually have much. We do not have precious stones, we do not have much oil, we really do not have much. As a matter of fact, all we have is our people. That is the only thing we can invest in: our people. It is our people who have made us one of the richest countries in the world. It's welfare. It is schools, it is care for the elderly, it is everything else, but it is also professional services in the municipalities. It's not just cold and warm hands. It is also important to have a local plan that you get it and that it has a good quality. It is important that we have some good roads to drive. It's all kind of welfare. Nevertheless, we have had a proposal to ensure welfare, and we would like to do so, but we would also just like to have a debate on what is then a welfare challenge that we are facing right now. If I take my own municipality, which is Guldborgsund Kommune, then I can count on the figures from • 10 per cent. of the population in a few years over 80 years old. We are very happy that we live longer, but there we have a welfare challenge, because we have to finance that when you become more caring. And we are so rich a society that we must give proper and dignified care there. There must also be room for one to have the right over one's own life. It should not be the case that when you grow old in Denmark, you lose all your dignity. You're searched for everything. You're searched to go to the bathroom. You're searched to go to bed. You're searched to get out of bed again. If you say you want to go to the cemetery, you can get the answer: Well you are not searched for that, Mrs Jensen, so you cannot come to the cemetery and look at your husband's and your family's burial place; you are not searched for that. That is the debate that must be held: what quality should we have in our welfare? Yes, it costs money, and we are in agreement with the government in this respect, and that is also a little the challenge here when it comes to taking this debate. I'm surprised that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, who was the rapporteur first, has not really read the proposal, because if the Left then asks what happens, if there is suddenly no money, it is actually very good because it says that the commitment does not apply under exceptional circumstances, for example. in the event of severe economic downturns. So that has actually been taken into account, and one could have just replied to the Left when they came up with their questions. So you got these things under control. But then there is the content, and that is something you choose not to deal with here at all. It's not politics. Sorry to say this, it's just that we're playing something and saying to the citizens: we need to spend some money now. But it is not just about spending the money; it is also about spending the money on what is right. The worst of all is that when you read through the bill and there are a little many pages and come about in the financial context, the Ministry of Finance writes: "The bill is thus not considered to have immediate financial consequences for the public sector. So when all the red rapporteurs have got up and said that this law will give a lot of money, that money is now coming out to the public, it is not new money. It is certainly not to be financed. It doesn't cost anything. What kind of debate do we have here? Then we must have a completely different debate. Then we shall have a debate on how to spend the money we have. How do we ensure that we have proper welfare? How do we ensure that when all young people leave primary school they receive youth education? In fact, we have a common goal across parties: 95 per cent. of a year must have an upper secondary education. We haven't made it yet. And we probably agree that the only resource we have is our citizens. That is the debate we are going to have: what are we going to do with the money? But no, it has to go down to a low level, it has to go down to the level of reading letters, and I really do not think it suits the Assembly that the debates we are going to have should go down to such a low level. We think the intention to have a welfare law is right. We kind of seem to be and we'd like to finance it when we get older when there are more customers in the store, if you can use the expression that there is also a need for some more money. It's going up and down. Then it may be that at some point in 20-30 years, there will be fewer older people, but more young people, and that is the area that needs a boost, so that we can ensure that we have a primary school and some day institutions with good quality. This is the debate we are going to have in here, instead of having this simplistic debate that as long as we spend the money, it is good enough. So there's the picture of sending money to care for the elderly, and then you say: yes, yes, but then we'll just buy Mercedeser for all the home helpers, because then we've spent the money, and then we have a high level of service. But we didn't get a better service from that. I think this should go back to the engine room, and then we should have a proper debate about what kind of welfare society we want and what we want the money for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120438	Thank you. The first brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120442	One senses that the rapporteur is on the outskirts of the arguments available when one starts to say that it is safe to buy Mercedes for home care in the municipalities. After all, I don't think that's gonna happen. We can easily take long debates, and we can even set up study groups across the parties on the contractual system and how we organise the public economy, and I am very happy to take part in that. But I'm gonna have to ask you quite simply, sir. René Christensen: When a little more than a year ago we voted in favour of a resolution identical to the proposal for a welfare law that we are discussing today, the Danes could see that they voted in favour of it, and could see that the Danish People's Party was ready for a welfare law, and that this was what was voted in favour of it. How can it be that you are not ready to vote in favour of a welfare law today, which ensures that the money follows when more older and more children arrive? I am in favour of the rapporteur making some comments on the quality of the legislative proposal and others, but let us take it in committee. But when you voted for something identical a little more than a year ago, why not vote for it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120548	It's very funny about something like this that's rehearsed. I hear they've done that in the whole red block. The Danish People's Party has not expressed whether we will vote in favour or against. Where did the rapporteur get that impression? I did not say it in my rapporteur's speech, nor did I say it in my brief comment. I would just like to say that we fully agree with the intentions. Then it's kind of weird. At one point, a resolution was tabled which was not considered to be very consistent and which was not considered to be very good and which is why the government is now making one which is similar. Come on! You know, a government must be able to do something of a better quality than what we have here today. I find it embarrassing, and I think it is a pity that we should be discussing welfare in this way. There is a welfare law is actually a step in the right direction, but if we are to make a welfare law, we have to make a welfare law that has value and quality for citizens, so that we can see that we get better welfare, that we get better care for the elderly, that we get a better primary school. That is the goal for us as politicians, and not just to send out signals that are on Facebook. Well, come on, this is the Parliament Hall, and this is the Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120650	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120651	This proposal is not about Facebook or signals. It's about billions for welfare. We're not gonna argue about that, because I'm gonna lie down as the first one. I had been given the impression that the Danish People's Party was critical, and if that is not the case, an unreserved apology must be made on my part. The Danish People's Party must be praised if they vote for the welfare law. I hope that this will be done, because the impression was given to the Danes that this would be done by voting in favour of an identical motion for a resolution. Therefore, I can use my second question here to ask whether the Danish People's Party is ready to vote in favour. We can, of course, discuss during the committee's work whether we can improve quality, but are we prepared to vote in favour of the money being kept up when there are more elderly people and more children?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120730	We can vote in favour of all good legislative proposals, and for that matter we can also vote in favour of resolutions. I would just like to say that when you make this proposal and use one rapporteur's speech after another to say that there will be more money and then you cannot read that the bill says, as it has been put forward, that it has no economic consequences, it is hokuspocus. That's not true. That's because you want to send a signal about something that isn't right. In fact, more money is needed for welfare. And please stop keeping it at this low level; I don't think it's worthy. I think this discussion is so important to Danish society that you can't drag it down to this level just because there's municipal elections on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120805	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120809	Thank you. I think it is nice to hear that the Danish People's Party stands by what has been said before, namely that the money should keep up. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also says quite clearly that both when the motion for a resolution was supported and today in the discussion of the welfare law, that is the guiding principle. So if you take the starting point that the Danish People's Party actually wants to support it here, could I not get the rapporteur to say what it is that the rapporteur would like us to clarify in the bill, so that the Danish People's Party will support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120842	Absolutely. We would like to support a welfare law that supports welfare. Well, what the bill here says is that it is public consumption growth. It doesn't say what to do with the money. After all, the public sector is both the state, the regions and the municipalities. It could be anything you spend the money on. Well, it's just that if mr. Ole Birk Olesen, who sits down there once became a finance minister, could use it for what you wanted, because then there was an expense pressure. It could be for increased infrastructure or other. It will be entirely in line with the letter contained in that law if it is approved as it stands today. Of course, we need to define it. If you make a welfare law, you must also have defined what welfare is. And that is where we believe that care for the elderly, day care institutions and primary education are core welfare, and when we talk about welfare, that is it. The infrastructure and all sorts of other things are, of course, too. But we would very much like to focus on what is the challenge at the moment, and that is, among other things, that we live longer. We want to help finance that, and we want to make sure that there is money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120939	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111120940	Actually, I'm not quite sure I understand. It sounds a little like the rapporteur, as if you would like to see local self-government put out of effect, so to speak, that you would like to have more detailed management. Is that where the dog is buried, so you'd like to say: Now we're locking them to this area or we're locking them to this area? It sounds a little like an excuse for not supporting it and committing itself to actually delivering the billions needed for welfare. That is why I think it is going to be an attempt to get out of that squeeze rather than a real discussion on how to ensure that we actually have the money to raise welfare. And I would like the rapporteur to put a little more words on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121023-2	Now the rapporteur says again: secure the billions. This proposal does not come up with a penny, and that is what the draft law says, i.e. that it has no economic consequences. There's no billions on this. So it's a bluff, but that's why welfare is really important anyway. This is where politics will be difficult. Yes, when the former Social Democrat-led government gave the elderly billion to the municipalities and then told them what to do with it, it was used in the area of the elderly and elsewhere where they wanted to use it. As soon as they joined the block subsidy, we saw that such things as the clipboard scheme, among other things. vanished quickly in the municipalities. That's the first thing you spared. In other words, the little self-determination that one had when one had grown older was removed in the municipalities. We love municipal autonomy, but sometimes you have to help a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121106	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121108	Now the rapporteur touched on some of the questions I wanted to ask. The rapporteur must forgive us for our confusion, because we are voting in favour of a resolution and then we will not vote in favour, or perhaps we will, of a legislative proposal that is completely identical. And we have a rapporteur on the platform who is himself sitting out in the municipality of Denmark, whom I a little hear the rapporteur would like us to make unemployed in here or what? Well, there's municipal self-government, so can't we if we can get to each other a little bit more clearly about what's going to happen? Should the welfare law in the rapporteur's optics and in the DF's optics be even more specific, so that the demographic trait, for example, is that of the European Union? should also be covered in the annual economic negotiations with municipalities and regions... is it somewhere? Or how firm should it be in DF's eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121212	I know you can't ask questions from up here, but I'm surprised that the SF is defending a bill from the government, which has been called welfare law, but where there are 0 kroner. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go. There's no 1 kroner. Into this bill for increased welfare, not DKK 1.! The government itself writes that in its comments on the bill. It has no economic consequences, i.e. 0 kr. There'll be no more money. I just wanted to say, and there I actually thought that Dansk Folkeparti and SF agreed that some more money is actually needed. More money is needed for welfare, and that is why we need to have a debate on how to also ensure that the money goes out there where we want it. After all, the SF has proposed that we should have minimum standards for day-care institutions, and if it is to lock municipal self-government, then it is quite crazy. In other words, there is really something to be locked up and say that no matter what economy there is, so much money needs to be spent in that area. Why is it not the elderly, why only the children are interested? What about the senior area? Does it have no interest whatsoever in the red parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121309	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121311	But the rapporteur can ask me all these questions when I stand up there. In other words, we have a debate in which, when you stand on the platform, you answer the questions you are asked to the best of your ability. I am actually asking in all curiosity because I want DF to be able to vote in favour of this proposal, and I will come up and tell you why SF supports it. But can't we get some answers? Well, what's it gonna take? Is it minimum standards in all areas of welfare that are needed? Should this also apply to the economic negotiations? I just don't think it's clear what it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121347	I agree with that. And, of course, I shall answer the questions that are being asked; I agree with that. It is just the case that the argument is that at some point there has been a motion for a resolution for which the Danish People's Party has voted. Yes, because we agree with the intentions of a welfare law. Then there will be a bill, and then it will be used in the argument that the government and all the great state apparatus have now copied that resolution and will make it law. Listen, this bill doesn't contain anything. It doesn't contain any money. All that is new here is that you commit to covering the demographic move and spending the money. And it's not even new money, it's just the money that usually comes in price and salary projections and everything else. You have to use them, but we all do anyway, no matter what colour the government has. This is meaningless, and that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121434	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121435	That's exactly the only thing this bill can do, after all, is actually protect against what happened between 2015 and 2019, namely that the demographic move was not delivered, at the same time as tax reductions were agreed for 27 billion. kr. This exercise will not be possible if the welfare law presented today is adopted. Well, that's the substance of it, and I think it's too unambitious, and I think it should be much more. And there is room for much more in the economic space in the projections of Denmark's economy made in the Ministry of Finance. However, the rapporteur cannot recognise that this protection is, after all, contained in this proposal for a welfare law, namely that it will not be possible to do what was done between 2015 and 2019, where the demographic move was not delivered and, at the same time, tax relief was granted for 27 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121536	Yeah, I'm buying that argument. The challenge is just the way the bill has been formulated, that is that welfare is just all. When we speak welfare in the Danish People's Party, we speak very much care for the elderly; we speak the dignified life, both for children and adults; we also speak the good primary school. We cannot be sure that it will at any time use it for what we think the money should be spent on. There is also politics in that, we are not sitting here in the Folketing just to spend the money, we are sitting here, because we want to channel the money to where we think it gives the most value. And there we have no influence by just voting in favour of this proposal as it stands here. It can be used on anything else. It's all about the money being spent... not what it's spent on. We want more quality. Because we can see out there, as I said before, that we have not even achieved our goal of 95 per cent. This is important in a country such as Denmark. It is also important to have the right to a dignified life when you are older and dependent on your care. These are some things that are interesting when we talk welfare, and we do not have that discussion with this proposal • unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121642	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121643	But what does it take for DF to vote in favour of a welfare law? Should it be that we deliver at least on the demographic trait, calculated on both municipalities, regions and states? Or should it be that, for example, we... at least delivers on the demographic trait of what could be defined as close to the citizen's welfare? There you could, for example. be based on the municipal account plan and look at it in relation to the social area, the elderly area, health, etc. That would be a tightening up compared to what is now in place. Is this how I hear the Danish People's Party that you will vote for something if it involves a tightening up based on some of the ways of doing it that I mention here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121722	Absolutely, and it is actually rare for us to see a legislative proposal coming forward here without having had a prior discussion. And it may also just show that you want to send a signal, too, because there is no money set aside for it either. Because if you do what is coming from the Enhedslisten's side I think that is actually interesting proposals, and that is also the way we think about when we think about welfare; then it is more well-being among the citizens. You cannot have a text in which it says: 'The draft law is therefore not considered to have immediate economic consequences for the public'. Then when there are more customers in the store, it will also cost something extra. When we live longer we live longer with the challenges that we as people have • then it also costs something more. That is why I would like to say with regard to the intentions that we can vote in favour of the title, but there is hardly any substance in the proposal. So I really hope that you invite some discussions where you can make real policy and actually do something for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121813	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alexander Grandt, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121816	Thank you. The rapporteur says that there is not really any money in this proposal, but that is not quite right. After all, we have a government that is budgeting every year for the demographic move to be covered, and that is like the prerequisite for our financial law in the future. But that is not confirmed by law. This is something that a political majority now wants. I can see from everything that when it comes to the bourgeois wing in here, the Danish People's Party is the only party that actually has the same political desire to cover the demographic trait. Will not the Danish People's Party join with the so-called welfare majority in creating a welfare law to ensure that the money goes with the elderly, to the young people and to the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121903	Yes, we would like to take part in that, but the proposal that we have before us does not guarantee that. With this proposal, we're just making sure there's some money to be spent and they can be spent on anything. We do not ensure exactly what is said by everyone from the platform in this Chamber, namely that it goes to the children, to the elderly, to the welfare and all the good that we want. We're not gonna make sure of that at all. We ensure a cash flow and we secure the money flow that has already been decided. Then I would say that the demographic move is probably 0.6%. Or something like that. I don't remember any financial law that's been a lot underneath it. What one can almost fear is that someone could use such a law as this one negatively by saying: now we have reached the 0.6% that has been passed by law, so we should not get over it. It would be a disaster to do so every year, so you only had an increase in consumption of 0.6%.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121953	I would like to make a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Alexander Grandt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111121959	I understand the rapporteur's concern. The rapporteur would also be concerned if it were Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, who was Minister of Finance, so of course I can understand the concern that exists when you are part of a bourgeois bloc where you are the only party that will ensure the funding of welfare. After all, we cannot write into the legislation that the Danish People's Party will forever have power over how welfare crowns are to be distributed in this country, but what will it take for the Danish People's Party to support this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122029	It is easy to define in a bill for a welfare law what the contracting parties define as welfare, that is, that it is a dignified care for the elderly, that there is a proper primary school, that it is a good quality in the day institutions. We can easily define that in a welfare law if we want to. 90 mandates can do that, and so it is law. Then I would also like to say that when you want to spend money, you also have to be willing to find it. You cannot spend money until you have earned it, and I would just like to say that I have more confidence in the other side of the House when it comes to getting the money. On this side, you're good at spending the money. We want to help spend the money, but we also want to know where it comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122104	Thank you. Then it's mr. Brian Bressendorff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122109	Thank you for the floor. Both the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party were part of the 2006 welfare settlement, and there we said very, very clearly to the Danes: If you stay longer in the labour market when you live longer now, we will in return provide that we ensure welfare. Does the rapporteur think that we have fulfilled that obligation? And does the rapporteur think that you can go out and look the Danes in the eye and say that you have delivered when you supported a government from 2016 to 2019 that did not even throw enough money in the public sector to cover the demographic move?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122155	I simply cannot stand here on the platform and speak down the whole public system and all the employees employed in the public sector and say that nothing works in the public sector. There's really, really much that works well, and then there's just some places where we're really challenged. After all, it is the challenging places that we should be interested in, and one of the places where we are most challenged is the area of the elderly. That's because we're getting older, and we're super happy for that in the Danish People's Party. We're glad we live longer. We are also happy that we live longer, even if we are challenged. But we also want the life we live, even if we have grown older, to be dignified, and we must also have the right to self-determination over our own lives, even if we have grown older. This welfare law doesn't matter at all. We need some substance in it. The title is fine, and there's really not much else that's good in this proposal. So I really hope that some negotiations are called for so that we can get some quality into this. Then we'd really like to join in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122247	It is possible that the rapporteur misunderstood my question, but my question was actually quite clear, i.e. whether we think that the commitment and what we promised the voters, the Danes, back in 2006 with the welfare pact, namely that we want to keep our hand under welfare, that we want to invest in welfare, that we want to ensure that when people are longer in the labour market, there is also money to secure them when they get older. Does the rapporteur think that we have fulfilled that obligation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122318	The Minister for Finance has made an infrastructure agreement totalling 144 billion. kr. It has been decided that energy islands should be made for 210 billion. kr. It's welfare money according to this proposal. It's just money being spent. Yeah, so a lot of money has been spent. But is there a lack of money in the care of the elderly? Oh, yeah. Absolutely. But why does the proposal here say nothing about care for the elderly? A great deal of money has been spent over the last 10-15 years in Danish society, and I would not say that they have been spent incorrectly, but there are just some places that have not come along. We've also been part of these big deals. But the way to get around with this law is to make big deals in other areas in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122356	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122359	Thank you. In my daily cooperation here at Christiansborg, I have very good cooperation with the rapporteur's colleagues on among others. Health, the elderly and the disabled. After all, I think we have a lot of common agendas that are about us wanting to ensure that people have a dignified life, and I still think that is important. There would be a lot of legislative proposals that I would have to vote against if it were the case that they all had to live up to all my premises. Nor do I think that the rapporteur is thinking that that is what we should do, but that we should try to find solutions so that we keep it under. I simply do not understand the rapporteur's answer, because it must, after all, be better to add to the demographic characteristics rather than to do nothing, in other words, and in this way, in fact, starve the welfare areas more than we have already done. But if we at least make sure that the money goes with them when there are more older and more children, regardless of the fact that they are not earmarked... we can work to make them stay... I guess it's better for the municipalities to have more opportunity to deliver on welfare than they do if they don't get the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122510	I totally agree if it was just like that. It's just not like that. We do not know whether increased consumption is taking place in the municipalities or in the regions, or whether it is just the state that is increasing its spending. You don't know that if you vote in favour of this proposal. The draft law obliges the Minister for Finance to give priority to a public consumer party at all times. The public is everything. So I am very much in agreement with the rapporteur. When I hear the word welfare law, I am thinking the same thing as the rapporteur's, but if you vote in favour of the bill as it stands, you may be lucky to get it, but you may also be unlucky to get the opposite, and that is not good enough. Well, we're going a lot further down. I think this is one of the most important things we need to discuss, and then we are discussing it on such a thin basis because there has once been a resolution, and then the government has not been able to make a bill that was better than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122601	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122603	I understand the rapporteur's view that it is not a 'no' to a welfare law that can ensure that the money goes along when, in reality, the demography says that it should be done, but that it may be a question of some wording that needs to be slightly different. However, the principle that money must follow when there are more and more children and more and more elderly people is supported by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122627	Yeah, totally. But that is just not the discussion we have today. If you look at the law, it is not really a welfare law, it is a spending law, where you put a bottom under what the cost should be. And it's rather problematic to measure welfare by how much money you spend. Today it is actually the same when you look at the service I think that many citizens do not know and have a service index of 100, so it's not about how good a day institution is; it's about how much money you spend per. child. But you can spend a lot of money and have a bad service. So, we need to measure much more on the product, on the quality. We want talented schoolteachers, we want skilled sosu assistants, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122705	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111122724	I would like to congratulate the government on this bill. I think that is quite right and we in the SF are very happy about it. Then we can discuss the more concrete elements of it, and now we have just spent some time discussing with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether it should be done more or what it took to meet each other. But the background is precisely that we can see that, when public services are not invested in public welfare, there are limits to what can be made more efficient. It is a song we have heard for many years that one can simply streamline, streamline and streamline, but there are limits to how effective one can look after children or the elderly or how strong one can run in hospitals. There are also limits to the speed with which sick people can be operated, and that is the thinking that has affected us and that has been so dominant in here for a long time and that has made our welfare society underfunded, and that is what we are now seeing around with the educators. I have children in a day care center myself, and I sometimes find it heartbreaking to hand over my children very, very young children where there are 12 children for two educators. And we hear one story after another about our elderly, who are in nursing homes and who do not get the care that they should have, who are told that no, there is no time to go to the bathroom, and you are also wearing diapers, and we see our nurses now saying: Stop, that's enough, we can't run anymore, we need some better conditions. And that is the result of many years of under-financing in the public sector. Then the DF's rapporteur makes a very good point: if we simply demand that more money be added to the so-called demographic move, so that, when there are more children and more elderly people, the corresponding amount goes with it, then it can be spent on many different things. It can also be applied to everything else, and that is true, but it is the basic conditions of politics that we must always negotiate with each other about what the money is to be used for. I do not want to say that we on the part of the SF will stand in the way of this bill becoming more specific in relation to the constraints that need to be imposed, i.e. on this, for example. also has to be something that needs to be reflected in the economic negotiations with municipalities and regions, and that is also why I tried to get the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to be a little more specific: what is needed to make it a real welfare law in the eyes of DF? I didn't think I got that answer in concrete terms. I hope we can talk more about that. This proposal is an absolute bottom... an absolute bottom... under welfare. It is merely a continuation of the status quo, as we are doing today, when it is said that the extra money will be added as more older people and more children arrive. That is not enough at all, and we need to invest and give a boost to our welfare. That is why I am also pleased and would like to commend the government for the fact that in the agreements we have made over the past few years, there has been double-crossing of welfare, in relation to just guaranteeing the demographic trait. When you have starved the public sector for so many years and we have also had a financial crisis that has also cost us so much on welfare. The financial crisis has actually cost us 200 billion. kr. Every year in welfare staff you have a huge backlog that we are not near to correcting. So this is an absolute bottom. If we simply covered the demographic trend in the coming years, while at the same time becoming richer and richer as a society, then the rest of society would appear much more desirable and the private offers also than the public sector, which would look similarly more and more miserable as the years went by. That is why we in the SF will also fight for what we call the move of prosperity, so that when we get richer out in the rest of society, we also have to invest accordingly in our welfare societies. Because what else is the point? So, what is the point of us always talking about growth and getting richer and richer if we do not also talk about what we need the money for, if we do not also talk about that it is, because we want to have some better treatments in hospitals, that we want to have something better care in nursing homes, that we want some more educators for our children? If we are constantly talking about just growth and growth and forgetting to talk about what we need the money for, then we have lost sight of the important thing. I would say a little technical about the bill and what we in the SF would like. We would like it to be DOR, in other words the economic wise men, who were in charge of the choice of method, namely how to calculate it, and that is because we have had a discussion for many years on the calculation models in the Ministry of Finance. And now I can see that I am going to end, but at least that is something we would like and maybe we would like to table as a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111123304	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111123307	I am a little curious, because we already have the highest tax burden in the world, and public consumption has historically been increasing, even more than demographic trends. How is it possible, then, that we have the situation out there, as the rapporteur describes, where a quarter of the elderly do not think they are properly cared for by the elderly, and where the rapporteur is insecure about delivering his children, because there are not enough educators to accept and when mentally ill people cannot get help? In other words, it should not be possible if we are talking about spending money, because a great deal of money has been spent on increasing public spending in all the years that have often been more than the demographic trait. So is it not also an indication that the money has been used incorrectly?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111123356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111123357	I would like to start by saying that I actually think that at least in the institution where my children go, the educators are real heroes. Well, I think it's crazy what you can do. However, I think there are many of us, and I also know that my colleague, who is the health rapporteur, has also had a close look at life, what it means to have a parent in a nursing home where you think that what is going on is by no means right. And that is how I think many of us have experienced it, and then we have so different political answers to what needs to be done about it. I would like to come to the rapporteur in such a way that, of course, we spend the money incorrectly in many places. Some of it is retail management that makes no sense, one of it is bureaucracy and minute tyranny and everything else. After all, we have been discussing this for many years, and none of us have actually found the right solution. I do not think that there is any party here in the Danish Parliament that has a great wish that we should just have something more unnecessary bureaucracy that can remove warm hands from cold. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111123503	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111123504	But that's what this law does: it just adds more money without addressing what the money needs to be spent on. And then we can stand in 2-3-4-5 years and then even more money has been spent, but we still have the same stories as the rapporteur himself says there are. And that's why this law is really just a consumer law, where there's no obligation whatsoever on what this money's going to be spent on. One could, of course, make a law which said that the money must follow the citizen, so that the citizen is guaranteed, in relation to the fact that this money, which one looked at, is secured all the way to the individual institutions, all the way to the individual nursing homes, and that they are not just going to the municipalities, which have historically shown that when they get more money, a very large part of them has actually been used for increased central administration and management.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111123554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111123555	Well, if it can get New Citizens to vote for the law, I would very much like to talk about how we can better earmark the money for welfare. So in SF, we're not opposed to changing this law so that it even more fulfills what we want and lives up to the name of a welfare law. We're not. But I don't think that's it, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen wants or wants. This simply ensures that the financial framework is there to meet what we are at least some parties who say we will, namely to ensure that our level of welfare as an absolute minimum does not go the wrong way than what we have seen over many years. And then we can have different wishes about how much we have to invest in welfare. But it is true: it is an economic framework, and then we must take the political battle within it about what the money is for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111123657	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111123712	In the years to come, there is the possibility of at least as it now appears, of putting more money into welfare in the finance laws and with the agreements of the current government with municipalities and regions. That's welcome, because that's what we need. In the Radical Left, we have the area of children and young people in particular as a priority in the coming years. And the reason why there is money and the opportunity to give priority to the money for welfare in the future is because reforms and measures have been made to ensure that there is growth and development in our society, that many people are at work and thus earn money that is taxed, that many companies are growing, and that is also taxed. And so there's a bigger cake in the treasury that you can distribute. We are very pleased about this, because I believe that we have been involved in the vast majority of the actions taken over the last few decades which lead to our economy being so strong. And these are the kinds of initiatives that need to be taken if we are to ensure welfare. This law can only be changed by a majority of the Folketing. We must remember this: if, in one day or one year or seven years, there is a majority who chooses to spend the money in our common economy in a certain way, then they can adopt it. That's why it's kind of like a re-discussion when parties here today say this law guarantees welfare. It depends on which financial laws will be made over the next two years, 10 years, 20 years. And, of course, it is the voters and the people and the parties who are elected by the electorate who have to decide. I mean, this law can just be changed when you make finance laws every year. When we vote on a Finance Act here in the Folketing, there are plenty of votes on all kinds of proposals, and there may also be part of the vote on changing a Welfare Act. So what matters is the finance laws. That is where economic policy is laid down in the Folketing and in Denmark, and that is what is done every year. This law then sends a signal of what you might be using the money for, if there is a majority for it in the future too. And we're afraid that can send a signal that you don't have to think new around outside the walls here; that you just extend the present by plus a few percent every year and don't do development, innovate, think new, use new technology, but just extend the world by boards. In the same way, it may also be desirable to pursue, for the sake of various crises, a policy on the economy, as we call it a little technical, i.e. that we should, for example, adopt a policy on the economy. in a single financial law will spend extra money from the common funds to push the economy, then the year after or the coming years to cut a little, because the extra activity has now been created. So that is, we think, an unwise way of binding one another so that we cannot pursue short-term policies and ensure that new ideas are put in place. And, as I have said, if there is a party or a majority of parties that may wish to cut the welfare society in four years' time and have a majority, then just do so. So fiscal policy is laid down in the Finance Laws and in agreements with municipalities and regions, and that is where we would very much like to give priority to the money that we have helped to raise in the Radical Left for welfare in the coming years. But that depends on how the multiples look and who the voters have voted for. So, as a starting point, we do not intend to support this law, but of course reserve the possibility that all kinds of negotiations can take place. But we're not going to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124104	Thank you. Then there are a few comments. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124108	First of all, I would just like to pay tribute to the Radical Left for, I think, rightly taking credit for the fact that the Red Government, as we have at the moment, has led the Social Democratic Government to pursue a responsible economic policy. I think we have made some good financial laws together, good agreements that make Denmark greener, and that strengthens Denmark that gives us a Denmark that is stronger and fairer. I think radicals deserve praise for this. Then I would say that it is true, as the rapporteur also says, that a law can be changed. That is why we desperately want a law that is adopted widely, for example with the Danish People's Party, with the Radicals and with other parties, because as widely as possible it offers the greatest stability. I would just like to make one comment: the rapporteur makes it sound as if with this law we are binding on each other that there must be no improvement, nor are we binding on each other that things cannot be made wiser in the public sector in the future. That's not true. We're not gonna tie each other up. We have also agreed together that savings should be made on consultancy services so that we can spend the money wiser. So there's no binding in this law, compared to we can do things smarter. On the contrary, I think we should continue to discuss with each other how we can do this in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124219	That's the last thing I'm happy about. I also agree, of course, that this is not ruled out by one hundred percent. But I don't think there are some people sitting around in the welfare society thinking: well, we're ahead of us getting some money, so this project of trying to make things a little faster and a little smarter, using some new technology, we don't have to, because we've been promised extra money in advance. Isn't that how most people around the community will think? Therefore, it can have the effect of not doing so, even if it is not explicitly stated in the law. At least that's what we fear. At least you can't be sure about that. That is why we think it is wise to discuss year by year when you make financial laws and agreements with municipalities and regions, how we organise the welfare society best, what has come of new opportunities since last year or since two years ago, and not to say in advance that we are just doing the same plus a few percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124316	Thank you. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124318	I really have considerable confidence in public employees, and I also believe that with the structure that we could possibly adopt with the welfare law here, one would be in a situation where, if you make productivity improvements or make things smarter, you could use your strength on something else. There I think that public employees are very much motivated by doing things better and not spending time on something that does not add value. So I'm optimistic about that. In addition, we can make agreements with each other on an ongoing basis, such as in the field of consultancy, where we make priorities together, of course, at the state, but also at the regional level and at the municipal level. So let us focus on the fact that there has to be a bottom under welfare, but also a focus on making it better out there day by day.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124400	I also have confidence in the civil servants. But I also believe that people are so designed that they do not think new unless there is a challenge they have to solve. It could, for example, be done. I would also like to refer to bureaucracy. If you know that you only get extra money in advance, will you look at abolishing some bureaucracy? You've been promised extra money for it in advance. That is why it is wise to pursue an ongoing financial policy and not to commit ourselves to doing some things in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124431	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124435	Thank you. When the rapporteur says that we agree on financial laws, as we usually do, once a year, and that we make agreements with municipalities and regions, I cannot help asking the rapporteur whether it is really only in society that we have to be innovative or whether some innovation could also be brought into our way of thinking. One thing at least is that municipalities and regions, to a very difficult degree, are even calling for something more predictable in relation to the future. They know there will be more and more elderly people, they know there will be more and more children, and it is a huge threat to very many municipalities and regions how to overcome it. Then such a law as this could not make sense, at least to say that we are providing a bottom under the economy, when we know that there will be more elderly people. Well, that's pretty obvious, isn't it? And we also expect that there will be relatively more children, because fortunately there are many young people who want to have children again. So it is, of course, expenses that must be borne. Doesn't that make any sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124536	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124537	But we cannot secure a bottom, because in two years' time a majority will be able to adopt something else in five years' time. And at least every four years there must be parliamentary elections, where the electorate can vote in a majority, which will cut welfare if they want to, so that it does not guarantee a bottom. What I, on the other hand, agree with Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen is that we could start to look at whether or not we could do this, and the government has started to do so, and to praise them for the multiannual agreements with municipalities and regions. For example: I know that in the area of construction, for example. build a school over a number of years, or whatever you think about. And you can know if you want to make a long-term investment, for example. In the field of social protection, can this work be carried out for a number of years? I'd be willing to discuss that. But this law in itself does not guarantee a bottom, because, as always, a majority can change it according to what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124634	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124635	At least it ensures a bottom for as long as it applies. But then it is clear that if someone comes and changes it, it will no longer secure a bottom. However, I would really like to arrest the rapporteur's view that innovation out there in the public sector only happens if you feel pressured to do so. I can think of plenty of places where innovation has created significantly better conditions for citizens, for patients. Just a gallstone operation when I was young, it took 14 days, today you can do it with a binocular operation in a couple of hours, and then you'll be home again. Or, for that matter, in connection with technology where glucose sensors are a fantastic remedy in relation to diabetic patients, but regions cannot afford to use it, even though it is an amazing technology that gives patients a better life. So it is really a sign of the opposite, rapporteur, that you can actually innovate out there, but you just have to be able to afford to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124732	I agree that innovation can come from many areas, but I also believe that if you know in a hospital department that next year there will be 100,000 additional patients with, for example, 100,000. gallstones, then you sit and think about how it can be made cheaper, because it could then, for example, release some money to the psychiatry. But if you have the impression in advance that you just get one for one exactly with all the extra patients, it is not certain that you look at how you can make it cheaper to release money to the psychiatry somewhere else in the health care system. That is why I think it is wise to sit every year and weigh up what you think is most important to spend money on and where some gains can also be reaped.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124811	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124817	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a few questions about that. It is said that this is such a bottom, but where does the rapporteur see the guarantee that it is a bottom? In other words, we have municipalities that are themselves more efficient in the basic core welfare areas, and now they just get more money that they can include in a pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124839	Well, it's true that when you allocate money to municipalities, including this law, you can't be sure what the municipalities are spending the money on. I know, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen • We are both from Aarhus • We have campaigned a lot on what he thinks Aarhus Municipality is using the wrong money. So it is true that you cannot know what the money is being spent on. And it is not certain that the individual citizen will see his or her welfare increased because the money will be spent on some other people who need welfare. So you cannot be sure of that; no, we cannot run every citizen's meeting with the welfare society from in here, and neither should we.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124918	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124919	No, absolutely not. One of the proposals we have had in New Citizens is to allow the money to be more closely followed by the citizen in the basic welfare areas, so that the citizen will have greater freedom of choice, whether it is public, private or who he wants to use, but also to ensure uniformity for Mrs Jensen in Hirtshals and Mrs Jensen in Horsens and Herlev, i.e. that it is the same means that comes with. It will actually lay a bottom, so it is ensured that at least a minimum of service can be provided out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124949	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111124950	Thank you. And now I think I understand the question a little better, so it might be that my first answer could have been more sharp. However, I think it should be possible, for example, that one should be able to do so. in Herlev chooses to say that you would like to spend more money on children than they have chosen to do in Elsinore, where they have then chosen to spend money on something else. I think there should be that possibility, because in this way we must have our local democracy, where those elected by the people as city councils and regional councils can carry out the priorities they have been mandated by the electorate. So we cannot standardize the welfare from in here, and neither should we.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125025	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125043	The legislative proposal we are discussing today is that money should be found each year for the so-called demographic move. In short, this means that there will be no deterioration in our day care institutions, nursing homes and hospitals, as more young and older people arrive, so welfare must keep its nose on, but no more than that. This is really an unambitious starting point. In fact, the welfare law does not quite live up to it either, because the calculation of the demographic trait which is taken into account also involves the calculation of healthy ageing, which is based on the methods of calculation of the Ministry of Finance, which deducts an amount from the demographic trait on the basis of some assumptions that, when people get older, our population will also be healthier during their lifetime. But as among others... A number of old-age researchers have pointed out that the calculations used by the Ministry of Finance are far too optimistic. Therefore, this bill, if adopted, will put a bottom under welfare, but in fact it will not, in the view of Enhedslisten, put a bottom under welfare, which really corresponds to the demographic trait, not least because of the Ministry of Finance's methods of calculating healthy ageing. However, the welfare law will also be adopted if it is adopted, as it is formulated in the version here today will be an improvement. And that will be the one and only reason that it will be a protection against what happened between 2015 and 2019, when bourgeois governments made tax reliefs, which in lasting effect will cost approx. Twenty-two billion. kr. a year, at the same time as not even delivering on the demographic trait. It will not be possible if the welfare law, as presented here today, is adopted. That is why, of course, Enhedslisten supports the bill as it stands, but we would very much like to make improvements to it, not least to look at how to get a bottom under welfare, which is not the demographic trait, but which is the prosperity-proof demographic trait. And what's the difference? Well, if we take the Danish health service in 1950 and say that until today only funds were to be provided corresponding to the demographic trait, it would mean that the Danish health service, the Danish hospitals had followed, compared to the fact that today we are more young and older, so that we are a larger population than we were in 1950, but we would have a health service that was exactly the same as in 1950. If we are to make sure that our health or well-being in general also follows with time, in relation to society becoming richer and there is a development in our welfare, we must at least increase the cost of welfare every year corresponding to the prosperity-proof demographic trait. And we can actually afford that too. The neutral projections made by the Ministry of Finance in their projections also include the possibility of making a projection of consumption in municipalities, regions and states corresponding to the prosperity-proof demographic trait while at the same time having a massively sustainable economy. That is why we must do this. In addition, I must also say that I am struck by the way the debate is running today.I really do not miss the way in which economic debates were conducted from 2015 to 2019, when we saw blue governments juggling around with figures and presenting dishonest presentations to cover the fact that what was prioritised as number one was tax relief, which was given for at least 22 billion. kr.; that is the lasting effect. Among other things, they did. also lower taxation on the property owners, which will cost a two-digit billion amount over the years, with the housing tax agreement of 2017. That was the first priority, and then there were bits left to welfare. And then they tried to juggle the numbers and pretend there was enough money for welfare, which there never was. The demographic move was not even delivered from 2015 to 2019. We hear the same argument today when Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen says that speaking together in crowns and ears was added more money for welfare. Yes, you did, but you didn't add enough, compared to what it takes to avoid deterioration and cuts as more young and older people arrive. And that's what's the main point of it. And I just have to say that you have zero credibility when you, as the Left, use figures in this way to be able to say at all what we hear in these debates that others had to misrepresent the figures. It is the Left who has been excelling in it for years and who is doing so today. So I have to say that this really is something I do not miss about the years 2015-2019, that is, the way the figures were produced as a government at the time. But this is a safeguard against the worst cuts in the public sector; it will be a safeguard against what happened between 2015 and 2019. That is not enough at all, but it is, after all, a step forward and therefore the Enhedslisten supports the welfare law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125550	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125553	We may not agree on the political issue, but leave it at that. For this has to do with dishonesty or honesty in what is being presented. I am wondering something about this bill and I would like to try to hear the rapporteur's opinion on it. The summary table says what economic consequences this could potentially have for business, and it says zero, and I wonder, because one could imagine a situation in which we have a decline in the economy, a decline in GDP, but where we have this welfare law, so money needs to be provided in this area, and this is likely to be done either by increasing the debt or by levying increased taxes. And you can't continue to increase the debt, so you need to increase the taxes, so it would probably also increase the burden on business. So I wonder how you can put forward this proposal and then say that it has zero consequences and will always have zero consequences for business. We cannot really guarantee that, at least not as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125654	I can explain the technique. The technique of this is that the Danish economy is so strong that this tiny bottom under the welfare, which this welfare law implies, is that you just keep your nose shut, as we become more young and older there is plenty of room in the Danish economy, even when we look at the neutral projections that you make in the Ministry of Finance. And that is why it is written as it is done. And that is also why it is completely incomprehensible to me that some people are trying to produce it, such as. Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, President-in-Office of the Left, has done so, as if this were a luxury trap. That's why it's written like it's done in this bill. The ambitions should be much higher, and that would also be affordable in relation to the neutral projections that I explained in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125753	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125754	Yes, but that presupposes that all the other money is spent in exactly the same way in society, while at the same time doing this. And if you put it as a premise that at the same time you want to spend the money in the same way over the coming years, then there will be a lack of money because of this. You can't just take out such a tiny piece and say it doesn't matter. Yes, it does if you spend the money at the same time on exactly the same things you did. That's the problem with this. So you can easily be in a situation where we have a decline in the economy and you're going to be missing this 8.5 billion. kr. Where are they supposed to come from? Well, I guess they have to come from the citizens and from the business community to finance this welfare law; they can't come from anywhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125832	I think that discussion is rather curious, because there are other parts of the way we spend money, where we have committed ourselves to a certain objective of spending a certain number of funds, for example. as a percentage of bn or bnp. In other words, if you take such a thing as research, we have a political objective that we in Denmark should invest at least 1%. of gross domestic product in research. There is development aid where we have a goal of spending at least 0.7%. of development aid. There are some parties which have a NATO objective of 2% spending. of defence expenditure. In other words, it is nothing new to say that you have a goal of spending a certain number of funds. This is nothing new at all; the new thing is that we say that welfare should at least keep the skin on the nose. Everyone should be able to back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125923	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111125925	If I'm not completely wrong, it takes something like 2.5 billion. kr. to cover, in 2022, the demographic features as calculated. Now financial law negotiations are under way, so let us say that Enhedslisten is showing up with this desire for free dental treatment for all young people. It is estimated that it costs 750 million. kr. A little funny is that the price that has been calculated does not take into account the fact that more people are going to use dental treatment, so it is probably even more expensive, so let us say that it costs 1 billion. kr. Let us now say that the whole promise of free dental treatment is being fulfilled for all young people under the age of 15 and 20, but that means that the law that has been passed here does not really provide enough money to cover the demographic trait, because one chooses to prioritise some of the funds for free dentist for young people instead. Is this law worth anything? Have we seen with Enhedslisten's glasses lived up to what was the purpose of the welfare law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130020	This welfare law can't do much, but what it can do is to be a protection against what the two bourgeois governments did from 2015 to 2019, when tax reliefs were agreed, which each year have cost approx. Twenty-two billion. kr., at the same time as you didn't even deliver on the demographic trait. If the welfare law here is passed, you will not be able to do it again without changing the law, thereby increasing the political price for pursuing a policy that was conducted from 2015 if we adopt the welfare law. That's the essence of this law. It is unambitious, it is not enough, but it is, after all, a safeguard against the reduction and deterioration of welfare that occurred between 2015 and 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130106	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130108	But this is a total symbolic policy, because if there are 90 mandates to spend money on tax cuts in the future, then there are 90 mandates to remove this law. And what's the problem with that? Well, then you are in a situation where there will be some red parties that will say that we will abolish the welfare law, as if when you abolish the welfare law, you are abolishing welfare in Denmark. So this is, after all, a rhetorical symbolic struggle in which we try to secure the future if there are 90 mandates for tax relief, which I would argue can also provide welfare to the individual Dane and more freedom to use the money for. Is this anything but symbolism policy and an attempt to make sure that in five years' time you can say to us: Now you are abolishing the welfare law and removing all welfare in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130153	This law will mean exactly what I mentioned before. What I was so sick of about the way we discussed economic policy under the bourgeois governments from 2015 to 2019 was knowingly giving priority to making tax reliefs, which greatly benefited the richest, and then there were bits left to welfare, and then you pumped up the figures and counted several years together and said that more was delivered in crowns and ears, although the reality was that the demographic move was not even delivered, which meant that there were deteriorations, that there was a erosion of welfare and that cuts were made. Priority is given to areas such as criminal justice, our tax administration and the disabled. Various areas of welfare were starved and hollowed out because tax relief would be granted on a large scale, including to the richest. This will not be possible without changing the welfare law, which is why the welfare law is a step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130245	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130256	However, it is not so often that you have to drive the platform so far down after a speaker. The welfare law we are discussing here today is simply the implementation of a social democratic electoral promise, an election promise of welfare. But this isn't a welfare law. It's not that simple. This is just a law that promises and increases public spending. As it says, and I quote: "The draft law obliges the Minister for Finance to give priority at all times to growth in public consumption which (at least) corresponds to demographic developments in the coming financial year. However, increased consumption does not necessarily lead to increased welfare. It also says, and I quote again: 'It is also noted that the proposed model does not impose constraints on public consumption growth, so that the money should be given priority to certain categories of expenditure. In other words, you are obliged to spend more money on your own, not on what you spend your money on. So you can actually spend all the money you now get in the box, on public administration, on consultancy services, because it is also included in the consumption statement. It is also written in black and white in the draft law we are debating today. That is a very central criticism of the answers to the hearings. Older People The criticism of the case is summed up here in the consultation note: the law should impose requirements on the protection of democracy of the parts of public consumption affected by demography instead of total public consumption. And I understand that the Elders cause may fear that the money will be spent on anything else. For the proposal also says directly, and I quote again, 'The draft law will not change the fact that the specific annual welfare priorities are laid down in the Finance Act and in the economic agreements with municipalities and regions'. So if there is a support party for the government that wants, for example, to use the money for free dental treatment, to which I asked Mr. Rune Lund just before, or a party that wants to finance the abortion treatment of Polish women in Denmark, which has also been proposed from the same party, indeed, it will also be possible to do so with the means provided by having this welfare law to ensure a development that follows the demographic trait. In addition, it is basically crazy to have a law that obliges us to have a given consumption but not to have a given income. Try to consider transferring that principle to your private economy. As Danish Occupation writes in its hearing answer: There is no guarantee that there will be money for the rising costs that the bill per year. Automatics will result. That is why it is also beyond my comprehension that the draft law can say: the draft law is therefore not considered to have an immediate economic impact on the public sector. ▪ For this will have such financial consequences for the public sector. So it's just a basic wild signal to send, that welfare is always equal to more money; that it's always what it takes. I think most of us remember the documentary with Else, who was so miserable, so undignifiedly treated. There were enough hands at work that day, but the hands that were at work did not take their responsibilities seriously. They treated her so disrespectfully. It was no more money that needed to be spent there. We can't equate it, that is, that the solution is always to spend more money. Our Conservative Welfare vows like this we also have a saying: we want to guarantee that we will not be the ones who promise the most money away. There are many other parties that can take that role. But we'll promise to spend enough money. Because we also have parents who go to a nursing home. I have two daughters of my own who go to day care. Of course, we want to ensure that there are enough hands to help those in our society who need it. But there must also always be a motivation for us to do things wiser, that we do things better. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party cannot vote in favour of this welfare law. And I must admit that I think this is the wildest symbolism policy, and I can already predict that if this is implemented, which I thankfully do not think it will be, then it will be such an easily communicative truth that the bourgeois parties will remove the welfare law and that the welfare law is what guarantees things. Without a welfare law there is no welfare in Denmark. This is the kind of newspeak on a new level you're delivering with this bill, and I don't think it serves our people's government. It is also an illusion that the welfare of the future has now been guaranteed in this way, as if there cannot be 90 mandates to remove this again. But I recognise that it would be difficult to remove what you call a welfare law, because then you make it sound like you don't want welfare in Denmark. But I would also just like to insist that welfare is about something other than public spending. For me, it is also welfare if we can give the tax relief to a family that makes it possible, for example, to give priority to mother going down in time to better go home and make family life hang together or that father chooses to do so. It must be entirely up to the individual family. For me, welfare is not alone in what we can use in the public sector. So we're not gonna vote for this welfare law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130810	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130813	I just want to ask whether Mrs Mette Abildgaard cannot confirm that if the welfare law had been in force between 2015 and 2019, it could not have been done, as the Conservative People's Party, among other things. It helped to ensure that the demographic move was not delivered, while at the same time tax reliefs were agreed, which will cost around 22 billion each year. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130838	It is quite true that there was a political majority which gave priority to tax relief in those years. We did so because we are one of the countries in the world that has the highest tax burden on the Danes; where, when we go to work, we deliver the largest part of what we earn to the community's treasury. So, yes, it's a real one. That was a political priority for us. But as others have also said, the last time there was a negative increase in consumption was during the Thorning Government, where I am quite sure Enhedslisten was part of the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130907	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111130907-2	We had many conversations with the Thorning government about this and especially with the SF in the government at the time. But now we have a social democratic government which, fortunately, has partly come to terms with better thinking and comes up with a proposal for a welfare law which, after all, will be able to avert the worst cuts in our welfare. We are in favour of this, because then we cannot provide the tax incentives that we would like to give, including to a large extent to the richest, while pretending to put welfare high without doing so because we are burying it. I have one question. I guess this thing about having specific objectives about what you want to spend on something as a percentage isn't alien to the Conservative People's Party. We have a goal to use 1%. of our gross domestic product for research. Conservatives think we need 2%. of our bnp on the military, a NATO objective. So it is no wonder in itself that one has such an objective. I guess it's more interesting what you want the objectives to be. And we support, for example. research, but not the military.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111131005	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111131008	It is quite true that we Conservatives are in favour of meeting the international commitment we have made in relation to the proportion we are applying to our defence. We believe that all countries should fulfil that obligation. Then I would just like to say that one of the major challenges we face in our welfare society today is the lack of hands, that is the lack of labour. I see it constantly in the area of the elderly, where I am the rapporteur. Let us now say that by giving people some tax relief, giving them the opportunity to keep a little more to themselves, we could increase the motivation to put that extra hour on the labour market, taking the extra night shift at the nursing home, so that we can also help to provide welfare in the end by getting the hands out on the labour market that are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111131048	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens. It's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111131055	Thank you. I have sometimes seen the Luxury trap, and then I have wondered how people can get into the crazy consumption and have no more control over it. I'm thinking, how is that possible? But now it all makes sense, because how can we expect the people to have a responsible economy when there is such a bill from the government backed by the socialists that we are discussing today? This is a bill to just consume and consume and consume without making sure there's money to consume. It's quite irresponsible. Then you can try to wrap it up in classic punks about the fact that it is about more money coming into the public sector when there are more elderly people and so on, that is, what we call the demographic trait. And it is quite natural that if there are many more older people, some money must also be taken into account. That is why, in the economic plan of the new citizens, we have actually allocated money to the demographic move. However, it does not exempt a government, the municipality or anyone else from looking at their public finances and looking at how they spend money in general. And what we are doing here is putting up the demographic move as a useful excuse for continuing with the irresponsible and unnecessary greasyness of politicians, of citizens' tax dollars year after year. We have the world's highest tax burden and we have one of the world's largest public sector. There is no shortage of money in the public sector. On the other hand, there is a lack of decent political leadership and respect for citizens' tax dollars. But the crazy fuss that goes on everywhere in the public sector does not mean that the Social Democrats and the Socialists want to end it. Let me give just one concrete example: we are constantly hearing the socialists complain about the high salaries in the private sector, which we, as politicians, must be completely out of the question, but what about the high salaries in the public sector, for example. municipal managers and others who can earn more than 2 million. kr. A year? Then the Socialists won't mind, so it's not a problem. When you frigging with the citizens' money on unnecessary fun projects in the municipalities, that is no problem. Then you even back it up. That is, and remains, hypocrisy. When New Citizens last year put forward a proposal for a law on prosperity, that is to say a law to ensure that the politicians in here actually created funding that could finance such a demographic trait, one would not be involved. But now, when it comes to spending money loose, it is a completely different matter, and then you want to join in. I admit it's more fun to eat dinner than to do the dishes. We can see out there that citizens are now experiencing rising petrol prices, that it is becoming more expensive for them to get to work and move to work, and then they will have to cut down and adjust the economy in some other ways. But when it comes to in this Parliament, there is only one thing you can do, and that is to consume and consume and consume without thinking about how the money comes in. We will not support that, and we cannot, of course, support it in the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111131443	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111131454	Thank you. We are dealing here with a law that the public sector should become more expensive. Every year the public sector has to become more expensive; that is the law we are dealing with. Because when there are more elderly people and more children who need things from the public sector, the answer here is that the public sector will have to become more expensive. There are, after all, two ways to find money or two ways to increase public service production. One is about to spend more money on it, but the other is about to increase productivity in the public sector, so that for the same money you can produce more, and this law says that you can do that, but that the public sector still has to be more expensive. If there's 10%. more public service providers, public service providers must also be 10%. More expensive. What if they said: Well, we could do the public sector 10%. More effectively, the increased welfare could be financed by it. You could also say: Well, okay, we do the public sector 5%. more expensive, and then we streamline 5 per cent, and together it gives that we have obtained 10 per cent. more welfare that is needed when there is 10 per cent. more people who need welfare. But you don't choose to do that. It is said that when there are more people who need public sector services, there must be 10%. higher costs if it is 10%. More to be serviced. It is strange to have that approach to the public sector. Private sector productivity develops every year. It is true, both in industry and in the services sector, that you can find ways of doing things better from year to year and of course you can. You can find new production methods, new solutions and new ways of organizing work, which will enable you to produce more for the same money. This can be done in the private sector, and that approach should also be adopted for the public sector. The things that the private sector can do should also be able to do. I think it is a declaration of failure for the government to say that the public sector must always be made more expensive. That is not what is in the public interest. The citizens' interest is to obtain a service from the public sector that is satisfactory. So, if the government had an ambitious objective, instead of making a law that says that the public sector must always be more expensive, it would have a law that said that public service should not become inferior or even have to improve. That is what citizens are concerned about; they are concerned that the public service should be good enough. That's what you should make a law about, but it obviously requires you to take on the management of the public sector and say that this is an organisation, that we are the elected leaders to handle this organisation, and that our job is to make sure that it delivers the best with the money we put into it, and the government doesn't want that. It is harder work than just unconsciously increasing public spending, and it is also a job in which the government can come into conflict with its support parties. After all, we know that parties such as Enhedslisten and SF act as mailboxes for the public employees' trade union movement on a daily basis. So, you put a request into the SF and Enhedslisten from the trade union movements of the public employees, and then Enhedslisten and SF make the suggestions in the Parliament Hall. This is the trouble the government would run into if it were to say to SF and Enhedslisten: Well, we have ambitions to make the public sector more productive. Then you run into the trouble that SF and Enhedslisten answer that they will not be involved at all, and that if you do not contribute to making the public sector more expensive and expensive, we will make life miserable for you, and then it is just the case that some people sometimes take some fights because there is something important, and other people sit back and say: No, let the child. And the government is of the nature that it says that we sit back and say: let the child. So we have reached this point where we have a law that the public sector must be more expensive, and that, of course, is a law that we are voting against.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111131939	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur for the Free Greens, and that is Mr President. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111131951	Thank you for the floor, President. Thank you to the Minister and the Government for the proposal. Free Greens welcome the government's proposal for a welfare law. It is a welfare law to ensure that the money follows demographic development year after year for the benefit of our elderly as well as our younger citizens in this country. This is crucial for our democracy and our core welfare. That is why, of course, the Greens support the intention and the proposal. However, we would also like to take this opportunity to raise a discussion about the fact that we in the Free Greens want to set the municipal and state institutions more free, so that they can get back to the social, cultural, political and organisational thinking that at the time gave birth to them, in other words, back to the local community, back to the citizen, that is, more self-determination and more self-organisation. Free Greens therefore have a demand or a desire to continue working on the law also in committee. It is a question of the welfare law allowing more purposeful and self-serving institutions and other forms of democratic organisation to contribute to these welfare tasks, to make our citizens responsible and to give much more self-determination to our citizens. This is a discussion that we want to raise in relation to this welfare law. However, it is also important for the Free Greens to revisit the principles of the distribution of welfare areas in the demographic model. We in the Free Greens are convinced that core welfare can and should be extended in the demographic model, and then we have not mentioned at all core welfare areas such as culture and sports facilities, which is why we, for example, are here. Thinks that a swimming pool and a football field can also be core welfare. In any case, I think that is a discussion we should be discussing here in the Assembly, because we know how much this is, for example. means for the health, well-being and well-being of the Danes. Finally, the Free Greens would like new money to be added to the welfare law. We know that many of our welfare areas are so pressed and unable to provide the desired welfare services just look at the health care right now. So the Free Greens support the proposal, but the Free Greens also want us to look at how we can strengthen self-organisation and self-determination in the municipalities. And we also want more money to be provided together with this legislation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111132255	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And I don't see anyone from KD, so I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111132317	Thank you. And thank you for the debate here. It is very much our welfare society that has created the Denmark that we know. This welfare society wants this government to safeguard for the sake of the citizens and for the sake of the community that has made us so strong. If we look at the numbers, they speak a pretty clear language. By 2025 there will be 14,000 more children under the age of 6 and 69,000 more Danes over the age of 70 than today. It is good that we are becoming more children and older, but it also means that as a government, like Parliament, as Denmark, we must ask: how will we ensure that the more children and the more elderly get the service, the care, the education, the care that will be needed? Some people in the debate have asked: is this just about money? And to that is the answer: No, it's not just about money. It is also about how to look out in public; it is about using new technology; it is about constantly trying to find the best solutions for the benefit of others. our children and the elderly. But having said that, I think you should be very careful not to pretend that in 2025, when 69,000 more Danes are coming over 70 years of age than today and 14,000 more children under 6 years of age than today, it can be done without us putting more money on the table. And what we want with the welfare law is really very simple. We say that when there are more children and when there are more older people and that's nice, and we should be happy with that, then the money should keep up. The money must keep up while we constantly look at how we can do things the best we can. We think that is responsible. Then there are some who say: Well, if you spend the money on the children and the elderly, we can't spend it on anything else, for example. tax relief. And that's right. The money can only be used once. So if you say that the money we see for us that you need to spend on, among other things. Our older people and our children, we would rather use tax relief, yes, then we would be fundamentally different in terms of what is the wisest priority. And that's fair enough. It's called political attitudes; it's called looking at things differently. For this government, it is just far more important that we take good care of welfare, not least for our children and older people, than it is to spend money on further tax cuts. Then there is the question in the debate: should you not make money before you can spend it? And yes, it is a very good principle that you look at how you can get the money you want to spend on good initiatives. But here I also think it is important that we remember that from this Parliament we have made a contract with the Danes. In 2006, 15 years ago, the so-called welfare reconciliation was made, and it was about two fundamental things. One was that the Danes were asked to work longer, and on the other hand it was also part of the agreement that if the Danes did so, we would be able to afford to take good care of the welfare, among other things. When there are more older ones. If you look at the contract that was concluded at the time, the Danes have fulfilled their part of the agreement; the Danes work longer. Now it has become our turn here in Parliament to with what could be called 15 years' delay to deliver on our part of the agreement, namely to say that with this welfare law we will at least make sure that when there are more expenses, because fortunately there are more children and older people, then the money goes with it. We think this is a healthy principle. We have also shown it in relation to the agreements we have made as a government with the National Association of Municipalities and with the Danish Regions. The three agreements made by this government with the municipalities and regions have given a greater boost in the economy to municipalities and regions than has been seen for a very, very long time. This is important, because it comes after a government led by a Left Prime Minister who did not give enough priority to welfare, which made us have a huge backlog in the municipalities and in the regions, which means that although we are now delivering in relation to population development, there is still a great deal that we can do better. The welfare law is therefore about our being able to keep a foundation under welfare. But it is not the case that we do not want to improve it as well. And we have some big challenges. Unless we think that everything is perfect in our health care or in our primary school or in our education, and that there is no need for things to be better done there, then we have a common challenge in creating a better framework for our children, creating a more secure and dignified framework for our elderly. That's what the welfare law is all about. Precisely because we made the welfare settlement in its time, also together with other decisions that have been made, we have a strong economy in Denmark • a strong economy. And when we look forward to 2025, we choose as a government with this welfare law to say that about half of the economic space we have where we can do new things, we would like to reserve to take good care of welfare when there are more children and more elderly people. It is a priority and I understand that there is a desire, particularly among the blue parties, to spend the money on other things. You have to explain yourself. For this government, it is extremely important that we take good care of our children and our elderly. And the money is there because we have taken decisions that have ensured that we get it and also because we have a responsible economic policy that has been conducted by changing governments for many years. And I would like to sign for that because it is not something for which the government or the party to which I belong is solely the honour or the responsibility; it is something for which a great many parties in this Parliament are responsible and credited. Then I just think that we should deliver on the second part of what we agreed, namely to ensure that welfare is in place. Then it has been said that this government is not pursuing a responsible economic policy. Excuse me. We've just been through and are still struggling with the effects of corona in relation to Danish society. And if, a year and a half ago, when the corona hit with full force, not only Denmark, but the whole world and not least Europe, it had told me that we could stand here today with the highest employment ever in the history of Denmark, with the prospect of the highest economic growth for 15 years, with a very, very low unemployment and with a challenge called how to get more hands, and not how to do anything about a massive increase in unemployment, then I think I would have said: that sounds really, really nice; we will do everything possible to make it possible, but it sounds like some very, very ambitious objectives, given the shock we have received. But it has succeeded, first and foremost because every single Dane has taken responsibility because the Danish business community has taken responsibility because Danish employees have taken responsibility, but also because we have politically taken responsibility and set a course and we stood shoulder to shoulder to get Denmark through the economic crisis as well. And that is why today we stand in a place that many, many countries are looking at with both joy on our behalf, but also with many questions about how in the world it has been possible to do that I hear when I talk to my colleagues around the world. So instead of trying to paint up some scare pictures in relation to the Danish economy, I actually think it would be more appropriate that we rejoice that we have come through so strongly; that we say that we have a room for manoeuvre that we can use on various things we can use it on welfare, and we can also use it on tax cuts. By the way, we also have a number of reforms that we need to make together. And that's also why the government has presented Denmark with more information, where we want to reform the Danish society so that we can invest in education, in the green transition, in our companies' ability to do even better, and also so that more hands become available for our society. Now, it seems to me a responsible way of conducting politics: that we both take care of welfare, strengthen the green transition, give a hand to our companies, and then stand together in the hope that not least when it comes to our children and the elderly, we have a very special task in that not only now but also in the future, we take care of the welfare of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111133551	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is for Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111133555	It is fine with the record growth we have had again. But you also have to say what it comes from, and there are many other countries that have had record growth, and if we look out in 2025, we are down about 1.6 per cent. It is a matter of increasing growth if we look at the Economic Council and what they expect it to be. So should we not limit enthusiasm by doing so? I'd like to ask you a question. From 2015 to 2019, 2.5 billion were paid. kr. more to the municipalities, 430 million. kr. of them went to increased central administration and management. How will the government make sure that, once again, the municipalities are given more money, that it does not just go to increased central administration and management, just as it did from 2015 to 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111133641	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111133641-2	First of all, I do not just think it should be said that the fact that we can see the greatest growth in the Danish economy in 15 years is not really considered to be anything. I think it is extremely positive for Denmark. Well, that's right, then, as sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen says that this increase comes after we have been down because of corona, but it does not change that we have a Denmark that is economically very strong, also after corona. In relation to the municipalities, there is a very great responsibility in the individual municipality for spending the money most sensibly, and that is one of the things we talk about with municipalities and, for that matter, regions when we make agreements with them. Among other things: We have gone in and said that the use of external consultants must be brought down so that the money can be spent on direct welfare instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111133749	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111133750	Yes, but it is still not a guarantee that they will not be spent on central administration and management. It may well be that you do not use them on external consultants, but if you only increase it in relation to where you employ many people for central administration and management, then it doesn't matter. So where's the guarantee that this money won't just be spent out there? Because as it says here, there are no consequences if the municipalities choose to spend it on increasing it in relation to theaters, if they choose to spend it on hiring an increased number of marketers; if they choose to spend more money on building a new town hall or whatever they want, then there is no impact on it. Then it is not basic welfare that is being addressed, that is to say with Mrs Jensen, who lives in the nursing home. There are no demands on how the municipalities should spend the money in this law. It's just that they need to be allowed to use more.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111133836	Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111133837	What we are up to is to ensure that when more children and more elderly people arrive in the coming years, and that is what we are going to do, we are going to set aside money for the municipalities to continue to provide a good care, a good education and a good care. Then it is also the case that we have municipal autonomy and 98 municipalities each have different priorities. And I can have many opinions on how to give priority to municipality x, and Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has it in relation to municipality y, but what we are giving the opportunity to do with this is that if you make sensible decisions in the municipalities, you can also take into account the fact that fortunately there are more children and older people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111133929	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111133931	Thank you and thank you for the bill, and we have praised it in the SF, and I would like to do so again. Then, frankly, I cannot understand why it has to be a problem all of a sudden that you have a legislative proposal consisting of five paragraphs. I think the opposite is sometimes a little exaggerated in this Chamber. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance if he could see that the method was applied to the economic wise men, precisely so that we do not have to discuss under one color or another the finance minister, how the method in the Ministry of Finance is worked out, i.e. whether it could have a sounding board with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134022	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134023	I have to say that it is not a question of what colour the Minister for Finance is politically determined by what models of calculations are used in the Ministry of Finance. What I have set in motion is to ask the Economic Council, in general terms, to go through the accounting models of the Ministry of Finance and then make recommendations where they might think that there is something that can be done better and different. I think it is really, really important that we have a Ministry of Finance where, whether there is a blue finance minister or a red finance minister, the same rules of calculation are applied. And you constantly adjust the accounting rules in the Ministry of Finance when new and better knowledge comes, and it should be factual and neither colored with a red colour nor a blue color. So it can be said that the Economic Council can have a direct influence on the accounting models of the Ministry of Finance. But when it comes to calculating the demographic features, it is a task for the Ministry of Finance and it is naturally there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134143	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134144	Yes, one can only decide that the method itself will be determined by DOR, and that it is then the Ministry of Finance that makes the calculation. But I hear the Minister for Finance says that you are not interested in that. Then I would like to know whether, on the other hand, the Minister of Finance could be interested in us holding a hearing as part of the committee procedure on what is called healthy ageing, which many people have an opinion on, and which we in the SF also think is quite crucial to where the cut is made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134218	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134218-2	As I have said, I have taken the initiative, in relation to the calculation rules, to have the Economic Council make their bid, not only in relation to the demographic features, but in relation to how we generally apply our calculation rules, and there they can make recommendations on an ongoing basis, and the starting point will be follow or explain. In other words, the recommendations made by the Economic Council will, from the outset, be taken up by the Ministry of Finance. In relation to what is wanted in committee proceedings in the Danish Parliament by conferences, meetings or other matters, I leave it to the Danish Parliament to decide for itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134303	Then it's mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134306	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. When you listen to the Minister for Finance that way, you cannot disagree with what he says when there are more elderly people coming and more children coming. Are we going to help finance it? I think we certainly should. But when you read the bill, you can see that it is a lot about consumption growth. I would just like to ask the Minister for Finance something about that. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, the title is actually good enough. That's how much more in content where the challenge is. If you look at where the elderly are and where the children are, you have to say that they are out in the municipalities. If you look at where the sick are and where there are some health challenges, you have to say that it is in the regions. So, when we talk about this, if it's going to land in a sensible place, can't you see if you can't define it a little more • when we all mention these soft welfare areas • in terms of how to channel the money towards where the elderly are and where, for example, the children are?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134400	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134401	I have already said in connection with this welfare law that some of what we are very, very concerned about is that when more children arrive and more older people arrive, the municipalities and, for that matter, the regions are able to accommodate the fact that there is also an economic aspect to the fact that there are more children and older people. Can we do even better than what the government has proposed with the welfare law? Well, there we have an open mind, and if there are good ideas from the Danish People's Party or others, we would very much like to discuss it. I also hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in his speech being in agreement with the intention, but not satisfied with the proposal as it stands, and then we have to try to talk about things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134505	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134506	Yeah, 'cause that's what's interesting. I don't know if it's on the edge of it, but it was actually the case that in the Finance Act for 2017 or 2018, I think it was from the Danish People's Party that we started a work at the Elders' Ministry to see how quality can also be measured. Today, we measure quality by looking at how much money you spend. In fact, if a municipality is on index 98, you say that they have a low level of service, but it may in fact be that they are really, really good and that they can actually provide a super good service and experienced service to citizens 2%. cheaper. Is the Minister of Finance willing to look at how we actually measure services in the municipalities and, for that matter, in the regions as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134546	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134547	I certainly think it is worth discussing how we not only look at how many crowns and ears come out, but also look at how that money is spent and look at what the experience is with the citizens of the service they get. As I also said in my speech here a moment ago, this is not just about crowns and ears. It's also about crowns and ears. And when there are 69 000 more elderly people over 70 years of age, I do not think you can just organize yourself out of it, but that does not mean that there are not many other things that you can do besides adding money that is wise to do and that, overall, will provide better service and well-being for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134638	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134640	Thank you. I just need to understand the interpretation that the Minister of Finance is now putting into the 2006 agreement that then there was a guarantee that the demographic move would be covered. Why, in her capacity as Minister under the government of Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, did the Minister of Finance earlier break that interpretation of the welfare agreement? I am aware of this last time we in Denmark have had negative public consumption growth with a financial law; it was under the government of Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt. So perhaps the finance minister just overinterprets the welfare agreement a little. That was one question. The second question is: if the bill is adopted as it stands, will it prevent 90 mandates in the Folketing from adopting a financial law with a public consumption growth lower than the demographic move?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134736	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134737	First of all, when I talk about the 2006 welfare agreement, it is because there was a contract with the Danes, which was basically called that if you, dear Danes, work longer, we will also have the opportunity to take good care of welfare, not least when we can see that there will be more elderly people in the years to come. And what I am saying with the proposal here today is that we would like to take an important step in ensuring that this is actually the case with the welfare law. In relation to Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen was quite a significant addition to history, namely that it was when the financial crisis came with thundering power and changed the conditions for the Danish economy with a clubbeat. And I think it would be awkward that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen had brought it. And what lies in this law, too, is that if there are completely unforeseen events, there is an exception, and that is precisely in order to be able to take account of challenges of this kind.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134901	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134903	I was not given an answer to the question that if the bill is adopted as it stands, it prevents 90 seats in the Folketing from adopting a financial law that does not comply with it. That was the one question now. The second question is: can the Minister of Finance say how the government feels about the amendment that I have announced on behalf of the Left that this should be accompanied by a tax freeze and an obligation to take initiatives whose growth is lower than that of the demographic, so as to ensure that there is lasting prosperity and sustainable financing of our welfare societies?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134934	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111134935	After all, this bill obliges the Minister of Finance to ensure that a draft budget is put forward that meets the demographic trend. Does this mean that a majority outside the government cannot adopt anything else? No, it doesn't. However, it would be a rather unusual situation for a financial law to be passed outside the current government. That is not a frequent occurrence, I would say. So in relation to the Left's smokescreen, that is, that one does not stand by one's election vow, because suddenly and after promising the Danes that one would make sure that when more children and older people arrived, one would also deliver on it, one will find that now that one is in opposition, writing a lot of things with small things that weren't even said anything about when one went to the polls, I would say: No, it's not something I think is a wise addition to what we have brought here. So the Left must explain itself out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111135040	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111135042	The welfare law is, after all, a very minimal guarantee of welfare. We keep our noses on as more young and older people arrive. However, we can see from the neutral projections, from the Ministry of Finance, that if we simply use them as a base under welfare, they would mean, if they were taken as a starting point, that the bottom under welfare would be lifted a great deal in relation to what the government is presenting in the draft welfare law. This neutral projection by the Ministry of Finance would also ensure that our welfare in hospitals, in day care institutions and in care for the elderly follows and takes place in line with the development of prosperity in society. So to my question is really about the fact that after a few years the government and the Social Democrats have found out that the demographic move must be delivered at least, but that perhaps it was time that we took this shit further and made a bottom under welfare, which is not just the demographic trait, but which is the prosperity-proof demographic trait, which is also reflected in the neutral projections made by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111135151	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111135152	Well, first of all, it's not something we've figured out after a few years. This is something that has been our focus from day one when this government joined, and we have also delivered it in the municipal and regional agreements that have been concluded, where we have covered the demographic features of those agreements only in relation to them, and then, in cooperation with, among others, we have. Enhedslisten, SF og Radical Left made finance agreements, which have put on top of • posted upstairs among others. in relation to 1,000 more nurses, in relation to strengthening our primary school, in relation to minimum standards in the field of day care, in relation to our psychiatry, to take just some of the important welfare areas that we have jointly raised. In terms of how you calculate this, it's done in a very common way, that is, the way the Ministry of Finance calculates the demographic trait. I know, sir. Rune Lund would like to see it done in a different way, but there we have a disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111135307	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111135308	I would like to see, for example: the bottom we make the welfare was equal to the neutral projection made by the Ministry of Finance, and not to the demographic trait that is below it. And my comment on the demographic move is that I remember back in time, among other things. from 2015 onwards, where we disagreed with the Social Democratic Party that there should be delivered at least the demographic move. That is not where we are today, nor is it in the understanding paper, in which it must be delivered. We have made two financial laws, one for 2020 and one for 2021, which are the best in 10 years, things are going in the right direction in the welfare area, but we have delivered on it and on the demographic features of both finance laws. So why can't we put it as the base of welfare? That is really the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111135350	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111135351	After all, in the Ministry of Finance every August we count on what the demographic move will be, what we expect it will be the following year. And what we are up to is that we will cover that with the welfare law. It will then be the task of the Finance Minister in office at all times to table a draft budget and, moreover, to adopt a draft budget which complies with it. But I also think it is important to say that this is the bottom line, it is the foundation, and then it is possible to build on it in financial law agreements, and that is what we have done finely and well together, and can we not succeed in the negotiations that will soon culminate in a financial law agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111135438	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments, and we thank the Minister for Finance. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111135455	Then I shall interrupt this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today in 10 minutes, and it is Thursday 11 November 2021 at 10:00. 14.05.where the second treatment of L 61 will take place. The rest of the items on this agenda, that is to say the first reading of B 4 and B 10, will be postponed until after the third reading of L 61, which we will then be dealing with in 10 minutes.
