ParlaMint-DK_20210423100042	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 218 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) and sickness benefit law. Bill No. L 219 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Social Policy. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Kofod Group). B 297 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Danish military contributions to Operation Barkhane in the Sahel region). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Marcus Knuth (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF) have informed me that they wish to withdraw the following motion for a resolution: Proposal for a parliamentary decision not to accept applicants with a conditional or unconditional prison sentence on the next proposal for a law on citizenship notification. 245). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423100153	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 27 April 2021. It is first the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbak, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423100232	Thank you for that, President. I just want to inform you, for the record, that my name is Mølbæk. Second Vice-President I should like to remind you of that. It's so good. In Denmark we are proud of our welfare system, a welfare system that intends to be a safety net under all of us, in case we are affected in life, because we can all be affected by illness or an accident and have a disability that we must learn to live with. That is exactly what this question debate is about, namely about the people who have to live with their disabilities. It is about being able to live a valuable and active life with content, not just a life behind the four walls of the home and not just to survive. If that is possible, you must be able to take an education and it must be possible to have a job based on the resources and skills you have in spite of the disability. It is about the whole human being, but unfortunately we have a system that often works in silos, where it can end up with the refusal of a waterproof leg prosthesis in the social department, which means that one cannot complete one's education and later work in a kitchen as a cook. Why do we still have a system where citizens are caught in endless discussions about whether it is the municipality or the region that has to pay the aid? This happens, while a veteran is sent back in the wheelchair, because no one in the municipality or region takes responsibility for paying for the repair of the leg prosthesis he originally received in connection with his rehabilitation in the region. When we hear of those examples, I think we can agree that it is unsustainable that the system in the real world does not live up to the intentions of the legislation, because it is incredibly short-term that decisions are taken in the social field that prevent people from getting an education or getting a job. Everyone knows, of course, that early retirement is much more expensive than the one-off cost of an aid that could guarantee a more independent life for a citizen. It should not be conditional on one being lucky in the municipality lottery in relation to the help one can get in one's trading municipality. There are far too many differences in the 98 municipalities as to what aids can be obtained and how quickly they can be obtained. Although SF is a major supporter of municipal autonomy, it simply cannot continue. This undermines our cohesion and a number of objectives of the Service Act on Prevention and to meet the needs of reduced physical capacity and to promote the individual's ability to self-sustain. In other words, we must stop short-term practices in which people with disabilities are prevented from being able to live an active life, take an education and take a job. With aids provided in time, there are many positive effects, and this also applies to our economy when we get more trained and in jobs, but this also applies to the prevention of a number of health problems of a somatic and psychological nature. That is why I have called in both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Employment. I hope that with this debate we can create a common basis for understanding the problems faced by people with disabilities and, above all, the solutions we should take together, also across sectors.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423100536	Thank you. Now it's the Social and Senior Affairs Minister's turn. One brief remark from the rapporteurs is then available. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423100600	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the question debate for highlighting an important agenda. The question debate we are discussing here deals with an important subject for a group of vulnerable people who, because of their physical disability, have different living conditions from those without disability. People with a physical disability may experience that everyday life is filled with challenges that limit them. Therefore, it is crucial that the community joins and offers the right help. Because the system must be a co-player in the life of the citizen and not a opponent, and as I have said before, and it tolerates repetition, it should not be a struggle to get help, even for people with physical disabilities. Yet it turns out that only 40%. of the 19-20-year-olds with disabilities are in either education or jobs. That is not good enough, and we as a society must do better. No one can do anything, but everyone can contribute something, and everyone wins, both the individual and society, when everyone has the opportunity to join the community. Something is about ensuring that there is accessibility to the right aids • that is what we are discussing here today in the query debate • and something is about physical availability. There we have recently made clear the right to a reasonable individual adaptation that children and young people have in day care and schools. We have ensured that children and young people can complain and receive compensation if reasonable adjustments are not made in schools and day-to-day services. This means that children and young people with disabilities can have the same opportunities in their schooling and on in life as other children and young people. It is about ensuring more flexible conditions for people with disabilities, for example. to take an education. As indicated by the Social Democracy Disability Issues, there must be more time for pupils with disabilities to complete a youth education, for example. with inspiration from Team Denmark classes. There was also focus on e.g.: this issue in the ongoing negotiations on a disability policy agreement, where the government wants to strengthen efforts for pupils and students who need a little more help to get started with an education and further into working life. In the question debate here we are asked, more specifically, first, whether there is sufficient help today in the form of aids to live an active life and leisure life, secondly, whether people with physical disabilities can receive the necessary assistance in the form of aids to obtain adequate training opportunities and links with the labour market and, finally, what that government will do in relation to this. Basically, the question debate is about ensuring that people with physical disabilities are compensated so that they can live a life on an equal footing with everyone else in the best possible way, and I would like to make it clear from a start that people with physical disabilities must of course be compensated so that they can participate in society and become part of the community on an equal footing with everyone else. This is precisely what one of the fundamental principles of Danish disability policy is all about: the principle of compensation, and it is also a principle that applies to the AT sector. For the whole purpose of AT is precisely to compensate for the lasting consequences of a disability. Aids should help people with physical disabilities to have the opportunity to live as normal and independent as possible and to make the individual as independent as possible from the assistance of others in their daily lives. There may be, for example: This is because a citizen has such an extensive disability in his or her musculoskeletal system, e.g. a reduced walking function, that the citizen cannot move freely around to the activities in which the citizen wishes to participate. In such a case, e.g. a wheelchair or other means of helping to ensure an active and independent life and leisure life for the citizen. That is why it is, of course, absolutely crucial that there is already the possibility of compensation for citizens with physical disabilities. In the social field, the Service Act states that aid may be granted for AT if the aid can significantly alleviate the lasting consequences of a disability or significantly facilitate daily living in the home. The aid must compensate for the long-term consequences of an individual's disability in order to be able to cope as far as possible in his day-to-day life. The decision whether or not an aid is needed shall be taken on the basis of an overall assessment of the situation of the citizen. In this way, the Service Act already supports that people with physical disabilities can live an active life and leisure life. However, having said all that, I would also like to acknowledge that new challenges can arise in the field of aid for citizens in practice. That is why I will be discussing the problems of granting aid under the Services Act under the new partnership for legal certainty and trust in the field of disability. In the partnership, KL, i.e. the National Association of Municipalities, the Danish Social Advisor Association and Danske Handicaporganisations participate. That is why I also believe that the partnership is the right place to discuss challenges in the area of disability, including in the area of AT. In short, people with disabilities are already guaranteed in the Services Act the possibility of getting help in the form of aids to support their being able to live an active life and leisure life within the framework laid down by the legislation and, together with the discussion of the problems of the granting of aids under the Services Act in the new partnership, I am confident that I will be able to respond to the challenges that can arise in practice. For it should not be a struggle to get help, and people with physical disabilities must, of course, have the help that, from a concrete and individual assessment, responds to their overall need for help so that they can live an active life and leisure life. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101119	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101123	Thank you. Those are nice words, but very little action. I have more questions. One is that the Minister should reply to whether the Minister thinks that a walker is an aid. That was one thing. The second point I would like to hear from the Minister is that it is the case today that we can both reduce bureaucracy and give a quicker procedure if we made it compulsory for municipalities to apply a declaration of faith and law. This means that when, as a person with a disability, one has not improved one's ability to function and has to re-orientate one's means of helping one's wheelchair, it may also be a disabled car, will the Minister make it compulsory for the municipalities to use the simplified procedure? It will of course benefit those who have a disability and, above all, it will reduce the bureaucracy that is also in relation to this area. In the Danish People's Party we have made proposals on this in the past, and we actually think it is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101226	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101227	Well, it is quite fundamental, and it is when we look at the Service Act, but also when we zoom in and look at the AT area, that a proper information needs to be provided on the matter, and it must be based on an individual assessment of the needs of the individual citizen. This is, of course, a fundamental principle of this, and I believe that we must continue to stand on that principle. When problems can then arise in practice in the field of AT, it is because there is a rapid development in AT, and something considered as an aid years ago can slip in and become an ordinary consumer product. The example of electric toothbrushes is one. When it first came onto the market, it was an aid, and now you can buy an electric toothbrush for, I think the cheapest I've found was 30 kroner. battery powered. And in this way, there will be a development that will enable you to meet these challenges. Now the rapporteur specifically asked for a roller, and they are also available in various forms. Depending on how one's disability is, how one's walking function is reduced, it can be different products one needs and therefore they can also have a different character.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101339	Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101350	Thank you. When Daniel was a child, he lost his leg. A prosthetic has been invented to compensate for movements. It's $200,000. more than the regular prosthesis, but Daniel just gets turned down this prosthetic over and over and over again. This probably means that in the long run he cannot continue to do his 37-hour job as production manager because he simply wears his hip up and probably becomes a very expensive client over with the Minister of Employment when he is going to have a flex job. This probably also means that he wears his hip up and at some point becomes a really expensive patient over with the Minister of Health. What does the Minister think of us pushing costs from one area to another in this way? And does the Minister even think that it makes sense, not least human, but also socio-economic, that we will not solve once and for all the problem that the silo-divided resorts mean that people can literally fall between two chairs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101456	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101457	After all, I do not know his specific case and where the disagreement arises in relation to the assessment of which leg prosthesis is the right one for him, and hence not the assessment of whether it is something that is necessary for him to be able to perform the function he has. There may be some demands that relate to the employment • Again I am not an expert; fortunately we have specialist experts who make that a prosthesis that you can in a dry home environment will be very bad in a humid working environment, as I know, and therefore this must be a concrete and individual assessment in individual cases. In addition to this being a concrete and individual assessment, we have an absolutely fundamental principle in our disability policy, as the questioner knows, which is the principle of sectoral responsibility, which I believe is essential to maintain. I am in favour of sometimes being presented to citizens who experience that, instead of being a sector-responsible principle, where the sector that is responsible takes hold of the citizen, they end up playing ball. This is, of course, one of the things I would like to discuss with the partnership on legal certainty and trust in the social field, in other words how we can, on our side of the matter, ensure that this is not the experience. This should mean that we were caught in the right sector and not just being sent around in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101612	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101616	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to the Minister. I hear that the Minister will discuss this in the partnership for legal certainty, and that is fine, but is the Minister also going to involve the parties of the Folketing? Because it can be said that there are some things about the AT area that are bound by quite a lot of legislation in different areas and that sectoral partnerships cannot solve in themselves, but where a majority in the Folketing is required. Secondly, I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that the municipal lottery actually exists today, when the same citizen can get help in one municipality but has the help taken away in the other municipality. I have a very concrete example with a woman who moved from Favrskov Municipality to Randers Municipality and who had a tricycle that she was happy to move around on, and she was really, really well-functioning in that. In the municipality of Randers, it is said that she cannot have this bike because it is below their service level, and thus the woman must take a bus, because it was considered right. There I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister thinks that we have a functioning system, or whether we should try to put ourselves together and take steps to ensure that there is not so much coincidence and differences between the municipalities, including in the waiting times that are in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101734	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101735	To the first, i.e. whether it is also a discussion that I could see was relevant to have with the parties of the Folketing, I would say that I think that very much. After all, we are all in the process of mapping and evaluating the specialized social area, and some of the discussions will be about ensuring that there is the right professionalism, among other things. to also make assessments about aids. At least I sometimes hear that as far as our principle of sectoral responsibility is concerned: one can simply be in doubt whether the right issues have been identified in the discussion here. The second point raised by the questioner is, of course, a very fundamental discussion about municipal autonomy and the right of each municipality to have certain quality standards and a certain level of service, of course within the regulatory framework, and that is of course important. So, you can't set a service level that doesn't live up to the law, and that is why, despite that, for the individual case and here for the specific woman, I don't remember where she moved from, but she moved Randers, where the questioner lives, is made a concrete and individual assessment of her needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101845	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101850	After all, the aid sector has changed a great deal in recent years, and what I hear from many of the disabled organisations at least is that it is believed that the despecialisation which has taken place generally in the specialized social field also applies in the field of aid, that is to say that there is simply a lack of sufficient professional expertise and that there is a lack of professional knowledge in the municipalities. Does the Minister agree that such despecialisation has taken place and that it is important that we find initiatives in the negotiations on the whole area of disability that can restore a high degree of specialisation in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101935	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423101936	Well, I hear exactly the same concerns and assessments as Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj from the organisations in the field of disability, and that this is one of the places where you experience a despecialisation after the previous municipal reform, which has a long time on the back. It is also one of the places that has been the focus of attention when you have looked at the municipal reform, but I do not think we are in the goal either, so it is obvious to have a discussion about it. And if I may just make a further comment on this, in fact also following on from my reply to Karina Adsbøl, the aid area is indeed one of the areas in which one can trust that technological development and the fact that we can do more and more will mean that more and more people can live less and less limited by their disability and disability, and that also requires that there is sufficient specialised knowledge to be able to keep up with it. So it is certainly a discussion, and it is not a discussion that will become less important if one dares to be such a technology optimist who believes that we are getting better and more adapted tools for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102039	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102044	Thank you for the floor. We in the Left, like the Minister, pay tribute to local self-government, but the quality and service must still be in order. Now I was reading something in connection with a section 20 question where the minister is just asked about this difference, which all other rapporteurs have also mentioned, that is to say the big difference that is unfortunately out in the individual municipalities. And the Minister answers that one would really like to look at strengthening legal certainty and looking at the possibilities of reducing and standardising processing times, i.e. standardising them in the whole area of disability. I would like to know if the Minister would then explain what conclusions the government has reached in connection with this work. How are we going to standardize procedures when we still want to pay tribute to municipal self-government out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102133	Thank you. Now I do not know what exactly the answer is to which the honourable Member refers, but I have at least recently given a reply on the processing times of disabled cars. However, if we are concerned about the helicopter, the rapporteur says that the quality of each municipality must be in order, and I very much agree with that. That is why, in our first two economic agreements, the government has now also raised the economy of the municipalities by over 3 billion. DKK, among other things. in order to ensure that there is an economic space for the specialized social area, which has, of course, been some of the things that have pushed the economy of the municipalities. It's very basic for us. If it is also something that has become very fundamental for the Left, then I look forward to the support of the Left for the forthcoming welfare law so that we can ensure that we have a bottom under our welfare all the time out there. Then there is the discussion about whether you can have different levels of service in the different municipalities, in relation to which aids citizens can obtain. It's a discussion. Then there is the discussion about processing times, when you decide for yourself what success criteria you have in the individual municipality. I think it is appropriate to have a discussion with the players on this, i.e. whether it makes sense to talk about too much variation. Basically, I believe that the differences should not be too great. Denmark is too small a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102249	Thank you. Then there are no more questions about the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly. Now it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102318	Thank you for that, President. Thank you too for this discussion. Of course, when I am in this debate, it is because the Health Act imposes on our regions the responsibility for providing patients with the tools necessary for hospital care, and it is also the case that, under the Health Act, the municipalities are responsible for providing the necessary remedies or aids as part of home nursing and as part of rehabilitation. I think we have to say that this debate is very, very much needed, because we simply have several examples of great differences between municipalities, of how we assess it here, and we have citizens who get into trouble because something arises which, at least when you see it from the outside, may look like cash-in-the-box thinking or, at least, that you put away responsibility. And then, in fact, the citizen is in need of a remedy or a remedy or other, and the definitions in the law simply do not take sufficient account of those issues. And it can't be that you as a citizen are at a cost. After all, it is citizens who need help, in concrete terms aids, so it is citizens who need help and who have a right to it in the law. It cannot be the case that, as a citizen, people are to be sent around from region to municipality and rejected in one place or another, and then you can see that in the neighbouring municipality it is the opposite or that it is the opposite in the neighbouring region. That's how you get stuck. So here in the Health Act, it is citizens, such as, for example, citizens. is affected by illness, has been affected by something where you have been treated, and you have to try rehabilitation for a period of time. So that means that it is citizens who may be in the most difficult situation of their lives and need help to set up their lives and be retrained and make life work. And it is simply not acceptable for them to get into a mess. There is, I believe, a need to clarify these rules on demarcation. The rule is made like that. I think it has to be said that on paper it actually looks quite fine, and it is also very good that the basic rule is that the authority closest to the citizen must then give the aid, the tool, and then you have to find out how it is then financed. The box thinking is then done in the back. That sounds fine on paper, but I think that today we have to see that it is a solution that is beautiful and fine on paper, but that means that we need to consider this together, of course also in the Folketing and in the ministries. I am thinking here of patient associations and of the regions and municipalities of course. We need to make sure this is handled in a better way. So thank you for bringing this up. I look forward to further work, and I would like to say that we would very much like to enter into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102649	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102655	Thank you for that and also thank you for the opening speech. I therefore agree that demarcation is a theme on which we must work, not only between municipalities and regions, but also between regions within the Folketing and also within the government. Daniel, whom I mentioned before, is a real patient who is a family man and who is doing his 37-hour full-time job. But since he has the wrong prosthesis, he also does so with great pain and thus also with great risk of severe wear and injuries in his hip, and he eventually becomes an expensive patient in the health care system and we know it. So I would just like to repeat the question that I also put to the Minister for Social Affairs: do we not have a responsibility to intervene in time and prevent? Here we can do a regular prevention in time and precisely prevent loss of professional capacity and loss of health simply by assigning the right prosthesis from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102804	Yes, and thank you for bringing up the concrete example. For it is precisely an example that is representative of everything, too many people's situation. That is why we have a clear responsibility to resolve these issues far better than is happening today. I am glad that Mrs Kirsten Andersen also mentions that it is very, very short-term economic that you think you can sort of get away with something that is not quite good, because the bill for society will be much bigger afterwards. But I also know that Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen is concerned about the human aspect. For a citizen who has been through an operation or other, where you have to have a prosthesis, it means a lot to get what actually works and go out and make a difference in the labour market and for his associates and family and still work and make his contribution. It gives a huge pride and a huge satisfaction, so on the human level it is of course important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102904	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423102908	Thank you. I look forward to the Minister calling for negotiations in this area. In the Danish People's Party we have been fighting for many years to improve it, including the demarcation circular in relation to treatment tools and aids. I also have an example, Majbrit, which should have a new tilting bearing. Everyone agreed that she should be reassigned to a new tilting pitch. The challenge was that the region said it had to pay the municipality and that the municipality said it had to pay the region because it was a treatment tool. While that discussion was going on, Majbrit risked losing his standing function, and it is not reasonable for the citizens to end up in that situation. So I would like to know exactly what the Minister intends to do. For that is something that the Danish People's Party has been concerned about for many years, and indeed under the previous government has also asked the Minister about. It was at the time that we fought against Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby in relation to the delineation circular. So how is the Minister going to solve this challenge precisely in relation to the demarcation circular, treatment tools and aids, so that citizens do not get stuck, but so that they get the help and the treatment they need, whether it is a treatment tool or an aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103022	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103025	I mean, I wasn't in the conciliation circles before the elections, so I can't say exactly why the effort there didn't bear so much fruit. However, the purpose for us is that it should bear fruit this time, and I am only glad to see that the parties have met with rapporteurs, all of whom have already indicated in their question that this is important and that it is high on the agenda. That is also true of the government. As far as the specific question is concerned, of course I cannot stand here and deal with it. Of course we all know that, but it is quite, quite in principle, that if there is any doubt about who should pay, and it sounds as if that was the case here, it is in the first place the authority closest to the citizen who has to pay the bill, and then the authorities must find out who is responsible for the payment internally. So, as I am now presenting it here with the reservations that must of course be, I would say that this should not happen. But the fact that this happens, despite the fact that it should not happen, shows that there is work ahead of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103133	Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103138	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I will continue along the same lines, because while we are standing here talking about the need to do better in municipalities and regions, it is, however, the citizen who gets caught up in this. Back 2016, the then Minister for Health presented a report stressing that the existing delimiting circular in this area should be replaced by a new guide to help improve the handling of this problem. Is this work that the current government and the Minister for Health intend to follow up on? And are we going to work cross-sectorally, in relation to the fact that we also have easier access to a practice that makes more sense, both for the citizen, but actually also in relation to some of the dynamic effects that we have also talked about in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103234	Oh, I just wanted to say yes. That is what you want when you ask such a question in that way. But it's probably gonna take me to know about it. I am not aware of the promise made by the previous government as far back as the beginning of their term of office. What has happened to it since then I have to read up on whether the promised instructions have been delivered or not. I must be absolutely sure that I say the right and correct thing from here on the platform. This has to be seen in cross-sectoral terms, and if one sector, like the one, tries, in popular terms, to take care of the money or to keep the money, or to say that it is not our responsibility, but some others' responsibility, then we risk that the situation of the citizen will deteriorate, and that is what is at stake. So I think it is very good to invite me to this debate and the three ministers, because these are the three ministries that have to deliver. Then the Danish Parliament can deliver its share, and then the others involved can deliver their info.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103340	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103344	Thank you. In the field of health, the Left helped to provide a 30-day investigation guarantee. What does the Minister think about handing it over to the social area? In other words, does the Minister believe that there is some form of guarantee or a time limit for processing disability?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103400	I just need to think about it a little more carefully. I think I heard that it was asked to hand over the investigation guarantee. I think it is very good and wise in the health law, and I do not think that should be handed over to other legislation. If you think about whether you can transfer a principle from one law to another law, for example. A law of the Minister for Social Affairs, then I think that this debate is most appropriate in relation to the minister in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103438	Thank you. There are no further comments to the Minister, so we go further. And that is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103501	Thank you for the floor, and also thank you to the authors for calling it here, I think, really, very important debate. As you know, today's question debate is also about how people with disabilities are ensured links with the labour market and whether the current rules in the field of employment provide sufficient support for this. I would like to start by emphasising that people with disabilities have a lot to contribute at a workplace whose framework of the right ones. It is therefore also crucial that rules and practices support the labour market's ability to meet the challenges of a disability. Fortunately, there are already good opportunities for help in the workplace. This applies, among other things, to: in the form of personal assistance or a means of compensating for one's disability so that one is able to do a job in this way. It is the job centre that grants aids to the workplace. All job centres have key people in the field of disability who have a particular knowledge and knowledge of the opportunities available. It makes good sense for the job centre to carry out the task, because the case workers in the job centres have both knowledge of the citizen and the company, and this is a key prerequisite for providing the citizen with the best possible help. However, it is of course essential that the waiting time for an aid is not too long. That is why the rules in this area have been tightened. Since 1 January 2020, an aid has been required to be granted within 4 weeks of its application. It has also become possible to keep your aid throughout working life if you want to work beyond retirement age. The new rules stem from the 2019 Rate Pool Agreement, which concluded a four-year disability policy agreement totalling 128 million. kr. The agreement contains 11 different initiatives, all of which must strengthen efforts to get people with disabilities into work. Work on implementing the 11 initiatives is under way. Work is being carried out, among other things. to promote awareness of compensation opportunities through campaigns and seminars targeted at key people in the job centre. Knowledge of all the existing schemes is central to supporting their actual use. And it's not just the job centres that need to know about them. So must individual citizens and companies. We are therefore also testing a competence card in three municipalities, so that a company can already know, before the conversation with the citizen, what competences the citizen has and what opportunities there are for compensating for the disability. In addition, the government is working on the implementation of the Compensation Act in the field of employment. The Act dates back to 1998 and needs to be made more up-to-date. Among other things, it has to be done. ensure more appropriate use of the compensatory schemes and facilitate the administration of the country's job centres so that more people with disabilities receive the necessary help to get into employment. A lot stands and falls by the fact that the job centres focus on the area. There is one of my employment policy objectives for the efforts of the municipalities in 2021 that more people with disabilities are going into employment. The employment policy objectives which are announced each year to the municipalities oblige the municipalities to focus separately on selected areas. I have just announced to the municipalities that the goal that more people with disabilities should be in employment should also apply in 2022. This testifies to the high priority given to disability by the government, including in the field of employment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103836	There are brief comments, and that is first from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103843	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I also recognise that skilled employees in social services and in job centres are working hard to find very good solutions so that more people can live a life on their own terms. I think that is important. But sometimes we cannot see the forest for just trees, and sometimes it is the most obvious and obvious solutions for the citizen that we are going to miss in the fight to find all sorts of other solutions. There is Daniel, whom I am concerned about, who with the right prosthetic can easily continue to do his job as production manager on perfectly normal terms without any help from the Minister's staff. Should we not be able to solve the problem that citizens risk falling between two chairs and not getting the right help in time just because the task lies in a different resort than where it might have been properly solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103946	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423103947	Now Mrs Kirsten Andersen has asked the same question to the other two ministers, which is why I have had the opportunity to prepare myself for it, but despite the preparation I do not think I can go much further on this particular matter. I think Mrs Kirsten Andersen knows that too when she asks the question. But basically, I think that Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen has a fundamental point in her speech, and this applies to all the leaders and edges of our welfare society • that early investment much, very often has a greater probability of actually earning yourself home, contributing to an increase in the quality of life for the individual citizen and, moreover, also socio-economicly wiser. In this, of course, there is no question that I can take a position on the specific issue and what kind of practical aid it is that can help, etc., but in general I would say that in the government we are very concerned about how we can think even more about early investment in people. It is also for the same reason that we have set up the Reform Commission, as it is now called, with Nina Smith in the lead, to look at these second generation reforms, where early investment in human beings is an element.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104103	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104109	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech, which also points out that it is also very much about employment and the employment gap that is really for people with disabilities. There, at least, we have an untapped employment potential. Unfortunately, it is only 58 per cent. of people with disabilities who are in employment. I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that it is satisfactory and whether the Minister believes that the initiatives we are taking are sufficient to make much more progress. I shall not dwell on the dynamic effects. There's been some talk about that. I would also like to ask the Minister whether it is true that the government still does not intend to reduce the VAT rate on ATs, because that would be one of the things that could make it easier for municipalities and not be such a heavy burden in relation to having to get these aids.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104205	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104206	I would first of all like to say, and this is also what I mentioned in my initial answer, that this is something on which the government has a very, very great focus. It is for the same reason that, both this year and also in the years to come, it will be a key employment policy objective, which I, as Minister of Employment, announce through the Employment Council to the municipalities, namely that there must be work for and a separate focus on the fact that more people with disabilities must have a link with the labour market, whether it is a few hours or many hours. In relation to the future, our current knowledge indicates that there is general satisfaction with the arrangements in the legislation, but that it may be difficult to manage, among other things. because it is a law which has not been renewed in its basic substance since its adoption in 1998. That is, of course, the compensation law to which I refer. This is also why there is a need to revisit the entire legal framework, and that is why we are looking at the possibilities of writing through the compensation law, which can hopefully help a lighter administration to help more people with disabilities in jobs, among others. support for AT.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104317	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104322	Thank you. After all, we were in the agreement where we set a huge amount of precisely to ensure that people with disabilities could get to work, but also get into education, and it was also about setting aside funds for this competence card. So I would like to hear from the Minister how precisely these things have been followed up in order to ensure this, because the funds were set aside. Has it also been implemented in relation to retirement age, so that, of course, we do not lose our aid after retirement age? As far as I remember, it was changed, but now I am not an employment rapporteur, and it was under another resort. But the Minister can confirm and answer this: why is it only in three municipalities that one looks at the use of competence cards? As far as I heard the Minister say, it was in three municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104411	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104412	Just to recapitulate, I would like to say that I also mentioned a little in my initial reply that the work on implementing the 11 initiatives of the agreement is in full swing, and work is being done, among other things. to promote awareness of compensation opportunities through campaigns and seminars targeted at key people in the job centres. We are also in the process, as Mrs Adsbøl says, of testing a competence card in three municipalities. So, as far as I am aware, it has always been a common understanding that it should be tested in three municipalities, but I would very much like to look into that and return to the rapporteur about it, even if the rapporteur allows it in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104456	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to any of the Ministers. That is why we are moving on to the debate itself, and it is now the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104524	Yeah, thanks for that. A text has been worked on for adoption to this question debate, on which the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party have so far agreed with the SF, and I will start by reading it out: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers it important that citizens with disabilities receive the help they need in order to be able to live an active life on an equal footing with others. For persons with a physical disability, the need for assistance includes to a large extent access to aids that for many can also be a crucial condition for training or for carrying out a job. The Danish Parliament notes that many stakeholders and citizens express concern that since the municipal reform there has been a despecialisation of the specialized social area and that knowledge is being lost, so that it can be difficult to get the right individually adapted aid. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to include the AT area in a future reform of the disability area with the aim of ensuring that citizens with physical disabilities have access to specialised counselling and individually adapted aids. The government is encouraged to actively involve disabled people's organisations in this. • V 114). Of course, in the SF, we look forward to the government, hopefully, living up to...
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104647	All I have to do is ask you to go a little beyond the procedure, because normally you read it up to the very end (Charlotte Broman Mølbæk Okay), but now it has been read out, and then I just have to say that it is part of the further discussion, whether it becomes a decision or a rejection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423104659	Thank you. Then we've sort of got rid of it. I hope, of course, that the government will respond to the call that the Danish Parliament is now making, so that we can move on to negotiations and we will be working on a reform of this area, because what we have done so far is not far enough. We are doing things too stupid, we are doing things too short-sighted and we are going to put the citizens in really unworthy situations in their lives. I would have liked us to have had a text for adoption, something more precise, and something more direction and promise had also been given, in relation to what we are going to live up to, for example that we are going to change the delimitation circular; that we are going to work on it; that we are going to get it even closer and actually get rid of the morass that is, compared to when municipalities and regions are arguing about who is going to pay the bill. We would also very much have liked to have been able to come closer to a work and a joint statement that we should have looked at local authorities' confession practices in relation to decisions that go against people getting into education and getting into jobs. Unfortunately, there could not be a majority in favour of this, and we are really sorry about that, but of course this is something that we will clearly bring into the future work and certainly also in relation to making easier practice when, among other things, we do. is also about to make some re-evaluations in relation to aids. We can do things a lot wiser. I said before that it does not look so good in relation to the employment rate. There are many more that we could get in employment. There are also many more young people we should get in education. So there is a great inequality, and that is why I would also like to hear from the Minister why it is that you should only apply for AT once you have got a job. Could it be an idea for us to create a system where you had a pre-grant, and then you could go to the employer in question and say: I have been granted these aids and they will enter into force if I get this job? In this way, the employer also knows what the conditions are. That could be one way to do it. We could also go in and work with the legislation so that we also make sure that decisions in the municipalities should not, in fact, simply go in and stand in the way of training or employment, so that we can prevent some of these examples to which we have referred today. We could also go in and look at the financing part, and I would very much like to ask the Minister about that. Could we look at a perhaps more solidarity financing model so that it is not just the social area that has to face the first economic challenge when it actually has positive dynamic effects later on? As I said in my opening speech, a one-off cost of AT is certainly much cheaper with a socio-economic aim than that of getting a person on permanent transfer income with all sorts of physical impairments. Finally, I did not hear the Minister of Social Affairs answer whether the Minister thinks that it is reasonable and that it is well-functioning that there are so many differences between the means available to the citizen and how and how long the waiting times are. Because it is also important in relation to whether this citizen can get into education and jobs and, in fact, also have a reasonably well-functioning life, which also prevents more health challenges. So I hope that we can get closer and that the Minister will respond a little more clearly to that, because it should be a professional individual assessment that should set the direction for this rather than a level of service, depending on how ailing a municipality's economy can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105058	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105100	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you for calling this question debate. But I just have to say that the government can be glad that it has such an exemplary support party in the form of SF, because SF really had the opportunity here in the Danish Parliament today to swing with the crib, if you want action in this area. Have the possibilities been explored, also in relation to obtaining a majority behind securing action in that area, both in relation to the delineation circular, in relation to the use of faith and declarations of laws and all these things? However, the SF has not made any effort to do so, and I can therefore understand that the SF is a little frustrated by the adoption text in which there is really not so much content. However, I would like to hear from the SF whether SF will be involved in fighting for us to have a faster and simplified procedure for dealing with the use of faith and legislative declarations, especially in cases where, as a disabled person, one has not improved one's ability to function and still has the same need for help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105205	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105207	Thank you. It may well be that there are abilities I have to work with; I shall not deny that, and I will never refuse that. But I can at least promise the people who are sitting here today that I have made it very clear and clear what I want, and I will pursue that. It doesn't end here, as they say. So we're gonna keep going with that. In addition, I would like to say that we very much agree with DF's rapporteur that this is precisely something we should also look at when we hopefully have to come over and talk to the Minister of Social Affairs in relation to the practice of confession, and that much more faith and legislative declarations are used.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105247	Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105248	Well, thank you. Yeah, you can always get better at things. And the rapporteur just needs to understand that the Danish People's Party would like to help the SF in this matter, because the Danish People's Party has been in that situation with another government. So we would like to take up the fight in order to ensure that people with disabilities receive the help they need, including AT, and that it should not be a fight in relation to which municipality you live in. It is also the case today that you risk losing your aid simply because of moving to another municipality. Here SF and Dansk Folkeparti can really stand together. So what will SF do to get us to the finish line?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105327	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105328	Well, I think that's very nice, and I look forward to continued cooperation. We can, of course, continue to work on how we can proceed. In other words, first of all, we will look into the possibility of including it in the negotiations that may then come over with the Minister of Social Affairs when we talk about reform of the specialized social area. I think it really makes a great deal of sense to think it in there. But here today, we are, of course, focusing on certain points that are so crucially important to deal with if we really and really believe that we are going to change this and that we will do better for people with disabilities and prevent negative derived effects from coming and, in fact, also that people can neither get into education nor jobs nor have a particularly nice life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105416	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur for the questioners, and then it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105437	Thank you, Madam President. I might as well say that I have been looking forward to this debate, both because it is a different way of debating and because the subject is so close to my heart. I have worked with cognitive disabilities all my adult life, from studying at the teacher seminar until I worked at the Langager School, which is a school for children with autism and adhd. Today we are going to discuss physical aids, but I might as well say that I am just going to be so happy and proud to be part of a government that puts people with disabilities at the top of the list. When both the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Employment are so precise that we want to create a Denmark where there is room and need for everyone, then I know that I am a Social Democrat. I also know that we are not in the goal and that we need to work to ensure that everyone has equal opportunities to contribute and to be part of Danish society, regardless of the level of function. Indeed, we must ensure a society in which people with physical disabilities can get the help and the tools they need to be able to live a life on an equal footing with other citizens. It is at the heart of the individual's quality of life and participation in society that you have a link with the labour market. That is how it is to be a Social Democrat: there is a very strong part of the labour market in the way we see our society. So it is not just a duty; it is also a right to have a job. It is important that we also look at the fact that there are aids that can help citizens with a physical disability to have the opportunity to have as normal and independent a life in the labour market as possible. Aids also help to enable citizens with physical disabilities to carry out education and live an active leisure life. Education is a central part of the individual's development and well-being, and as the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly also mentioned, there are some adjustments to give people with cognitive and physical challenges an opportunity in the education system. So we're on our way, but we're not in the finish line. If, as a society, we do not provide the necessary tools for people with physical disabilities, this also means that there is a large community staff, while at the same time losing a group of citizens on the floor. Therefore, the principle of compensating for a disability is also a central part of the Danish disability policy, as has also been mentioned several times today. The Service Act states that aids can be provided and that support is essential for people with physical disabilities to be able to live on an equal footing with other citizens. Therefore, as the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly has repeatedly said, both in this Chamber and outside, it must not be a struggle for the citizens to get the support to which they are entitled. Nevertheless, we find that people with physical disabilities are less employed, fewer have a youth education and many are less satisfied with life compared to citizens without disabilities. It notes studies carried out by, inter alia, The Trade and Industry Council of the Workers' Movement and VIVE, and of course we cannot accept this in our welfare society. That is why I am also very pleased that the government will look into whether there is a need for action and which can deal with the new challenges in the field of AT. I actually also have an invisible disability, which is dyslexia, and a word like the AT area is actually quite difficult and more secure the right help for people with a physical disability. I think it looks as if we have launched a large number of initiatives to improve the area. In fact, I would also like to draw your attention briefly to a scheme which I think is quite exceptionally good, namely the KLAP job. Around Christmas I was invited by Bjørn to an online debate about KLAPjob. He himself has had several, and this is a way of getting people with physical and cognitive challenges to be able to maintain in the labour market. It is just to say that this is one of the measures we have in Denmark and that if you have some challenges, you can actually be allowed to join the labour market. Bjorn is totally happy to go to work, but there are also some things he needs help with. We need to be constantly nuanced in creating a labour market where there are the tools that are needed, but we also need to talk about a labour market that is ready and ready for people with disabilities who can be allowed to be part of both active leisure on an equal footing with the rest of us, but also a labour market and education. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105940	Thank you. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423105943	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I also think that mental disability needs to be looked at, because a service dog is a very good tool for helping that group. But now the Social Democrat rapporteur says that she is very proud to be a Social Democrat. I would just like to say to the rapporteur that in the Danish People's Party we have made several proposals here in the Danish Parliament also in the last session, since there was another government and the Social Democratic Party has in fact largely voted down all the proposals to ensure improvements in the area of disability, ensure legal certainty, ensure faster help and make up with the postal code lottery. So I can only mention to the rapporteur that in the last session we actually had a resolution to ensure that families who had children with disabilities were given holistic action and help. The motion for a resolution was co-sponsored by S, but when we were here in the Parliamentary Chamber, S withdrew its support, and it ended up that we did not get a majority in this Chamber. However, the rapporteur is really proud of the disability policy initiatives that the government has not really taken, because it has not improved for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110103	After all, neither the rapporteur can be taken away from the strong indignation of the Danish People's Party nor my pride in being a Social Democrat. It's a feeling you've been working on for so many years. When I say this, it's actually because I can see all around that the indictment that there's a need and space for everyone is something we're working on all the time. But I also said in my rapporteur's speech that I do not actually believe we are in the end. I think that all three ministers have actually made that clear: that we have something we should have done together. In fact, when I say I am proud of it, it is because I believe that a society needs all citizens. We need all of us to participate on an equal footing. So I am quite clear and I also hope the rapporteur is ready to enter into negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110152	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110155	Well, we're quite ready for negotiations. After all, we need action in this area. There hasn't been a will all around to act in this area. So when we have had these proposals in the Chamber, there has been no will. There is a willingness to act when you speak to the press, there is a willingness to act when you are called up for a question debate so I will see that. I want to see action before I think there will be action and improvement in this area. But the Danish People's Party is happy to enter into negotiations. But when will we be called for these negotiations? Could the Socialist rapporteur tell us?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110229	After all, I am not the negotiating leader, and the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party also knows that very well. But I just want to point out that 128.4 million. kr. I think that 11 initiatives are, in my view, action. By the way, we have been sitting with the rapporteur on the rate pool. We have made repeated initiatives. But of course we are not in the finish line, and we also need to do something. And when you look at what the previous government, with the support of the Danish People's Party, did not achieve, I understand that the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party actually thinks we have plenty of work to do. And I look forward to it being done together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110302	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110308	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I have three questions for the rapporteur. Will the Social Democratic Party help to sharpen or work on better practices in terms of the delineation circular so that we can put an end to the foolish struggle between municipalities and regions where citizens are caught in the middle? Will the Social Democratic Party help to work on a solution that can create the possibility of pre-financing, so that you have a pre-financing of aids when you have to look for work, instead of getting started seeking aids only after you have got a job? The final question is: will the Social Democratic Party help to look at the local authorities' confession practice in order to ensure that decisions are not taken that oppose the possibility of getting into training and doing a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110401	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110406	On Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) I would like to say that I think it makes sense that we are looking at the delimitation circular, and I think the Minister has replied that this is one of the initiatives that will be taken. So I look forward to discussing that. I just forgot Question No. 2 but it may be that Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk can repeat it in her second brief remark. However, as far as this point of admission is concerned, I think that we have had a discussion all the way through about what the legislation is like and how it is implemented, because when people who have a physical disability experience that there are challenges, whether you can actually achieve the compensation so that you can implement what you want, it is essential to see that the intention you have to compensate is actually implemented. So, of course, it makes sense to pursue it, but as for whether or not we have to change it, I need to look at it more. I can't answer that. Now I remember Question No 1, by Mr von Wogau on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 2, it was about... (Second Vice-President we have to wait a little longer). Yeah. Excuse me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110513	Here you go, Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110520	Thank you. When we hear the examples that have been mentioned today, there are a large number of examples, and I am sure that the rapporteur also has examples of awards in the municipalities, which actually means that you cannot do your training or do a job, does the rapporteur not think it is right that we should look at the award practice and if nothing else has looked at what the challenges in it are and how we can support it being cleared up? Secondly, I would also like to hear the rapporteur's reply as to whether she believes that it is reasonable and, moreover, sensible practice that there are such large differences in the municipalities, in relation to what kind of aids can be obtained and how long the waiting period is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110600	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110604	I would just like to say that these are huge questions that the rapporteur is asking and that it is simply not right to have to answer in 30 seconds. I would like to discuss this and I would like to do it in more detail, and I also believe that some broad discussions have been planned. Having said that, I think that we should of course look at whether the intention we have had is also being implemented, and I think that the Minister for Social Affairs has repeatedly said that we need the help that is needed. Of course, we need to discuss it and see how it is implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110635	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423110659	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the SF for raising this question debate on the current rules in the field of visitation, both in the municipalities and in the regions in relation to the whole area of aid, because this is an important debate we are going to have today. It is about justice, respect and legal certainty. Today, Danish disability policy is such that people with disabilities and people with development impairment are equal to other citizens, which is of course a matter of course, because congenital or acquired disability must never mean that we Danes do not have equal opportunities. The principles of accessibility, compensation, sectoral responsibility and equal treatment mean that, as a society, we bear a responsibility for citizens with physical or mental disabilities to be able to participate in all activities of society on an equal footing with other citizens and for them to have equal opportunities, for example. to take training or to maintain links with the labour market. In recent years we have been able to read heartbreaking stories about what Danske Handicaporganisations call the postcode lottery, that is, that someone in a municipality can get funding for an aid, while another in the neighbouring municipality gets a refusal, despite having exactly the same challenges. The minister has defended this practice on several occasions and refers to the established level of service of the municipalities as a justification for the lottery. Unfortunately, however, a study merely shows that the municipalities in the vast majority of cases, in fact, in 88 per cent. of the cases, do not refer at all to fixed service levels in the reasons for their decisions. The same study also shows that in more than half of the cases the municipalities, approx. 60% of the cases, does not refer to the legal provisions on which a decision is based. This has major implications for the legal certainty of citizens, because there is simply a lack of transparency and adequate information when the municipalities make their decisions. Unfortunately, the postal code lottery also applies to waiting times for processing. For example: the waiting time for a disabled car may vary greatly. It is hopeless that there are municipalities where you have to wait over 100 weeks for it. As if that were not quite clear enough, we have also recently heard about Bettina Jensen, who has been waiting for more than 10 months to decide whether or not to have a wheelchair. It was a case that ended with a refusal. Bettina tells us that the family has considered moving to the neighbouring municipality in order to reduce the waiting time. In fact, they were also recommended by among others. Physiotherapists. Unfortunately, a study also shows that there are errors in almost half of all cases of adult disability that land on the table at the Ankestyrelsen and that end up having to be resolved again. It does not consider the Left to be particularly respectful and fair towards citizens with disabilities. The Left takes the legal certainty of disabled citizens very seriously, because it is of course no use to talk about accessibility and equal treatment for all people if we cannot also ensure that citizens with physical or mental disabilities can actually participate in all the activities of society on an equal footing with others. The Left therefore believes that we must create solutions that really make a difference and that really improve the lives of those citizens with a disability who depend on their means and resources. For the Left, the aim is to create security for citizens that their help does not suddenly disappear and to put in place a one-way practice across the country so that we can get rid of the postal code lottery. Only in this way can we create justice, respect and legal certainty. I have said this before, and I would like to repeat it: I think that the Minister for Social Affairs should convene discussions, debates and rapporteur meetings, yes, you can call it what you want, as long as we can meet and face each other as soon as possible. I personally, as rapporteur, would like to take part in this. It is about how we can have a proper discussion about how we face the challenge in the area of disability. For solved, it has to. The other two ministers who are here today can also be involved very appropriately. We in the Left would very much like to contribute to this, because we believe that changes need to be made. Thank you. Second Vice-President Thank you for that. Hey, I'll also remember to read out a text for adoption. On behalf of the Left and Conservatives, who are behind it, I would like to read out the following text: Proposals for adoption • Better opportunities in the education sector and in the labour market are essential because it gives companies better opportunities to welcome citizens with disabilities, and it gives greater encouragement for citizens with disabilities to start an education or take a job. For this reason, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to put forward a legislative proposal as soon as possible which intends to ensure that legislation and visitation practices in municipalities and regions in the field of AT ensure that citizens with disabilities have an active life with adequate training opportunities and the possibility of maintaining their links with the labour market. This is important in order to create solutions that provide security for citizens with disabilities. For this reason, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to put forward a bill that strengthens legal certainty and reduces the waiting time for cases for people with disabilities. V 115).
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111155	Thank you for that, and this proposal for adoption is also part of the further debate. I'm gonna have to ask for it. Then there are some questions, and that is first Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111218	Thank you. I'll be brief. In fact, the former Minister of Health devoted a great deal of energy to trying to get municipalities and regions to cooperate, also in relation to the demarcation circular and other things, which, of course, means that citizens risk falling between two chairs. But I am listening to the fact that the Left does not think that there are system errors that we need to correct. Does the Left think that we can solve the challenges of sectoral and regional demarcation problems, in the current system, or does the rapporteur think that perhaps there is in fact a structural problem which the previous government did not tackle, why we still have this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111314	In the Left, we have said on several occasions that what is not difficult must be close, and in fact that premise is quite obvious to include in all of this. So, in the discussion about what should lie in the regions and what should lie in the municipalities, there is something that is obvious in relation to the things that are very specialised, for example. children with a disability that we also have some of in the municipality I come from and where we are out in something specialized where there are very few. It is obvious that when these children are still under the auspices of OOH and are associated with our most talented children's urologists and pediatricians, they get something more to have said in relation to the visitation process, and that is where it is so unfortunate that municipalities and regions just do not talk better together. It's exactly the kind of places I think it could be exciting to look at where it is in relation to the search and funding and the economy, as all three are things that lie with the municipality. I find it extremely regrettable that there are specialized areas in the municipalities where it does not make sense that it is not the regions that are more involved in that process. So the answer is yes. I think there is a structural problem and some challenges there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111410	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111417	I think that this is the case in a nutshell, because the former Minister for Health also tried to make a proposal for the close and coherent health care, where municipalities and regions should agree to clarify these boundaries, and it simply ended with a minority opinion from the municipalities, which said that it depends on the economy. So we're asking some people to work together to agree on how to do this job, and they can't make it work. And the rapporteur's answer to that question is that we must now ask these people to sit down and agree on how to make it work. In fact, are we not just getting the same answer, and is there not a structural challenge that is also about the need to be clear about the division of responsibilities between municipalities and regions and municipalities, for example, or, for that matter, between regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111508	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111511	I also think that we in this House should look at how we can make it clear to municipalities and regions that they need to be better at working together. Now it is aids that we are talking about today. This is, of course, an example of something that is utterly hopeless, where there are even greater differences in the different places and where we also see citizens who, under the auspices of the region, are being repatriated, while at the same time they need very vital tools which can take a week to be sent and which should have been there when the people in question came home. So I certainly believe that the rapporteur from the SF has some of the right thing to do. There is a structural challenge here, which it is imperative that we look at in the Folketing, but also with the municipal autonomy in mind and with respect for the differences out there in the municipalities. On the other hand, there just has to be a proper quality and a proper service, regardless of which municipality you live in. And now my time is up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111555	Yes, it is. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111602	Thank you. It is, of course, possible to say that some very nice words have been made by the rapporteur of the Left in relation to the fact that we would like to look at this area, that we would like to look at this area, and we ourselves have made several suggestions for improvements in the area of disability, both in negotiations where we have been given part of the pool of rates • now called the reserve • but also in the Parliamentary Chamber. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left, how many proposals have been put forward by the Left in this Chamber to improve the area of disability, that is to say, solutions. One is, of course, that it is easy to say that we must do better and that we need to negotiate, but how many proposals has the Left itself made in the Chamber to improve the area of disability, both in relation to AT, but also in relation to legal certainty? Perhaps the rapporteur could mention that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111656	I would just like to start by commenting on what the rapporteur from the DF talks about, in relation to the fact that you want to talk about things well and that you want to look at it and look at it. I actually mentioned some specific things. Because I mention precisely in relation to the entire search process that I think there is something that is quite obvious here to look at, so that municipalities and regions cooperate better. In relation to the solution, I have not just written down what the Left in here has made of concrete solutions. But the paradox of this is that in the municipality where I am a city council politician, when I have made several proposals in my committee, where there are also people from DF, I have sometimes lacked that support. I have to say that. I have been standing here in Parliament on Tuesday, and on a Wednesday I have been in the council of the city. It was good enough on Teams and hasceleret in relation to the whole social change rate, and I have said: you know what, yesterday I stood in Parliament and had the opposite challenge, and now I stand here as a city council politician, where I really think we can do something, and stand alone with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111759	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111802	Well, now it's under parliament and not under city council. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur reply to what proposals the rapporteur has put forward in the Parliamentary Assembly. So not everyone, because it may not always be possible to remember this if many, but just one, proposals have been put forward to improve the area of disability. Could Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen also say whether there will be any proposals from the Left that we can deal with here in the Chamber for improvements in the area of disability?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111834	In relation to the latter, I think that the rapporteur from the DF should ask our disability and social rapporteur, because I am not a disability and social rapporteur; I am only a temporary rapporteur, because I am a family rapporteur, which is why I have not tabled a resolution personally and therefore cannot answer what previous rapporteurs have done. Unfortunately, I am not counting on that here today. However, I am a family rapporteur and I am also tabling my own motions for resolutions, and I would also very much like to do so, together with the rapporteur from the DF, it should be interesting in the area of disability. However, in relation to what it is like in the municipalities, we are discussing it again today. Because it is out there in the municipalities that some of these things can really be put forward, and we are discussing it as municipal politicians and as city council politicians, and there I am not getting that support for any of those proposals. In fact, I feel that it is really, really a pity that you in the municipalities, where you can move on to it, choose not to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111922	Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423111938	Thank you for that and thank you for a fine speech and expression by the rapporteur. I shall look forward to that work, and I hope that we will soon be called to these negotiations at one of the ministries, hopefully in a cross-sectoral way. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Left will help to look at a solution that could provide a pre-financing for AT, so that the whole aid package is in such a position to be ready when looking for a job. After all, it is really hard for employers to be able to understand what kind of person they are hiring and how that person will be able to function, when you do not know exactly what aids are being granted or how long it will take. So will the Left help to look at that model?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112015	I fully agree with the rapporteur from the SF that it would be wonderful if we were to start negotiating or discuss this as soon as possible, that we rapporteurs who have an interest in this could sit down in the ministry with the minister, and it is of course our social and disability rapporteur who has to go, but I would like to go as a number. 2, because I think it is very, very interesting and important that we get started quickly. The Left itself did something about some rights in the field of education. In other words, we ensured that people with disabilities were able to keep their help in the transition from education to work, and that sounds a bit like something that the rapporteur from the SF is also aware of. So I certainly think it is interesting, and I certainly think it is something that we should look at, but I guess more of an answer I can't get it right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112055	Thank you. Again it is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112101	Thank you. I would then like to know whether the rapporteur also thinks that we should look at the practice of confession that exists in the municipalities in order to eliminate those differences. As it is today, one aid can be granted in one municipality, while in the other municipality it cannot be granted. So there's a totally random principle in this area. Does the Left agree that this is a problem you acknowledge and will help solve it, both when we look at what aids you can get, but also in relation to processing times? For just one example, there may be a processing period of as little as 3 weeks and up to 1⁄2 years in connection with a grant on a ball duvet, and we know what happens to a small child's life in just six months. So there is also very much a dynamic effect of granting it in good time. So will the Left help to look at tightenings here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112153	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112157	I think it is important that there is this respect for the diversity in the municipalities when we have municipal autonomy. Having said that, I fully agree that the bottom has been reached when there may be something similar to 12-13 weeks of waiting in one municipality and so far over 100 in the other on some exact aids. Then we have just gone beyond the point where there is room for diversity and where it has nothing to do with service and quality and municipal autonomy. After all, we in the Left pay tribute to that. However, it is no good to feel obliged to move to the neighbouring municipality if that challenge hits you, and I fully agree with the rapporteur from the SF in relation to the ball duvet. Now my elder himself has needed it, and I just got it quick, and I can only think what it has had of challenges. Because I was just about to go up in the glue that he didn't want to sleep at night, so I can understand the hopelessness these parents are having. It must be quite disgusting to wait for aids that are absolutely vital for this family to function in everyday life at all, and we must get rid of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112253	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112258	Thank you. In fact, I am very pleased that the rapporteur says in conclusion that there is a great deal to be done. Because when you look at what both the Labour Movement's Enterprise Council and VIVE have clarified, you can see that over the past time there is loss of ability, loss of labour market contact, loss of own experienced well-being and well-being. So what does the rapporteur really think we should have done when we had the opportunity to point it out ourselves? I mean, at least I get worried when I see that there are a lot of people with disabilities who do not actually see that there is room for them in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112347	Well, the Left actually came up with a disability play in 2018. When we were in government, together with the other parties, we made a pool agreement from 2019-2022 in the field of employment, with a view to helping more people with disabilities into jobs and training, and we secured 128 million. kr. In addition, there are 11 different initiatives to be taken. So you've tried and done something about this, too. The problem is, of course, that today we can see that there are still too many challenges and that there are still too many differences for that to be right and fair, and that is also why I quite frankly ask if we could not meet the Minister in the Ministry of Social Affairs, look each other in the eye and sit down and have a proper conversation about this, so that we can really get it lifted. In fact, I do not think this should be a political battleground, as I have said in previous debates. In fact, I'd rather meet the people in here in a more closed context, so we can talk this through and get to the bottom of it and figure out how to lift this area forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112445	Thank you. Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112449	Indeed, I think it makes sense for us to share in solving real people's real problems. However, when we do that, we also have to stand on the cover that there is actually a lot to be done and that people experience that their well-being is not as good as it should be and that we can see that people do not have the attachment that they should have had. We can then see that something was done in 2018, and it could also have been done in 2010 or in 2008. So I look forward to and look forward to discussing it, and that the Left will agree to it and have some good steps taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112522	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112526	I really only welcome the fact that the rapporteur is taking the initiative of the Left and the speech by the Left today in favour of it. Because I think that, just as the Social Democrat rapporteur so nicely says, we should share this. There are many other places and areas where it is politically a completely different matter and where we can debate better against each other in some areas. But I do not think that we should do that here in the area of disability. There I would much rather be honest and sober that we sat down in a closed regiment and made some proper arrangements about this, because it is also so vulnerable an area. It's a bit like when we're talking about the children first, and there are just some areas of our political activities where things are very, very vulnerable and where I would also like us to sit down and look into each other's eyes at times without it happening here in the Parliament hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112613	Thank you. No one else has any comments, so we move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423112636	Thank you. It is an exciting debate and also a much-needed debate, and thanks to the SF for raising it. There are massive challenges in this area, and these are people with disabilities who cannot get their tools, older people who cannot get a walker, because it is not an aid or at least not considered an aid in all municipalities. So there is a need for political action and a little less talk. The practice we are seeing today is in many cases not fair and, as I have said in this debate before, we in the Danish People's Party have raised the issue in several proposals to improve this area, and we have also succeeded in some things in this area. I can tell you about the suspensive effect, that is to say the warning system, where you cannot have your help taken away, but have the opportunity to have your case dealt with by the Ankestyrelsen, but it does not contain all the paragraphs so that we could expand it, thus giving suspensive effect so that you do not lose your aid or help. But that is what we were able to achieve at that time. We have also achieved something in terms of accessibility in the polling stations and, in other words, we have put in place tools, and we have introduced blind people into the driving system, we have introduced a lot of good things, and we have fought through many good things, but we are far from achieving our goal. And in the Danish People's Party we are quite ready to fight further, because we do not think it should be a struggle to get an aid or to retain the aid that has once been granted in the past. People who need an aid that improves their work opportunities, their quality of life and their life situation and in general improves their self-sufficiency must, of course, as a society do everything we can to accommodate and help. After all, we have put forward many proposals for improvements in this area, including in terms of strengthening legal certainty. We put forward a proposal on the compulsory use of faith and legislative declarations when it comes to replacing the aid that has been granted. We proposed that it should be made easier for municipalities and citizens, and this meant that citizens should have the right to re-grant aids and disabled cars under Section 112 of the Service Act and Section 114 of the Service Act only by means of a declaration of faith and law, if the applicant's ability and needs are essentially unchanged since the last decision of the municipal council and the applicant then makes a declaration of faith and law. This will, of course, reduce bureaucracy and the number of complaints and save money and, above all, will be of great benefit to the people involved. We also made a report in committee on the basis of our proposals, and there we agreed that beliefs and legislative declarations were a sensible part of the procedure, but there is much to suggest that the municipalities do not make use of the simplified procedure of faith and legislative declarations, at least not when you look at the area of disabled cars, where you can see that citizens have to fight to get a refund of what was once called a car for well-being, I think it has become a city of Russia, and there is therefore a need for us to do something about it in here. People with disabilities need exactly as much as they need to be able to replace their disabled car when it is worn out as they have with other aids. Unfortunately, we are hearing about a great many examples of how bad things are in the area of disability, and I would say that we are a little on the same street as with the motion for a resolution we have tabled in the past on the suspensive effect and, as I mentioned, we should not just be able to get our help removed when one's ability to function has not improved, we should also have the right to maintain our help and try our case. We have also heard in the past about the whole problem of allocating blindness to the blind, who will not get their sight back, but be blind for the rest of their lives, and we believe in fact in the Danish People's Party that it would be very good to have some of the proposals introduced and implemented in the legislation with faith and legislative declarations, and we can still achieve that, and we can also jointly report on it in committee. So, with all the good tactics that are today about improvements in this area, we can actually, in our committee, draw up a joint report on it and get the government to act on it. It will of course be of great benefit to the citizens if we do so together. As far as the length of the proceedings is concerned, that is a huge challenge. At the time, we fought in the Danish People's Party for these procedures simply to appear on the local authorities' website, because they did not do so earlier, but they do so now. After all, the whole challenge is that the municipalities do not meet their own processing deadlines, and that is simply not good enough. And now I see that the President is standing up and then I have to... President Yes, that means that time has been spent in a sensible way). Yeah, that's good. May I read out my proposal for adoption? At least you can, please. I'm sorry, I said you). Thank you. It is fantastic when the President corrects the President, but thank you for that. I shall submit the following (on behalf of the Danish People's Party): Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to introduce a right for citizens with disabilities for a simple and rapid procedure in the case of re-granting aids and disabled cars in cases where the citizen's ability and needs have essentially remained unchanged since the initial allocation date. The simple and rapid handling of cases must be ensured through the use of declarations of faith and of laws signed by the citizen, thereby voicing that his or her ability and needs are essentially unchanged. This will lead to resource savings for the municipality and ensure a quick and simple procedure for citizens, and the citizen will no longer have to feel insecurity and nervousness for months or years while the matter is being dealt with. The Folketing instructs the government to convene parties of the Folketing as soon as possible so as to ensure that citizens with disabilities have an active life with adequate training opportunities and the possibility of maintaining links with the labour market and with a focus on the demarcation problem between health care tools and aids under the Services Act. • V 116).
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113300	Thank you. I understood that the proposal for adoption was tabled on behalf of the Danish People's Party, and it will then also be included in the further debate. That is why we thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl. And then it's sir. Henrik Vinther, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113325	Thank you for that, and thank you for the opportunity to discuss aids for people with disabilities or, in fact, the framework of it, that is, how we work to ensure that you get the help that you need, because of course you have to be able to count on the help that you are ill, disabled or otherwise exposed to, that you get the help that we have agreed. And, in this respect, agreement means what we have legislated for. It is actually good to hear that today there is an agreement that we can see what the problem is and also a willingness to do something about it. Because the question is what we agreed. We have agreed that, in order to put everyone on equal terms, we give some people an extra helping hand. This applies, among other things, to: people with disabilities, which according to among others. WHO is about every 10 citizens. We have promised to help them. And can you count on the community? Yeah, in most cases. There will be good work on things in municipalities and regions across the country, in terms of how we find the best support, and it is good that it is safe for most. At the same time, however, we sometimes find that it is neither enough nor good enough. And some people, and I mean too many people, do not see that the meeting they have with the system is a good thing, and they experience that they do not get the help or the aids they are entitled to and need. It will therefore be a meeting marked by distrust, uncertainty and fear of not getting the help that is really needed. This is also documented by a study by the Central Disability Council. I think it came last week and it speaks its clear language: there is a growing gap of confidence between the system on the one hand and the citizens with disabilities on the other. We must remember that this is what we have agreed with the legislation, in other words that we want to support these people. There is a big difference between how you as a citizen can experience help in the individual municipality. There is too much difference and diversity, and part of the explanation is the despecialisation we have seen in the context of structural reform, which was already warned against when the reform was adopted and which we are now seeing the consequences of. Municipalities are not always robust enough financially and professionally to be able to make the right decisions, and economic pressure, because other important welfare areas are pushing themselves, may be tempted to prioritise the area down. This gives diversity from municipality to municipality. It gives a mark of coincidence. At the same time, it creates an unfortunate situation in the meeting between the individual citizen and the system. The answer is that we need to look at management, education and more solid organisation. Management, because it is first and foremost about the individual task and hence the priority; education, because the people who meet the citizen must of course be dressed for the task; and organisation, because, although no one believes that it solves the whole problem of changing the organisation, it can help to meet some of the challenges we have seen, i.e. the unfortunate consequences of among other things. the structural reform and despecialisation that has taken place there, and also the decoupling that exists between the various areas. We have seen this in terms of the fact that there are the three ministers here today; the three areas that are here. Therefore, we look forward to the analysis we are now working on of the specialized social area so that we can start looking at all these parts in context. I am very much looking forward to that discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113632	There is a brief comment from Mrs Charlotte Mølbak Broman. Sorry, Charlotte Broman Mølbak, SF. That's how it was. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113641	Oh, it's so hard, President. The last name is actually Mølbæk, but don't worry about it. I'm thinking I'm the one talking now. Thank you to the rapporteur. First of all, I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that the evaluation itself on specialized social areas is not covered by the AT area. So the fact that we are having this debate today helps to clarify some very specific challenges that have negative consequences for many other areas. I know that the Radical Left is pleased with education and employment, so what does the rapporteur think about that only 66 per cent? of young people, 18-year-olds, with disabilities are in education only 66 per cent. of people with disabilities who are in real employment? Is that good enough and should we not start doing something so that we can move on to those figures and not wait for an evaluation that is not actually quite about aids?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113744	I can hear from the rapporteur that the rapporteur is also concerned about education and employment, and I am pleased about that. Of course, it is important that young people with disabilities can also get an education and can get a job, thereby helping both to have a good life themselves, but also to contribute to society. There's no need to wait for everything. When I say this in this context, it is because I think we should look at it together, that is, how we build up a system that has the citizen at the centre and that does not look into the silos every time. That is my point in this, and I do not rule out any action in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113811	Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113814	Thank you. I am also very pleased to hear from some of the ministers here that they are aware that there is a problem that needs to be resolved, including cross-sectoral ones, and that is why I would like to ask the Radicals whether the Radicals will be involved in working on the recognition practice of the municipalities, which today brings about very large individual differences, in which aid can be given, and in fact also brings about very large differences in the length of proceedings, which will precisely put an end to the possibility of getting into education and jobs. Is this something that the Radical Left wants to work on in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113853	As I said, we do not rule out anything in advance, and it could be one of the ways to go. What is important is that we have a coherence in everything that ensures that the young people we are talking about here have the same conditions as their peers who do not have disabilities. And I don't rule anything out in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113906	Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423113908	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would really like to hear Radicale's rapporteur on the Danish People's Party's proposal for compulsory use of faith and legislative declarations in relation to re-awards, i.e. in relation to faster processing, faster re-awards when you have got a wheelchair or a disabled car and your ability to function is unchanged. You still have the same need for this aid, but we do know that people today have to fight a fight with complaints to the Ankestyrelsen and back and back and a long processing period. Therefore, it might be interesting to hear what the Radical Left thinks about that part and whether the Radical Left will help improve it by making it compulsory in relation to the re-allocation of aids. This will ensure that citizens also have a sense of security and certainty. Are radicals ready for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114011	We don't rule anything out in advance. It would be wrong for me to take the discussion here, but one of the ways is to look at how we ensure that people whose needs we know are constant, so to speak over time, should not be exposed to coincidence over time. It could be one of the ways to go, so let's take it into the further talk about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114028	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114029	I'm glad. Then there's the other part in relation to this, and it's a wish that the Danish People's Party has and that I actually hear SF also has. That is what happens when you move the municipality, compared to the fact that you actually risk losing your aid. Recently there was an article about it and about Mikkel, who pulled a rivet in the postcode lottery, and the aid disappeared with the transfer to Aarhus. So is it also a subject on which we can agree, that the aid simply follows, whether you move the municipality or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114103	I am glad that many people choose to move to Aarhus. It is a good place to live, and it must of course be the case that the starting point is not the municipality, but the individual. We need to build a system that makes it the individual that is at the centre, and not the practice one has in the municipality. Therefore, what I am saying is that we need to look at the whole area in context and look at how we meet the individual so that the individual is sure to get the right help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114123	Then we thank the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114141	First of all, I would like to thank the SF for raising the debate on AT. The aid area is one of the areas which has been considerably reduced over the last 12-15 years as a result of the municipal reform. As with other areas of disability, there has been a marked despecialisation to the detriment of citizens. Where the expertise prior to the municipal reform was concentrated around a dozen cross-cutting aid centres, the task was to a very large extent decentralised and, unfortunately, in the years since the reform, much of the highly specialised knowledge in this area has been lost. In this area too, it has been evident that the municipalities are too small to build and retain the necessary knowledge and skills for special counselling. There has been a large lack of specialist knowledge, and the much smaller volume of cases in the municipalities has in itself been a barrier to maintaining the necessary practical experience in this area. As many speakers have already pointed out, the organisations of disabled people are making massive criticisms of excessive processing times, of the many errors in the procedure, of difficulties in bringing aids across municipalities when moving, and we must note that this is not least due to the fact that the municipalities give priority to economic considerations rather than to professional assessments of citizens' needs. Individual assessments are ignored, and it seems all too often that citizens have to thank them with standardised aids, that is to say, the tools that the municipality's purchasing policy has now allowed to have on the shelves, rather than ensuring that citizens receive individually adapted aids. All in all, this suggests that there is an incredible lack of recognition and knowledge that there is also a need for highly specialised professional knowledge in the field of AT. If it is not present, so that the citizen gets the right remedy, it can result in serious discomfort. It can be in the form of wear injuries, it can be in the form of pressure wounds, and all in all it can mean a very serious deterioration in the health of citizens. It may well be that, with this procedure practice, the municipalities have a short-term saving. On the other hand, I have no doubt that, in the long term, it is not only to the detriment of our citizens, but also to the detriment of our economy, when we do not ensure that people with disabilities receive the right help in this area either. In the Enhedslisten we think it is very important that we think about the whole area of aid in the great fundamental reform that we expect there to be in the field of disability. There may be a tendency to think that compensatory aids are not part of the specialised area, but I am fortunately also hearing from the Minister's reply that this is not a view shared by the Minister, but that here too, of course, not all cases, far from all cases, but on a number of cases, there is a need for specialised knowledge. Exactly what such a solution should look like, we have chosen in the Enhedslisten to say that we are not making a final offer as long as we have the entire process of evaluation in progress. However, we believe it is absolutely certain that we need to ensure professional expertise, sufficient specialist knowledge in this area too, so that a completely different organisation of the area will be necessary, a change in the division of tasks between the various authorities will be necessary and a completely new way of financing the area will be needed. Finally, not least, as others have also mentioned, it will be important for us to tighten up on the whole of legal certainty so that we not only provide a different legal basis and other rules, but actually ensure that citizens also receive the support they are entitled to under the law. As I said, we expect that we will start negotiating solutions on the other side of the summer holiday. It is the handshake between the parties that has set the whole evaluation in motion, that is to say that we must start negotiations. And I welcome the fact that the Minister confirmed in his reply that the whole area of aid can also be included in the negotiations and that we therefore have recognition that there is also a need for specialised knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114649	Thank you. There are some brief comments, first from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114654	Thank you. I have this proposal for adoption in which the Enhedslisten is included, and I just need to know if Enhedslisten is completely satisfied with this text of adoption. Because I think there is a great deal missing in relation to imposing something on the government; it is being called on the government, and that is all very sweet. That was one question. The second point I would like to hear from the rapporteur concerns the fact that the Enhedslisten usually advocates changes in the area of disability, and now we have been waiting for a great many years. Jakob Silverhøj admits that there are real improvements in this area. In other words, we have had our battles on our own to be a support party, and now Enhedslisten is a support party, so you can sometimes get through some things; at least we have got it ourselves from the Danish People's Party, although it is far from good enough. So will the Enhedslisten be involved in drawing up a joint report in the Committee on Social Affairs where we can really write down what we want to be included in that debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114758	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114800	So, as to whether everything is included in the 150 words available in a proposal for adoption, I have to say: no, it is not; there was much more that could be said in that case. We don't really need that in this case... we may have in other cases... to require the government to do something very definite. In other words, in view of our desire to have a fundamental change that does not just take individual cases out, that is to say that we are basically looking at the need for a different organisation of the area, we have reached an agreement with the Social Democratic Party before they were in government, just before the Socialist People's Party and the Radical Left that we have to start a comprehensive reform in this area. So I guess until proven otherwise, you're in good shape. We are in the process of thorough preparations, and we have an undertaking from the Minister that when we reach the fourth quarter of this year, that is when the evaluation is ready and the summer break is over, we will start the concrete negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114903	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114905	That's a good thing. It's a commitment. I hope that all the parties in the Folketing will be invited to do so. But now we have a specific case... let me just take the example from yesterday; I know that Mr. Jakob Silverhøj has followed in the swim-girl case that you simply do not get compensation when you are mistreated in the social system today. So I would like to know exactly where the Enhedslisten could be involved in trying to draw up a joint report on this, that, of course, one cannot break the law freely without having consequences in the second part too; I am quite sure that Mr. Jakob Silverhøj knows what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114947	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423114950	Well, the Supreme Court ruling yesterday in this so-called swim-girl case is scandalous, at least in terms of content. I do not think we believe that what the courts decide is scandalous. I believe that we are bowing and complying with the rules, but that shows that there are problems with the legislation. And that is why there is such a need to tighten up legal certainty. The questioner will also remember that Enhedslisten has actually supported among others. proposals for suspensive effect and a legal certainty fund. I think we need to put this in place quickly. We would like to see it introduced as part of an overall agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115026	Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115030	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I very much agree that there are a great many things we need to have looked at when it comes to people with disabilities and mental disorders. Unfortunately, however, part of the evaluation does not include the AT area. And I must also say after what I have heard today that I am a little uncertain about what is actually agreed. What could, of course, have been really fine was if today we could have established some targets for what we really agree on. And there I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the Enhedslisten agree that we need to have a look at the delimitation circular so that we can stop the struggle between municipalities and regions, thereby making the citizen better and also the confession practice that is in the municipality's area, which not only prevents people from getting into education and jobs, but in fact also creates very large differences in what help they can get?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115126	I agree with the view that it can be difficult to be quite clear how far agreement is going. So, so far, we are going into these negotiations with the hope that we can solve a very wide range of the problems that exist. It can be discussed how much we solve in relation to the AT area, because it is not all about high specialisation; I have tried to illustrate that it does so in a great many cases. I fully agree that the demarcation circular contains many problems, and it is very important that we resolve the problems that are delineated in relation to aids in our health services and over in the social and employment sectors, so as not to forget that when the Minister is also called up. And then we are fully committed to resolving the problems that arise, among other things. together with the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115222	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115226	Yes, but it is also very difficult to solve such major and pervasive problems. But my wish with this question debate today was, in fact, to highlight some rather important issues, which in fact mean that people with disabilities do not get into education, do not get into jobs, have a worse life. There I could just really have wished that together we could have established some lines of sight for what we want to do about: what is our analysis, and are we ready to look at the solutions together? So I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115303	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115307	After all, it is difficult to establish guidelines in a question debate and in a short text for adoption on everything we want. However, I fully agree with the aim and would like to give an undertaking that the Enhedslisten is prepared for us to have looked through the whole of the AT area so that we do not only delineate it to the highly specialised, but are looking at: where are the demarcation problems, where are there problems in the legislation so that the citizens do not get the tools they need? We are very happy to give a commitment to participate in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115335	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur I see is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115356	Soon, in this Chamber, we will have to take a position on a citizens' proposal on precisely the area of disability. It is about removing the handicap area from the municipalities. I support this, and it supports New Citizens, firstly because today disabled people and their relatives find that in far too many cases the municipalities administer illegally, so that people with disabilities do not get the help they are entitled to. Almost half of all cases are subject to errors. 42 per cent. of the cases which end up in the Ankestyrelsen are reversed or sent back to the municipality for new treatment. In addition, processing times are very long. Time limits are routinely exceeded. And people with disabilities and their relatives tell me over and over again about almost absurd decisions suggesting widespread cash thinking in the municipalities. The disabled area came under the municipalities in 2007 in connection with the municipal reform, and we can see today that it was a mistake. The municipalities simply do not manage the task. People with disabilities and their families become losers, and as a society we cannot implicitly accept that. Something has to be done. The system needs to be broken down, and something new needs to be built up. I and New Citizens will give all people with disabilities a uniform treatment. The conditions governing support and assistance must be the same for people with disabilities, whether you live in Gedser or in Skagen. And if you move across a municipality border, you have to be able to take your help with you and not start again by applying again in a new municipality. To compensate for the laxity and maladministration of the municipalities, we will set up a national professional council which will be responsible for providing assistance and services to people with disabilities. Benefits and aid are financed by the State and are therefore taken away from the municipal cash-flow thinking. The Council establishes itself with teams across the country so that there is never far to the nearest. Under the National Professional Council we will employ teams of professionals to meet and assess people with disabilities as the whole people they are, where all aspects of their disability and situation are involved in relation to both relatives, friends, housing situation, disability, jobs, education, etc. The same team follows the individual to the full, provides the necessary help and regularly follows up to adjust the help as needed. So we must stop having a sea of municipal case officers where one hand does not know what the other does. Each team should be self-organising and autonomous under the responsibility of the law and coordination of the national council. Isolatedly, a new system based on a stronger professionalism in the case will become more expensive, create fewer changes in the appeal board and remove the municipalities' ability to speculate on giving disabled people less than they are entitled to. Everything else equal will lead to more people getting more faster. But there is also another side to the coin where more simple rules and correct and faster decisions will help the individual with disabilities to speed up clarification and, in many cases, a greater degree of self-sufficiency. The family's financial loss in terms of lost earnings, when the municipality withdraws the offer of assistance, where the relatives have to care for the disabled family members themselves for long periods of time, also causes a socio-economic loss and reduces income from taxes and charges. Overall, I am not actually convinced that it will be more expensive for society to create a better system to provide just the right help for people with disabilities. It may end up with a win-win, where both the individual with disabilities, the relatives and the rest of society get something good out of it. At any rate, concrete action is needed in the field of disability and in order to find a solution that ensures legal certainty that ensures families and that they can feel secure by getting the help they need so much. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115829	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115833	Thanks to New Citizens for their speech. We agree on many things, but I think that there may well be a challenge in the context of the economic policy of New Citizens. As I understand it, more than 100 billion will be given. kr. in tax relief, but we should of course have a welfare society where there should be precisely the means to provide help to people with disabilities and others who need help. So how will it be put into practice if it is the case that the economic policy of the new citizens is implemented? Will there not be anything missing in relation to helping some of the most vulnerable and some of the most vulnerable, including people with disabilities? Will there be any money?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423115924	Thank you very much, and thank you for the question. The Danish People's Party and New Citizens can agree on a great many things, but on economic policy there is clear and clear difference, because the Danish People's Party has a social democratic economic policy, and New Citizens have a bourgeois economic policy. This is basically about ensuring that the money goes to the right places, and at this point we can find a lot of places. I am quite sure that, for example, the Danish People's Party also agrees with us that these are just over 33 billion. kr. We could use better if we failed non-Western immigration every year. And there are many examples of how the public sector can also be reduced and so secure growth and prosperity. And with our economic policy, Denmark will generally grow and become richer, and of course there must be money to ensure some of the most vulnerable in our society the right help. That's exactly what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120020	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120021	Yes, and we are also talking about how we can ensure that people with disabilities receive aids, even before they start their work, and that will be where New Citizens will close down the job centres in relation to that part. However, my concern is precisely with economic policy in order to ensure that there are resources for proper welfare. And in relation to the economic policy of the new citizens, I can only say that there are several experts who have been out to say that there is a desire to create more inequality, and this is of course a cause of concern to ensure that a proper welfare society is established.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120055	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120056	It's easy to save money in the public sector, okay? And yes, it may well be that there will be more inequality, we acknowledge that in a way, and we are not so afraid of that either, because it depends, of course, on how you define and look at inequality, because it does not necessarily have to be a bad thing. If the neighbor gets richer, it's not necessarily the case that I get poorer, but the inequality is increasing. So again, there is a difference between the Danish People's Party and New Citizens. The Danish People's Party has a socialist economic policy, while New Citizens have a bourgeois economic policy. But, of course, this is one of the things that has to be affordable. And if you implement the model that we have here, you will also have much better control of what the money is going to do, rather than being channelled into the municipalities, as is happening today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120138	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And that means that we are through the rapporteur's round and then we need a number of ministers. First, it's the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120201	Thank you for that, President. And I'm picking up on behalf of the government and all three of us. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs and signing up for the very good debate we have had today. I have to say that it is an expression of a huge commitment that warms my heart, and I am sure it does so also in those people who come with us out there and who, even hopefully, are happy, depend on us having the strong welfare society we have, but who are also some of those who feel on their own body when there are some gaps and some things that do not work. This has been a very good debate and I would also like to say that it is a debate in which we have come very far. I think one of you, too, was kind enough to acknowledge that you may not be able to solve all the problems in all areas with a snap. I would like to confirm this, and these are also complex issues that we are dealing with, and therefore there are several different tracks that are interesting to bear in mind when thinking about solutions. But most of all, I am here to welcome the fact that I see that we have a common ambition as a whole Parliament here, namely that we believe that it should be possible for people with disabilities to live good lives with a high quality of life, that young people with disabilities should be able to get an education and move forward in employment, and that people with disabilities should generally be able to be part of our community, both in the labour market and also in leisure life. Then I will make two slogans or headlines which also fit the debate here today. One of them was from my own speech and now you can quickly sound self-fat by standing and quoting yourself, but so: I have a basic belief that no one can do anything, but everyone can do something, and people must have the opportunity to contribute. The second thing that goes on again, and which is something that we also basically believe in from the government, is the belief that investing in people pays off. These are some basic things in this discussion. Then I would just like to say that, after the debate here, I can see that there is a broad consensus in the Danish Parliament that these are some issues that we need to discuss further. I have heard nothing else, and I will therefore also have the whole Parliament in my back when I raise the subject of the partnership for legal certainty and trust in the field of disability in relation to the provision of AT under the Service Act. The Minister for Employment and Health himself has had the opportunity to be up here and tell about the things that are happening on their resort in this context, and it is good to know that this is a job where the Folketing has such a clear call to the government, and we look forward to continuing that work. I said that we have discussed many things, and so have we. We have probably also discussed some things that are slightly outside the narrow subject itself. the question. But I really believe that Mrs Kirsten Normann and Mr Andersen too. Jakob Silverhøj both addressed indirectly in relation to the whole question of whether one can see the discussion about AT detached from the whole discussion about quality and structure in the specialized social field. And that's really what I'm hearing, sir. Henrik Vinther, who is no longer here, realizes that it is also about management, that it is also about education, that it is also about organisation, and that it is also about the coherence of the whole thing. Therefore: When, under the framework of the evaluation of the specialized social area, we have made, for the first time, these detailed target group descriptions, where we have identified the needs of the target groups at different levels of specialisation, then aids are also part of it. And we can't think it detached. In other words, man is a whole, and our service law is also trying to take that into account, because you have to make the individual assessment all around the citizen. So I look forward to having the discussion as well. We will then also be discussing this on a regular basis, and it is also possible to listen to the many speeches made by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, many different issues in the field of disability. And in relation to any of that, no matter how much we're on the ball in here, I was just about to say, "be developments out there that make problems arise, technological development when it comes to aids, as an example. And that is why, of course, it is good that there is this interest here. I hope that remains the case. So thank you for a very, very committed debate and a great deal of attention to an issue which is certainly also of great concern to the government. And I will look forward to the further discussions and debates that I am quite sure we will have on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120647	Thank you. First of all, a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120651	We are going to have more debates in this area, but we are looking forward to the Minister convening all the parties of the Folketing for negotiations. My concern is simply the time perspective, because I believe that action is needed now and that something can easily be done now, for example. It is precisely in relation to the problem of legal certainty. My concern is that you keep pushing this out and then you don't get to deal with it. So I'd like to hear a little bit about the time perspective. Now the Minister says that the Minister will convene a meeting after the summer break. Well, that's a broad concept. Can the Minister come a little closer than that? When does the Minister intend to have an agreement on reform in this area? Well, what's the time perspective? When we simply get over a choice again before we see any concrete action in this area? Now the President gets up, so I sit down.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120755	Thank you. And then we get an answer from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120757	Well, I have to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, whom I know only as extremely involved in this discussion, that it is wrong to draw a picture of nothing happening. For example: The discussion about both the service level, but indeed the processing times are very closely linked to what an economy the municipalities have, and what is the bottom we put under our local welfare. And here, from the outset, this government has secured both the economic agreements we have concluded with the municipalities so far, a total increase of over 3 billion. kr. to ensure that there is a bottom under our welfare out there for the benefit of also the specialized social area, which is one of the areas that has pressed the municipalities. So this drawing of a picture that nothing has happened is simply not right, because something very fundamental has happened, namely that you have a government that insists on holding hands under our local welfare, so there is a bottom. And I look forward very much to the Danish People's Party being given the opportunity to vote in favour of a welfare law which also commits a future government if the government should change. After all, that was missing when the Danish People's Party last held a government in power.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120903	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120905	Now the Danish People's Party has never gone to negotiations with a desire for minus growth at all, so if you think back to what should be of public growth, then I think we were a little higher in relation to the Social Democratic Party. What I mean, Minister, is that the citizens cannot feel it. In other words, they can see now that in some of the municipalities' austerity proposals, the 95th paragraph of the BPA scheme. In fact, 3 out of date, i.e. quality standards and service levels, do not follow what the Minister says from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120943	Thank you. Then it's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423120945	Now it should not be a long historical discussion, but the Danish People's Party held a government in power, where one of the government parties would have minus growth in public consumption, another would have zero growth, and the discussions were ongoing. In other words, we have set in motion an historically large mapping of the specialized social area, because we want to strengthen this area structurally and address the unresolved problems we have seen since the structural reform; the increasing despecialisation which so many are concerned is quite great. And under the auspices of this, there are quite a lot of discussions that I will look forward to having with the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121020	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121022	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. One of the things that I think the government has looked up to and that I think it is right to look up to is debureaucratisation. It makes so much sense to begin to tackle some of the bureaucratic rules that we can all see and which are paradoxes in our everyday lives, and in particular it makes sense to tackle the debureaucratisation where the citizens feel it in practice, such as in the United Kingdom. Daniel, whom I have already presented to the Minister: the paradox that we are getting no to the right solution and know that we can go to becoming a real, really expensive citizen in the longer term. Will the Minister help us to get the bureaucracy broken down in precisely these areas, so that the resort areas will have to work together on the right solution, and so that we also recognise the dynamic effects associated with doing the right thing at the right time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121127	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121128	The rapporteur knows that. This is an area in which what can act on paper as a simple and debureaucratic exercise actually requires quite a large amount of funding, and that is also part of the discussion that we must have with each other. You can have many good intentions, but you must also have the funding, at least in cases where it requires funding. So I am very, very much in favour of us having to act in all the places where we can find some sort of grip that debureaucratises, which makes the case simpler for the municipalities and, most importantly, makes everyday life easier for the citizens; where we can ensure greater security in relation to the aid granted, can do away with places where people fall between chairs or end up as throwing balls. It is just not quite easy, and I think we all know that, and that is why I welcome the commitment from here, and the discussion on debureaucratisation is clearly a headline that I can only welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121231	Kirsten Normann Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121233	It is also expensive to make decent roads and bike paths, but it prevents accidents and expensive patients in health care and in the minister's own area, and that is what this is all about: trying to get ahead of the problem and solve it before you actually end up being an expensive citizen. In other words, the citizens' proposal to move the area from municipalities to regions is basically about doing the right thing at the right time and ensuring specialists where specialists are needed. That is why it is also a matter of concern to a great many citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121308	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121309	The whole discussion on the structure in this area, which is also what we need to have following the evaluation of the specialized social area, where we hope to have something similar to a special plan that we know in the field of health, with deep respect for the differences in the health and social sphere, and the fact that it is the whole life of the citizens that has to be lived, and that everyday life when we talk about social matters, is an extremely important discussion. I recognize perfectly well the picture that sometimes it is unfortunate that something goes wrong and is humanly expensive, but also ends up being socio-economicly expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121342	Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121348	Thank you. Thank you for this debate we have had today. I would say that I think it is really nice to hear the positive statements made by the government in agreeing that there is something here that we are simply not doing well enough. I have also heard both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Employment recognise that there are things that we need to have looked at in relation to the fact that we will not have any further negative consequences from a decision that goes in the way of caring for your education or a job. It can also have a negative effect on your health. I still need clarification from the Minister for Social Affairs in relation to the municipal lottery. The great difference in the municipalities in relation to the means by which the citizen concerned can be granted, including also the waiting times. There I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that those assessments are based on professional knowledge or whether it is from an economic point of view and is it really good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121454	Well, in fact, I think I have tried to answer this by saying that we have a municipal autonomy and that there is a possibility of setting different levels of service in our municipalities. These are indicative service levels. And it is also important to say that this is indeed an expression of the priorities of the individual municipal council. One can then have a discussion on local issues, i.e. whether one thinks that these are the right priorities, but that does not mean that matters in this area should not be assessed on the basis of a concrete and individual assessment, and that is why they are also indicative service levels. I believe that there is a problem if the differences between municipalities become too large, and that is why I am also concerned about this. But it is quite factual in this that there can be municipal differences within the legislation, and it is also part of local democracy that there is discussion about whether you think you have the right balance in relation to your municipal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121558	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121559	Well, that leaves a huge paradox. Because when we know that there are huge differences as to whether we have to wait for three weeks or six months at least to get the aid that is needed, it stands in the way of continuing that life. It can stand in the way of parents getting their sleep at night; it can stand in the way of getting into education or getting into employment. And that is what we like to agree on here, namely to say that there are a number of dynamic effects of people getting their aids at the right time. So there's a paradox here. I hope that we will be able to come closer to that when we enter the negotiations. I just want to make it clear that this is what the SF is bringing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121639	The minister with an answer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121641	Well, I certainly think that we should have the ambition to do so in this area, and that there is something fundamental structural about ensuring that there is the right knowledge so that we can make the right assessment and make the right decision at all and, incidentally, make the first time. That is what I think should be what we are all striving for, in other words, that the municipalities are able to make the right assessment, which is right for the specific citizens in the right case for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121715	Then it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121718	Thank you for the floor, President. In Odense Municipality we have had constant budget overruns throughout the specialized social area, and in this connection we called this task force under the Danish Social Security Authority. I think it is really a pity that we are seeing that there is so much difference in the municipalities, among other things. at these processing times in e.g. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. That is exactly what we are actually discussing here today, i.e. whether the individual municipality is calling for help from national politics in here, so my question is really quite simple: how will the Minister ensure that more municipalities both recognise that they have a challenge and dare to cry out for help from in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121805	Thank you. This is, of course, an example of how you can get help in your task forces case. I believe that the discussion that will take place when we talk about this more structuralally in the context of the evaluation of the specialized social area is also very much about whether you have the right professional knowledge to make the right individual assessment, in relation to what help it is that needs to be given and whether, overall, as a society, we have the right offers. It is both offers in a classical sense, but it is also the cadastral offers that are about having some professional environments that ensure that we have knowledge at a high enough professional level, which one should then be able to draw on, and then, as a municipality, one must also know where one's own competences stop and end. So it is a discussion that goes beyond where the task force can move out. It is a more structural discussion which is linked to the evaluation of the specialized social area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121902	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121904	I'm just trying to rephrase the question. What I really just mean by that is that we have these challenges and we have this community lottery. There are just some municipalities that obviously can't figure out how to carry out this task, and that's really too bad, especially because I have the belief that the municipalities want to. After all, we agree, the Social Democrats and the Left, that we must also pay tribute to municipal autonomy and that there must be room for diversity. However, on the previous question I put to the Minister, the Minister mentioned precisely this point of uniformity, and I did not get a very clear answer as to how we can then ensure that there is both uniformity, that there is a proper service and that there is a quality where legal certainty is in place, while there must be room for diversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121940	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423121941	But I also think it's a little too square to put it up like that and say that some municipalities can't do this. So, there will certainly be quite a lot of cases in very many municipalities or not very many municipalities, but all municipalities, because we have 98 of them, and that is certain until someone proposes a new structure. But quite a lot of decisions are taken and also in quite difficult, complex cases every day, and it is true that we can see that there are some municipalities that have problems when things are brought to justice in the Ankestyrelsen. We are also trying to get a better insight into how many cases they have in everything, in order to get more clarity about what it says about a general problem in the municipality, and of course we need to be concerned about it, but I also think that we need the structural discussion about whether we have the right layout of the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423122022	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, and since I do not see that anyone else has asked to speak, the debate has ended. Well, I understand that Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk would like to round off the question debate, and she is very welcome to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423122052	Thank you. I would like to thank all those who have taken part in this debate. I think it's incredibly important. I would also like to say a great deal of thanks to the three ministers for their participation and, in fact, for having listened with such great ears as have been listened to today, because this is an area that I believe we must have dealt with together. This is not something we can only solve in one sector. As I have said before, I see that the social area is a little the weak link here, because it is the granting area, and that is where the economy can be squeezed and pressed. We know that from the municipalities, and I myself have been sitting there when I was chairing the Social Committee in a municipality. It can be really, really hard to make those long-term investments when you have to deliver on the balance in the municipality every year, and when you really have to deliver on some positive derived effects somewhere else. So there is a great deal to be done, and today, in connection with today's debate, I have tried to make some impact points where we believe that we can actually do something now. We think it is important to have a look at the fact that this is actually an area in which we can go in and correct some things and that it would actually be beneficial to the economy. It is clear that this will also be part of what we want to be concerned about when we are going to talk about economic issues, because we can see that there are positive effects of having proper help at the right time and that, in reality, there are very negative consequences when the opposite happens. I also said earlier that I was pleased to hear that the Minister for Health would look further at the demarcation circular and what lies in it and possibly how we can solve it together. In fact, I am also glad to hear that the Minister for Employment also has it as a focus.I had also noticed that before today I had to get more people with disabilities in jobs. I think that is incredibly important. There are very many people who can contribute more and who will contribute more and who are actually very frustrated that they are forced to sit at home. We can do something about this by creating a more flexible system of transitions and in fact also trying to open up the floodgates between the silos. It is important as a human being that, even if you have landed in life with a disability, you may be allowed to contribute, that you may be allowed to take an education, that you may also be allowed to live an active life. We should also bear in mind that it is not just a socio-economic issue, but that it actually has a very great human significance. It may well be that I am going to discuss it a little further with the Minister for Social Affairs in relation to the municipal lottery, but it may also be that we need to take a greater part in the negotiations that are coming in relation to what challenges we think there are and how far we can reach in relation to solutions, but I think it is really important that it should be based on professional knowledge and so it cannot vary according to which municipality you are in. It must be a professional knowledge behind it. We also think it is important to look further at confession practices in the municipalities, and I have also said so. So decisions must not be taken, so they are so short-sighted that they prevent young people from taking up training and prevent adults from doing their job or getting into work. It could also be exciting to work with that solution of pre-financing. And in reality it will not be a further economic pressure, because that appropriation will only come into effect if you have a job, but it will only make it much easier for employers and, in fact, the individual to assess whether this can be an employment that can be positive for both parties. It is clear that the many challenges that can be and the many bumps in life that you can experience when you have a disability are not something that we solve in one day, and neither do we with the evaluation of the specialized social area, but I think it is an ambitious project and I am quite ready to tackle with the other parties, and I am also delighted that we can bring the aid area into this. Now, at least, it has also been made very clear what the SF enters into the negotiations with and that we are in fact also working on how we can link it together in the various sectors. Of course, this is something that needs to be taken into consideration. We simply can't solve it all at once. But I think there are some very concrete solutions that mean that we can start to turn things around right now, and that we can now point out that, as a human being in this society, we must also be able to participate on a fairly equal footing with the rest of us who do not have a disability. Thank you for today's debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423122554	Then we thank the rapporteur for the questions, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday 27 April 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423122638	The debate is open. Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423122646	With the motion for a resolution here, the proposers want to oblige the government to submit a draft law which means that men are treated as women in relation to offers under Article 109 of the Services Act. Specifically, the proposers want the target group of section 109 to be extended so that it applies to all adults who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence or have had a similar crisis, and to their potential children, and therefore not only to women, as is the case today. I welcome the great interest in the area of violence, and I agree that there must be help for all who are exposed to violence in close relationships, including men and their children. It should be absolutely fundamental that all people should be able to live a life without violence. Therefore, it is also crucial that you can get help if you are in a violent relationship. Having said that, the government cannot support the concrete proposal. In contrast to women's crisis centres, according to Section 110 of the Service Act, boforms are aimed at a different and wider target group than men exposed to violence in close relationships, and today there is no knowledge of how many men exposed to violence are on a section 110 offer. The difference in the target group of women's crisis centres and section 110 offers means that there is a need to strengthen the knowledge base of men exposed to violence before we resort to any change in the law. That is why, as recently as November, as a central part of the agreement on the mobilisation of the reserve for social, health and labour market measures for 2021-2024, we have also allocated funds to carry out in 2021 a study of men at men's crisis centres and Article 110 offers. This is precisely what we did in order to have a solid basis for a political debate on the equality of men and women exposed to violence. The Danish People's Party knows this, which is part of the agreement and which therefore supported the provision of the necessary knowledge, while New Citizens, as you know, are outside the agreement. As part of the agreement, during a two-year trial period in 2022 and 2023, psychological assistance shall also be offered to the target group and their accompanying children, as well as the psychological assistance to which women and children are entitled in women's crisis centres. In this context, it is worth noting that in the past there has also been an experimental scheme of psychological assistance for women in the women's crisis centres which preceded the general introduction of the right to psychological assistance in the women's crisis centres. A thorough study and experience of psychological assistance to men exposed to violence are necessary first steps, which we believe there is good reason to wait for the results before taking a position on any legislative change in this area. We simply do not have knowledge of the size and needs of the target group today, and that is a prerequisite if we are to be able to count on the additional costs that will be associated with a change of law, which neither the Danish People's Party nor the New Citizens in any case provide funding for in the proposal. For this reason too, the government cannot support the proposal. This does not mean that in the meantime the government is not working to strengthen the fight against violence in close relations, because priority remains to be given to that effort. That is why I am so pleased that the government, together with a number of parties, has managed to lift the area of violence significantly. With the 2020 Finance Act, there was support for prioritising a major boost in the field of violence. The agreement has, among other things, been signed. Priority was given to early action against violence. We've set aside $48 million. kr. to strengthen out-patient violence counselling, which ensures the dissemination and sustainable running of out-patient services. Outpatient services are essential for the cessation of violence at an earlier stage and for moving to a male crisis centre or a women's crisis centre. In the strengthened outpatient effort there is assistance for women, men, children and the perpetrators of violence. With the agreement on the reserve for 2021-2024, the early preventative deployment of violence in close relations was also strengthened. As part of an overall initiative, a previously tested intervention model is further developed. The model is a collaboration between a counselling offer, the municipality and the police, which is aimed at both the perpetrators and the perpetrators of violence. Further development of the model will help in the provision of early and preventive outpatient advice to perpetrators. With an early effort, we can take action before the violence develops and passes on to the children. As an essential part of the Agreement on the Reserve for 2021-2024, the National Unit against Violence Lev Without Violence was also extended to mid-2024. Lives Without Violence drives among others. the national hotline, which may be called by both perpetrators, perpetrators and relatives. In other words, both with the 2020 Finance Act and the Agreement on the Reserve for 2021-2024, the Government has given a very high priority to the fight against violence and has therefore, together with the other parties in the Folketing, just taken responsibility for moving in the right direction in the field of violence. So when New Citizens, who, as you know, are outside the agreements and hence the financing of the significant increases in the field of violence, are unable to give funding to their proposals, it is rather like a free round. And when the proposers of the Danish People's Party both know the background and are part of the agreement on the investigation of men exposed to violence, among other things. It is surprising that we know very little about both the scale and the need that they do not at the same time consider funding. Measures in the 2020 Finance Act and the Reserve for 2021-2024 will make a major difference for both women, men and children. We also have to deal with the fact that there is a gender battle when it comes to violence in close relationships. Women fill more in that violence statistics. Talks about violence in close relationships show that more women are exposed to physical partner violence and that it is most often women who experience the most serious violence. Unfortunately, women also fill much more in the statistics on partner killings. The government acknowledges that too many men are also subjected to violence in close relationships, and therefore men with violence are not forgotten in the government's efforts in this area either. In addition to the initiatives of the 2020 Finance Act and the Reserve for 2021-2024, the Government, together with the parties of the Folketing in the context of the Corona crisis, has allocated funds for advice and temporary emergency places in man crisis centres. As I have said, the government agrees with the proposers that the fight against violence in close relations should include both women and men at risk of violence, but that the proposal should be rejected. We need more knowledge about the target group of men exposed to violence who are on a section 110 offer. After all, the Danish People's Party was included in the agreement on this, since in November all the parties of the Danish Parliament, except New Citizens, set aside funds for a thorough study and experience of psychological assistance for men who were exposed to violence. A solid knowledge base is a prerequisite before we issue a new bill that we do not have enough knowledge of, and therefore I think it is still wise to do things in the right order and await the results. When the results of the study and experience with the experimental scheme are available at the end of 2023, I am prepared to convene discussions on gender equality in this area. At the same time, I expect the authors of the motion to point out the necessary funding for gender equality, which is not indicated in the motions for resolutions here. In the meantime, the government will continue to work for a strengthened response to violence in close relationships across the board, including focusing on how we can better prevent the need for accommodation at shelters for both men and women. With that I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123438	There are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123441	Thank you. In other words, equality is also about giving equal opportunities. And yes, we are in that agreement and we, together with the Left, fought through an experimental scheme because we had previously witnessed the government's tabling a bill which, in turn, was not equal in this area, but where women and their children would be offered psychological assistance, but not men. Unfortunately, we can see that in this area too. When we look at section 109 of the Service Act, it says that the municipal council must offer temporary residence in housing forms to women who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence or similar crises in relation to family and social relationships. Women may be accompanied by children and they receive care support during their stay. What we are asking for is simply to align that paragraph, that is to say, simply to ensure that you have equal opportunities for help regardless of gender. We don't want this to be a sex fight. Unfortunately, we often see that in this area, but it is about equal opportunities for help and support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123546	Thank you. Well, the draft law mentioned by the rapporteur, which was about introducing the right to psychological assistance at the women's crisis centres, came precisely on the back of an experimental scheme with that very thing. Well, that's the parallelity that's in this. So I'm also thinking that that's what got the Danish People's Party to support the agreement we made, about the reserve, where we should have both a cover, so we get more knowledge about what the extent of violence committed men on the § 10 offers is • that knowledge we do not have today but where we can also have an experimental scheme with psychological help, just as we had an experimental scheme before we legalized the right to psychological assistance for women.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123626	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123627	This is also about attitudes. So, do you have the attitude that you should have equal opportunities regardless of whether you are a man or a woman? That is what must be done, and it is simply our position in the Danish People's Party. As far as experimental schemes are concerned, it was the compromise that we could get through because we did not want to create a permanent psychological system in relation to men, but only for women. I mean, am I just supposed to understand that the attitude of the government is that because of lack of knowledge, there will be no equal opportunities for the sexes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123702	Both men and women and children need help from society and the community if they experience violence in close relationships. It is a disgusting form of violence because it takes place where one should be most secure, namely in one's home, and because it is exercised by the person one should be most comfortable with, namely his partner or, in the case of a child, that one can see the violence being carried out by one parent or between parents. So, of course, we need help for men, children and women alike. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123729	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123732	Thank you. Blah blah blah blah so the Minister makes a very, very long talk about absolutely nothing, because this is very, very simple in: Is the Minister in favour of equality between women and men? Does the Minister consider that it is really just as bad to be subjected to violence, mentally or physically, for men as well as for women? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123756-2	It was probably a rather nonchalant approach to the area of violence that this government, together with its financial parties, has given a historic boost, while the former bourgeois government was not so busy doing so when it was in power. If this leads the New Citizens' rapporteur to say 'blah blah blah blah', I do not want to think about what it says about the women and children and men sitting in the women's crisis centres and the men's crisis centres out there. I'm just a little shaken up. That the fact that we have stepped up our efforts at crisis centres with several crisis centres and with psychological help, that we have kept our hands on both battered men and battered women with emergency places, that we have secured money for the development of the integration model, that we have secured permanent funds for the outpatient services, that we have secured money to extend the outpatient services that benefit women, men for the benefit of children who are victims of violence, and that the perpetrators are also benefiting, and we have also ensured that the relatives still have a place to turn, can be reduced to blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah b blah blah blah blah blah bhu.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123900	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123901	The minister is not answering the question. But it's kind of classic. And by the way, I don't understand that, so I know it's the record that the minister puts on every time about the former bourgeois government. We weren't part of that. We didn't sit in the Folketing at the time, if only the minister had to be reminded of it. The Minister did not answer the question: does the Minister think that it is equally bad if men are subjected to violence, as if women are subjected to violence, and thus that it is of course quite natural that Article 109 applies to both sexes? Does the Minister think that violence is really just as bad, regardless of the gender involved? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423123932	It is because you do not want to hear what the Minister is saying. I even think I have said it almost literally twice, and now I can say it a third time: men who are victims of violence, women who are victims of violence, children who are victims of violence must do so from the municipality, who must deal with the problem and who have a duty of notification. There is also a duty to inform women's crisis centres and men's crisis centres in relation to children, and the people who are victims of violence must be dealt with. And so do we as a society. Now we have set in motion an experimental scheme of psychological assistance for men and get identified how large the target group of men on section 110 offers are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124006	Then it's Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124008	Thank you very much. It was a struggle to get the experimental scheme started, where men can also be offered 10 hours of psychological assistance. And on a number of occasions, when we had the debate, I hear the Minister say that there are differences between the sexes because women are subjected to more violence. We think this is a strange approach to it, because violence is violence, violence is intimidating, violence is humiliating, violence is devastating. I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister think that there is equality in this area? I mean, when a man seeks out help and a woman seeks out help, is there equality in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124057	Violence is violence, says the rapporteur, and that is true. At the same time, however, I assume that the rapporteur also recognises that when we look at the knowledge we have about violence in close relationships, the State Institute for Public Health last published a very comprehensive report for which it is now almost three years ago that the proportion of women who have been subjected to partner violence is greater and that the typically harsher violence that women are exposed to in close relationships than men. We can see that more women end up being killed by their partner. That is to say, there is a gender battle when it comes to violence in our society. I also hope that the rapporteur of the Left will acknowledge this. But that does not mean that we do not think that we should have a society in which everyone can live without violence, both women and men, or that we do not think that there should be help for both women and men and, incidentally, children who grow up in homes where there is violence. It's very devastating for children. We know that this is part of what is also inherited, where children who grow up with violence often end up themselves as perpetrators of violence in their adult lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124157	Fatma Øktem, go ahead. I think the microphone turns on automatically. You don't have to press it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124206	Well, okay, but then I learned it today. Thank you. I do not think I was given an answer to my question as to whether there is equality in this area. I would really just like to hear what the government and the Minister's position on this is, because it means a great deal to our future work whether or not there is gender equality here. Of course we know that there can be a difference between violence. In fact, there can be not only between the sexes, but also between individuals. So my question is again: does the Minister believe that there is equality in the aid we provide solely on the basis of gender?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124247	Well, the rapporteur is well aware of the provisions of the Services Act. I do not need to read that to the rapporteur. And we have had that discussion quite many times. I think it is very positive that we are now getting the psychological assistance scheme for men, and that we are also able to identify what the number of men affected by violence seeking section 110 offers is, and on the basis of this we can also have a more substantial discussion on how best to ensure that both men, women and children living with domestic violence receive the right help. There is no doubt that if you are violent, you need help. Then the community has to be there for one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124320	There are no more brief comments. That is why we now thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. First of all, it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124344	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party and New Citizens for once again raising a theme that is central to Social Democracy. Living in a violent relationship causes scars on both body and soul. It is about both physical, psychological, sexual and economic violence, and as a society we cannot accept it. Every year, thousands of people in Denmark are subjected to partner violence, both women and men. That is why I very much agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that the fight against violence in close relations must include both women exposed to violence and men exposed to violence. It is important to remember that partner violence can take many forms. And there is a difference between the violence that women and men are subjected to. The study by the State Institute for Public Health, to which the proposers themselves refer, shows this. The study also points out that it is most often women who experience the most serious form of violence, which I mention just a few of the examples, and they seem violent, but violence is violent: being thrown down from stairs, experiencing strangulation attempts, being burned with cigarettes, being forced into intercourse, having his keys taken away, his mobile phone and access to his financial resources. And sometimes, as the Minister also says, we have seen that violence can result in death. Psychic violence also has serious consequences in terms of violence. The study shows that men are more subjected to psychological violence than to physical violence. It may be a matter of being demeaned, humiliated or offended, and sometimes violence may even have the character of not having the opportunity to see your children. Violence in close relationships can thus take very many different forms, and the nature of violence is different for men and for women, and we should also bear that in mind when we look at the diversity of the problems. In relation to both motions for resolutions, it is important to point out that, unlike the women's crisis centres, the settlements in section 110 of the Services Act are aimed at a different and wider target group than men exposed to violence in close relationships. And today there is no knowledge of how many men are exposed to violence on a section 110 offer. For the listeners, I can perhaps explain and say that this is about the fact that if you are enrolled in section 110 offers, you can be so for various reasons. So when we have a discussion in the general public, there is a difference between whether you are enrolled in a women's crisis centre or at a male crisis centre, i.e. a difference between the paragraphs, and it also has a bearing on how to deal with it later. That is why we are also talking today about becoming wiser about the violence that is involved in one offer and another, so that we can know the extent of the problem in this way, and then we await the results that enable us to decide what kind of changes we have to make. That is also why we do not support the proposal today, but we appreciate the fact that both the New Civil and the Danish People's Party are also involved in raising the debate on the area of violence. It is very, very important that we spread that discussion out so that we also have the environment included.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124727	Thank you. First of all, there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124732	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I fully recognise that violence has many forms, that violence has many forms of psychological violence, physical violence, economic violence, that is, many forms and types of violence. But this is actually about the fact that, according to the statistics, we have approx. 39,000 women exposed to violence and 18,000 men. It is a question of putting the paragraphs of the Services Act on an equal footing, so that you can have equal opportunities for help, and I hear the Socialist rapporteur say that you will not. You don't want to sign men into section 109 of the Service Act. It's all about equal opportunities, no matter what kind of violence. Will the rapporteur elaborate on the reasons why equal opportunities are not to be offered regardless of gender?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124826	What is central when you look at the violence that a man is experiencing, or that a woman is experiencing, or that the child who grows up in the home is experiencing, it is important to look at what kind of violence it is, and we do not know that violence. We can see that during the corona crisis, for example, Danner has. The report states that the nature of violence has been much more wide-ranging and that many different types have been affected. So we need to figure out what the nature of the different forms is. So it is not about not wanting to equate it; it is about making decisions on a proper basis. For the Social Democratic Party, it is important that the effort that a problem requires be given. That is what I said in the rapporteur's speech, and I will repeat that because that is what our policy is: that we should look at what violence is being carried out and then, of course, give the help that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124927	Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423124929	I simply do not understand the premise mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur. Well, the fact is that we know today that approx. 38,000 women and 18,000 men are subjected to violence. At the same time, we know today that social democracy will not equate legislation with ensuring equal opportunities for both sexes. So, for those who need to attend a women's crisis center, it is legal in law, and it is not for men, in section 109 of the Service Act. We don't need any more knowledge about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125005	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125006	I can repeat that. And it may be that it gets a little long-haired, or whatever you can say for those who belong out there. In other words, one can repeat one point of view and say that we do not want equality, but what we say from the Social Democrats is that the nature of violence must be known. In other words, when we, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, have allocated funds to carry out a study to look at the violence at the men's crisis centres and at section 110 offers, we do believe that it makes sense to do so on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125040	Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125042	Thank you. I just have to hear: why is it in these times of equality that the Social Democracy and the Government do not want to equate men with women when they talk so much about women being equal to men? Why do men not want to be guaranteed what women have when they talk so much about equality? Honestly, that's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125108	When men experience violence, when women experience violence, when children grow up in a home where there is violence, society must act. Then we have to make offers, then we have to look at it. In other words, the nature of the violence must be remedied. It's not fair to be in a relationship where you experience it. We have discussed this before, and some of what has also been characteristic has been that violence is experienced in all parts of our society. It is therefore important to say that it is all types of families that experience the nature of violence. If you're a man, if you're a woman, if you're a child, then of course action must be taken. So when the rapporteur for New Citizens takes the view that we do not want the violence of men and women to be important, that is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125209	Mette Thiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125210	I note that the rapporteur, like the Minister, is not answering the question. I just asked quite calmly whether it was not very fair for men and women to be treated in this area. It is simply a question of gender-neutralising Article 109, and again the rapporteur brings a very, very long svada about all sorts of other things. It's pretty simple. I think that the Danish people generally find it very difficult to understand why it is that men should be placed at a disadvantage and that in 2021 we have a paragraph that only addresses women when there are so many people on the left, in particular, who are so busy talking about equality when it comes to women of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125249	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125252	The rapporteur himself is now talking about the general public. I would say that I have spent an incredible amount of time talking to people who have experienced violence and I simply do not agree with the rapporteur in the way she describes it. Nor do I agree with the way in which we distort what we say. When we in the Social Democratic Party say that we should look at the violence of men, the violence of women and take action against children, that is what we really mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125324	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125339	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party and New Citizens for raising this very important debate on ensuring equal opportunities for help for men and women in crisis situations. It is no secret that the Left, like the Danish People's Party, has long struggled to create gender equality when it comes to infirm men and women who have to move on in life. We showed this at the latest in our joint struggle to also give men the right to psychological assistance while they are staying at a male crisis centre after violence in close relationships. There should be no doubt that the Left has great sympathy for the resolution. Violence and threats are oppressive, destructive, no matter who it happens to. Violence is both humiliating and straines self - esteem. In other words, violence is devastating to the person who is subjected to it and as a victim of violence one needs help, regardless of whether one is a man or a woman. In Denmark, we are used to thinking of the man as a perpetrator and the woman as a victim. But the fact is that, and it has been repeated several times in the Chamber today, there are 19,000 men every year who are subjected to physical partner violence. Violence does not require physical superiority, and it is an outmoded thinking when you per. definition sees the man as a perpetrator. It is also a thought which can easily lead to stigmatisation of the men who have been subjected to violence, because it is precisely not recognised that violence can also be detrimental to men. 19,000 have been exposed to the past year. I don't dare think about how high the shadow numbers can be. It is often seen how men do not reach out for the help they need, precisely because there is this notion that men cannot be victims of violence. We, as legislators, therefore have a responsibility to send out a clear signal that we, as a society, can both accommodate, but of course also support the men who have been subjected to partner violence. Therefore, it is important to change the law so that violent men also experience that they are met with respect and the necessary support from society. From the point of view of equality, it is illogical that, to this day, there is still a difference between the rights and access to aid for men and women affected by violence. I have heard such a difference before because women are more exposed to violence in close relationships than men. We heard that again today. It is true that 38 000 women and 19 000 men are subjected each year to physical partner violence. However, for us in the Left, it does not make sense to neglect violence against men by saying that women are subjected to harsher violence or because the statistics of violence are higher in favour of women. This will somewhere correspond to the fact that men should have less right to be treated for sclerosis simply because there are more women who are affected by it. That cannot be right, and it should not be so. Of course it shouldn't be like that. All Danes have equal access to help and must have equal access to help in the welfare society. All in all, the Left is very, very positive about the resolution and we look forward to discussing it further. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125729	There is a brief comment on Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125733	I just need to know if I heard right. Is it the case that the rapporteur from the Left believes that the violence to which women are subjected is comparable to the violence to which men are subjected? Because when we look at the statistics and those who work with the violence that women experience, we are talking about killing and rape and suffocation and branding and economic sanctions. Or maybe I just heard wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125806	We believe that violence is violence. It is true that you can compare it, but you can also compare it between women and say that one woman has suffered more violence than the other. Should we not give help to those who are not exposed enough? Are there degrees of what violence should be? We recognise that violence against women can be harsher. In the worst case scenario, it can cost our lives; we are aware of that. There is no doubt that most women are subjected to the most serious violence with persecution and threats, and so on, but that does not change the fact that some men are affected by violence. Should we then say to them: I'm sorry, but you'll have to wait until you've been beaten up enough, or until the punches you've had are hard enough? That's the one we don't want to be in on. As I said, can we see from the figures that there are far more women involved, but does this change the fact that as a man you need help? We do not think so, but apparently the Socialists do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125901	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125902	Thank you. We really do disagree here, but I would also like to ask how the rapporteur thinks that, when they were in government, the Left lifted the area of violence for men and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125925	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423125927	Thank you very much. I think that the Social Democrats should respond to the question of whether this area should be treated equally. Well, maybe it is. We're getting smarter. We're changing our views. It would be strange if we were always to say that we should hold on to what we once meant. A lot has been done in this area. We're getting smarter and smarter. We are somewhere today and we believe that it cannot be right for legislation to look at the gender or the levels of violence. Do we really have to answer the 19,000 men, you know what? You're gonna have to stay home, or you're gonna have to wait until you get pushed down the stairs or the violence gets rougher before we do anything for you? We can't do that. We want equality in this area and we want help when it is the case that you seek help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130015	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Trine Torp. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130036	That is, of course, true, because two parties are actually making proposals, so we are skipping a little more here. Yes, first of all, I would like to start by thanking New Civil and Danish People's Party for highlighting that men who have been subjected to violence should have the right to help. Everyone, regardless of gender and background, must have the right to social protection, advice and treatment if they are exposed to violence in close relationships. Because when you are exposed to violence, the consequences of violence can be seen both physically and psychologically. At the same time, however, it is important to bear in mind that there is a difference between the needs of women affected by violence and those affected by violence in relation to what they need help with. For example: women are mostly exposed to the most serious physical violence and, in some cases, even murder by a partner or an ex-partner. We have a detailed knowledge of the extent and forms of violence that women have been subjected to from the annual statistics of women and children in crisis centres by the Social Protection Agency. There is also limited knowledge of who the men who receive assistance under § 110 are, therefore, the paragraph under which the men's crisis centres fall. This is because there are several different crises which provide access to temporary stays, for example. Herberg, but also at men's crisis centers. That is why we in the SF are also pleased that we had money placed in the reserve to initiate a study to identify the needs of men who are exposed to violence in close relationships. The study is expected to be completed by 2021, as far as I remember, and therefore it will be relevant to have political negotiations on the uncovered needs of men exposed to violence when we have seen that study. When we cannot support the proposals, it is partly because we do not believe that it is realistic to change the legislation of this Assembly, as it says, and partly because we do not want to equate men and women under the same paragraph, because we are concerned that it may mean that men have the right to be accommodated at a women's crisis centre and vice versa. That is also why, together with the Enhedslisten, we have tabled a motion for a resolution, namely B 204, which has the same intention as the proposals we are debating today and which have been discussed in the Committee on Gender Equality. Here we propose that negotiations be convened for an independent section 109a, which gives men and their children the same rights as women affected by violence, but at men's crisis centres, and we propose that this be done before the end of the parliamentary year 2021-22, because we also have the results of the study that we have decided to do together. In this way, we will ensure that women's crisis centres can target their offer to women exposed to violence and that male crisis centres can target their offer to men exposed to violence. The SF cannot therefore support the proposal, but we hope that together we can find solutions that will guarantee men affected by violence the same rights as women affected by violence, preferably in the first half of 2022, when we have received the study of the needs of men, with attention to the fact that their needs are not necessarily the same as those of women. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130410	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130416	Thank you. I cannot help but smile a little because the rapporteur says that it should be a section 109a and all these things. Those are many fine words, but the intention is probably the same: to ensure equal and equal opportunities regardless of gender. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur: could a joint report be drawn up in relation to this? On the part of the Danish People's Party, we agree that it is easy to examine different degrees, but we still believe that there should be equal opportunities in terms of aid, and that is what section 109 is about, that women and children are entitled to that help and that men do not have. Could one imagine that we could have a joint report on this? 'Cause that sounds like we're on the same page. I believe that the SF has tabled their motion for a resolution together with the Enhedslisten, after we have tabled our motion for a resolution in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130521	I don't know how it is in time. I had some doubts about what was funny in what I had said. Because I really think I said very clearly that we are interested in giving the same rights or opportunities for help to men and women, but that we are also saying that there is a difference in needs, and it may be that that study also confirms us in it. I do not know whether that is the case, but I can be concerned that if you have men and women under the same paragraph, you will not be able to reject a man at a women's crisis centre if there is a vacancy there and there is no room available at a men's crisis centre. In fact, it is also an attempt to say that there is a need for a gender-separated crisis centre system in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130612	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130614	Yes, but is that no longer such an excuse, because the rapporteur knows that that is not the intention? The intentions are to give men the same opportunities and, of course, not that they should be accommodated in a women's crisis centre. And that's why I kind of pulled a little bit on the smile tape. Sometimes I think that you try to find hair in the soup, even though you actually intend to do the same, in order not to vote in favour of a proposal. Anyway, it sounds like we can land something in this area. I just have to say that Lev Without Violence has been the banner leader for this very thing, and the men's centres are also shouting for equality in relation to section 109 of the Service Act. It's not something just pulled out of this hat.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130659	No, but I hope that we can have a report, it would be fine if we could do that where we could reconcile the views. But it's not just a detail here with section 109a. I have also justified it by the fact that I actually believe that we need to have the knowledge from the study we have jointly launched when we discuss it. Indeed, we do not know the financing requirement until we have the results of that study. I also justified it by the fact that I do not believe that we can achieve it within this parliamentary assembly. So I think I have actually complied with the intention as well and as clearly as I can, but also given some, I think, reasonable reasons why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130740	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130744	It's just that I'm so puzzled about this one again finding hair in the soup approach to it. This is all about gender-neutralising this paragraph. It comes from some parties which, in normal circumstances, talk a lot about equality, and it is really just a question of it, but then the rapporteur starts to talk about the need to identify the target group. The minister has also said so in the past, but we know who the target group is. They're men. It's just putting men and women on an equal footing. I'm just wondering, 'cause the people who have to make these offers are the shelters. It's not us in here at Christiansborg who are going to make them, but the shelters. So why is it that the politicians in here have such a great need to get a lot of knowledge about whether it is because of a lot of beatings or whether it is because you have been thrown down the stairs or what it may be that these men have been subjected to? Why do you need it instead of just being quite quiet to say that it must of course be exactly the same treatment that you receive, whether you are a man or a woman, if you are subjected to violence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130847	Like the New Citizens' rapporteur, who seems to be looking for hair in the soup, I am surprised that New Citizens always refer to the politicians in here as if they are some other than themselves. I don't think it is. Actually, I don't want to be gender neutral. If that is what the New Civil and also the Danish People's Party wants, then I think that we will have difficulty landing a report, because a report is for us to agree equally, but also to recognise that there can be very different needs for men and women and that violence is different and that we need to recognise that there are gender differences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130924	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130927	I do not understand why the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party believes that we need to know. The whole essence of this is whether you're in favour of violence being the same, whether it's men or women being exposed to it. The question is whether they should have the same treatment or whether they still want it divided. I can only hear that the Socialist People's Party is in favour of the latter, and I am very surprised that we do not just recognise that they must, of course, have the same treatment. This isn't about how serious the violence is. It's about violence being violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423130959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131002	I wonder why we need to talk so far away from each other when I have said that the SF wants to equalise the right to receive help and support, whether you are a man or a woman. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution together with the Enhedslisten, in which the intention is the same. So I simply do not understand that we should have that discussion, at all, instead of meeting that we have a desire that we recognise that violence looks very different, depending on whether it is a man or a woman who is exposed to it, but that we believe that one should have the right to help if one is subjected to violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131036	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. If the rapporteur wants to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur, that is fine. The next rapporteur is clear, and that is the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Vinther. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131059	Thank you for the floor. These are two good proposals which indicate that there is no equality in legislation in the opportunities offered by men and women affected by violence for help in crisis situations, including stays at shelters. We are well disposed to do so. Violence against others, men as well as women, is unacceptable, but unfortunately that is part of the reality we have to deal with. There are people who are subjected to violence, and that has consequences, and those people need help, regardless of gender. It can be said that we really want legislation in this area that is not gender-based but needs-oriented. We are positive, but believe that there is a lack of funding for the proposals. That is why we cannot support them in their present form. This does not mean that the area is not a priority in advance. The Finance Act for last year provides funds for enhanced out-patient counselling of the victims of violence and offenders, both men and women, and funds have been allocated by a broad majority in this Chamber to carry out a detailed study of the extent of the need for help this year, as several have also mentioned. We would like to wait for that study so that we can have more accurate knowledge of possible additional needs, and when we have it we can re-examine the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131205	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131211	Earlier this day we have had a debate in the field of disability, among other things. on the Service Act, in relation to the need for people with disabilities to have AT due to their disability. It's not about what help you can get depending on gender. It is simply a matter of the municipality being obliged to do so in relation to the Service Act, and then there is a lot of discussion about it. But here in section 109 of the Service Act, it is actually explicitly stated that the aid goes only to women and children. That's the whole essence of this. I do not understand why Radicals cannot support it. Now we're talking about funding. The rapporteur would simply say to a sclerosis patient or someone else that he or she cannot get the remedy because he or she does not have as much sclerosis as one of the other citizens has. It doesn't add up like that. I hope that the Radical Left can understand my point about this. When we talk about funding in relation to this proposal, we are also saying that aid must be secured. Well, I guess it's about changing the system you have to write the men in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131328	Thank you for the question. Now we do not know the extent, so we know if there is any further need beyond what we have today. This is not a financial law debate, and the reason I know this is because I am not a financial rapporteur, because it would have been someone else who had been standing here. We take that part when we know how much it costs, and we know that when we have the analysis and then we take the discussion again in the context of the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131344	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131347	It is a little interesting in terms of what it costs to give equal opportunities. And frankly, at the same time, it is said that of course those who are victims of violence need help, but you just don't want to write it into the provisions of the Service Act. Does the rapporteur not see that this seems a little strange, does he not? I mean, we just had a minister who said that of course everyone needs help, but why not just write it into the legislation? Quite frankly, does the rapporteur not agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131423	An expansion of the opportunities available today costs something, and we must find money for that. That's how things normally work, at least where I come from. We may have different opinions, but we need to have the same facts. That is why we must wait for an analysis to identify what needs to be, so that we can also determine what costs and prioritise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131438	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131441	Is the Radical Left in favour of gender equality yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131453	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131458	That's very nice to know, because that's what this whole debate is all about. So that means that the Radical Left is in favour of gender equality and that men and women must be equal, but we are voting against men being given the same rights as women in this very area, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131509	We are not voting against equal conditions and equal opportunities. We are voting in favour of funding for the proposals that we are putting forward. And with the newly won interest of New Citizens in equality, I look forward to the party also supporting equal maternity for fathers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131522	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423131540	I would like to start by saying that we are in fact having some sort of technical debate in the Parliamentary Chamber, which I am quite sure is slipping over the heads of both ourselves and a lot of people outside, but it is nevertheless quite important. Because, as I hear it, there is not a single party in the Folketing who does not agree that the rights and offers of support, help, psychological assistance and access to crisis centres with their children must be the same as those of violence-stricken men and women, and that it is their needs that determine that support. There must be equal rights, completely. Of course, the Enhedslisten supports this too, which is why I would like to start by making it absolutely clear that in the Enhedslisten we agree that the current legislation is inadequate and that is why, together with the SF, we have also tabled a motion for a resolution which in many ways has the same objective as the two motions for resolutions we are debating in the House today. At the request of the authors of these motions, we have then postponed the debate on the resolution so that we could get there first, because we would like to retain that, and we have of course agreed to it. But there is also a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten and the SF. What we have proposed is that we create a new independent clause in the Service Act, namely section 109a, which has similar offers and similar rights to men who are currently for women in section 109 of the Service Act. Why is it important for you to have two separate paragraphs instead of in goose-eyes just to neutralise the already existing section 109? That is, of course, the essence of the discussion that is taking place here in the Chamber now. Should we just say that all people, regardless of gender, fall under section 109, or should we have a paragraph for men and a paragraph for women who have the same rights? This is important because violence in close relationships is not gender-neutral, and therefore efforts should not be gender-neutral either. This does not mean that violence against men is less serious than violence against women or should be taken less seriously or should be treated less badly, not at all. But this means that, in order to provide the help needed for a man who is violent and a woman who is violent, the gender perspective must be taken into account. That is, for example, the case. It is really important to understand, if you are to make an effort against a man who has been battered, that the taboos that follow when you are beaten, for example. by a woman in a relationship, is completely different from the taboos and what you are faced with, if you are a woman who is beaten by a man who is completely different. You also have to understand that a great many of the men affected by violence are actually beaten by other men in their relationship. I mean, things are different depending on gender, and so is violence. It is not more or less serious, but it is different. And that's why it's so important a discussion, even if it's a little nerdy. In addition, I would also like to say that having a particular attention to and action against all forms of violence that mainly affect women is still predominantly women who are exposed to partner violence and violence in close relationships; it is no less serious or more serious; it is just more extensive and including having a non-sex neutral response in the form of women's crisis centres is an obligation which Denmark also has under the Istanbul Convention, which we ratified in 2014. There is a difference between the taboos that I talked about before and the violence that men and women are subjected to. The protection and aid must also take that into account in concrete terms. Then violence against women is often also a structural social problem. We must also take that into account. And, as I said earlier, the stigmatisation and tabooing that men are subjected to in connection with violence is also something that needs to be given a very special focus. That is why Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal to neutralise Article 109, and I hope that I have made this very clear. However, we will support the work of ensuring that the men affected by violence, who are and who exist, receive the help they need, and that, of course, also means the same rights. This means that we must have a cover-up that we have set in motion with the social reserve, and that means that in the long term we will work to make an independent paragraph for violent men in the Service Act. That is what we hope the work we have already started will end up. So thank you for the suggestions. We cannot support them as they are. I hope I have made it clear that it is not a question of resistance to equality or a failure to recognise that violence against men can also be very, very serious, but a desire to stick to the fact that the violence to which men and women are subjected is not, after all, the same, and we are failing both men and women who are victims of violence if we forget it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423132118	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur and it is for Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423132123	Thank you very much for a very good and clear approach to the technical part. The rapporteur repeats a number of times in his rapporteur's speech this with the nature of gender-based violence. I am a little curious to hear whether the rapporteur will tell us a little more about what is meant. Now the rapporteur has been good at doing it with Article 109 and Article 110, so perhaps the rapporteur can just add a few words to what she means by that there is a very large difference between gender-based violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423132153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423132155	After all, research shows us that women are more often exposed to violence in close relationships, but also that the violence to which women are subjected is harsher, more brutal, often longer-lasting, and it is also often women who end up being killed. The violence suffered by men is often committed by other men in the relationship. That is also an important aspect to take into account. And that violence is often of a different nature. It is still violence, but of a different nature, and it is also often psychological violence. These are some of the things that are quite specific in relation to the pretty violence. Then there is the whole approach to and understanding of men and women in our culture, which is also involved, in relation to who is subjected to violence and how much. And, unfortunately, we are still living away in a society where a great many women themselves and very many men regard the two sexes as not equal, and this can ultimately help to create more violence in their homes, among others. because men do not learn to get the tools to express their anger in any other way than through violence. This is the structural gender problem of violence that we must also address in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423132314	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423132318	The rapporteur also refers to the taboos on violence, in other words, mostly in relation to men, but could the rapporteur say a little more about how she sees the massive undergrowth of violence and the taboo on violence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423132335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423132337	That is absolutely right. Now I have been talking a lot about what the taboos are about battered men: lack of manhood and so on. etc., with a high degree of stigmatisation. Violence against women is also deeply, deeply stigmatised and taboo, often with a very high degree of guilt and shame, where they say: You have earned it yourself; you have aroused anger in him yourself; you also knew well... etc. At the same time, unfortunately, we are still suffering from the fact that we, as a society, have been, and I do not think that any of us can say in concrete terms, that we have enormous difficulty in actually intervening. In other words, calling it domestic violence and turning it into something that is going on within the four walls of the home is far too much still going on. And it's also part of the gender-based violence, so that we're simply still away somewhere in our watchback, having this approach, where the woman may be a little bit the man's property, and where they say that what happens within the four walls of the home is something he decides. At least we have not let it go completely, because we are not interfering enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423132446	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, nor do I see any rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. Thus the two rapporteurs for the authors of the motion can come to the floor, but one at a time. Mrs Karina Adsbøl has the floor as rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423132511	Thank you. And the good thing about it is that you have a little extra speaking time up here on the platform when the proposals are being discussed together. In the Danish People's Party, we have worked for many years to amend section 109 of the Service Act through various negotiations, and we have also put forward this proposal and a similar proposal in the past. However, the purpose of this motion for a resolution is precisely to ensure that men in crisis have access to the same offer under Article 109 of the Services Act as applies to women. After all, according to section 109 of the Service Act, municipalities are obliged to offer temporary residence in settlements for women in need of violence and crisis, and for others. to offer support and advice to women in relation to housing, economics, labour market, health care, school, day care, etc. Unfortunately, Article 109 of the Services Act today applies only to women who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence or similar crisis in relation to family or social relationships. In addition, any children of women are covered by the provision. And in the Danish People's Party, we believe that help for victims of violence and crisis should not depend on the sex of the person, and we therefore believe that help for men and women in crisis and violence should be the same. I fully agree that there may be some different treatment options depending on what it is for a violence one has been subjected to. But it is, in fact, about equal opportunities. The government previously put forward a bill on women's right to psychological assistance. The draft law provided for the municipal council to offer 10 hours of psychological treatment to women who resided in a shelter under section 109. Here, too, the men were forgotten. However, we fought a trial scheme for men into the reserve agreement, and we fought that, among other things. along with the Left hard too. We even tabled an amendment to the law we were discussing at the time on psychological assistance for men and their children. Unfortunately, it was shot down in the Assembly Hall. Let me say clearly that all forms of violence are totally unacceptable, regardless of who commits it. Violence against women has been about the same level, while you can actually see an increase in relation to violence against men. When there is violence in a family, it cannot be avoided that it affects more people, including those who live with violence in the family. Children need help, and they need it, whether they show up with Mom at a shelter or whether they show up with Dad at a men's center. And that is why I would also like to hear the Minister answer why the government does not want equality in this area, including that it should be treated equally, so that the same offers can be obtained in relation to both psychological treatment and also in relation to section 109 of the Services Act. It is very good that you want to help women and children who are victims of violence, and we also want to do so in the Danish People's Party. But, as I said earlier, we want equal opportunities. And it has to be said that the Service Act today does not match that need. Nor do we want violence to become some kind of gender struggle, and we also fully support the fact that there is a great difference between the degree of violence and the types of violence. The Danish People's Party's proposal has been accepted by us to be dealt with in conjunction with the proposals of the New Citizens' Party, so it is something of the same, but not quite so. I mean, we are not writing in our motion for a resolution on gender neutrality, but it is for us that men are at least given the same opportunities. We lack reason and reasonableness when men and their children have a worse legal position than women and when there is no doubt about the need for help for men and their children. And the different legal situation between men and women is, of course, due to the fact that men can get an offer under Article 110 of the Services Act. So can women, because § 110 applies to both sexes, but § 109 does not. Among the differences between men and women's legal status, it can be pointed out that, according to section 109, women are printed anonymously, while men do not have the same opportunities under section 110. The municipality has a special consultative duty towards women who are enrolled under section 109, that is to say to coordinate with advice, but it does not have the same duty towards men. Under § 109, staff are also specialised in working with violence in close relationships, and the same necessarily does not apply under § 110. Under § 109, children and women are provided with care and support, including psychotherapy, but men do not have the same opportunity in relation to the right to their children under § 110. There is then an experimental arrangement under way, and we are very happy that we could at least get through it. It is the case today that men often have to travel longer in relation to crisis offers, and that is also a challenge. So when men and women go to the shelter, it is under two different paragraphs, and several organisations have said it is discriminatory. In the article from Nordjyske they also write that there is gender discrimination. However, as I could read, the difference is necessary, according to that article, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly believes, because the violence has a gender side. I would just like to say that we know once again that it is important to have equal opportunities for that help and support regardless of sex. The difference that exists today should simply not be there, even if you ask Lev without Violence. Because when men and women go to a crisis centre, they stay under their separate legislative clauses, and that also means that they do not have the same opportunities for help. The Director of Lev Without Violence also believes that there is discrimination. The same is true of the director of the Men's Crisis Centre, and in the article I have read, they believe that the law is marked by a lack of social recognition that men can also be subjected to violence, and men suffer from it. Where a woman with violence is socially regarded as a victim who immediately deserves sympathy and help, many of the men we see experience, according to the article, that they are regarded as losers who should be able to defend themselves. Violence against men has also always been known to be illustrated in the most often humorous way at the expense of the man. You know that scenario with the cowy man with the wife and the cookie roll. We just have to note that there is still no equality in the field of violence, and that is what we in the Danish People's Party want. We also believe that it is unspeakable that there is no such thing. But now I have listened to this debate today, and what I am really listening to is that we can reach an agreement. The rapporteur of the Left made an excellent speech, and I heard some good speeches that make me think that, rather than perhaps talking us apart, we can meet around a report in this area where we, like the government, are obliged to act. Because it's just a bias in this area. In relation to both the proposals of the new citizens and our proposals and, it can be said, the previous proposal to be dealt with in the Committee on Gender Equality, I think it would be best if we deal with it in the Committee on Social Affairs together so that there is nothing going on in the Committee on Gender Equality regarding a report and something going on in the Committee on Social Affairs. I am thinking of the SF rapporteur's speech about something being put forward in the Committee on Gender Equality. It is important that there should be no overlap and that we should coordinate in order to perhaps bring it together in the Committee on Social Affairs, I think, in order to be able to come up with a joint report. But I am pleased with the debate we have had today. Instead of perhaps talking more away from each other, I just think it is important that we speak the same language, because I actually think I can hear that we have some of the same intentions. So I look forward to further discussion in committee and hope that we can reach a common agreement on this. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423133426	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I shall now give the floor to the other draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen from the New Citizens' Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423133456	Gender equality has been debated a lot for decades. It is often the left that leads the way, and here we are talking about red socks, feminists and women's rights. But what about the men? You see, this is actually quite wild, actually so wild that I had a very hard time believing it when I read it, but we simply have legislation in Denmark that is exclusively targeted women. We have a separate paragraph where women are better placed to protect themselves and their children if they are subjected to violence and have to seek help at a shelter. Men are generally significantly worse off than women when they experience threats, violence or abuse in family or social relationships, and these are the facts. The extent of violence against men is significant, with approx. 19,000 men in 2017 were subjected to physical partner violence. Violence is violence, psychologically and physically, whether it is perpetrated against a woman or against a man. I've been talking to, uh... Those who put forward the citizens' proposal which actually forms the basis of this proposal that we in the New Citizens' Party have put forward. And these are terrible examples that they can show. I've also spoken to the Man Center, and I can tell you a story from the real world. Now you will meet Rasmus: Rasmus lets himself fall into the chair with a heaviness that shows that it is further down than he thought. That's the way it is. He's fallen. He's married to Susanne, and they have two boys together. They've been married for eight years, they have house and good jobs; the boys have many friends, they're a couple of lovely boys. Rasmus's escaping. Susanne is his great love, and they complement each other very well. At least they did at first; they have laughed a lot at each other, but it's been a long time. Now she gives him diagnoses and tells him all the time that his job is not good enough, that he does not earn enough money, that his interests are strange, that his body is disgusting. She says he is a bad father, and she will decide what to do with the children; they also often hear the things she says about him. Rasmus tells Mandecenter's advisor that his wife has mentally driven him down, and when she threatens to prevent him from seeing his children, he calls it psychological terror. She's also starting to slap him and slap him. He sees it as if she's trying to provoke him to beat her, and he says he's trying to avoid the punches by turning around and hoping it'll pass. He thinks that the worst thing is that the violence has escalated in recent years; in particular, he feels bad about children having to experience the increasing toxic atmosphere. The violence usually takes place just before we go to sleep, he says. When she starts driving up, he knows how it can develop, and therefore he tries to calm her down; but he is not so good at that. The other day, she went upstairs and slammed one on him. Afterwards, she said it was his own fault because he provoked her. It's different how Rasmus reacts when Susanne gets violent. He often tries to protect himself and keep her arms away when she wants to beat; other times he pulls away a few meters and tries to talk calmly. He has tried to count to three when he gets angry, and he has tried to keep the anger in, but one day he shouted at her and pushed her. When he had pushed her, she threw him out and shouted that he should go out into the woods and hang himself. Rasmus tells me he's having a hard time accepting that his wife hits and talks ugly to him. Nor does he know how to live with the fact that he has left the violence on for so long. He's afraid it'll escalate further if he responds. He's had a hard time quitting because he's very dependent on being in a relationship. He describes Susanne as her best friend and highlights that she is the mother of his children. He hopes they can find out everything because he doesn't want the family to break up. He tells us that he feels lonely and that he finds it difficult to talk to his friends about the violence. He says he's sitting in a hole looking out at the world. To be honest, when I hear examples such as the one I have just read out, this is a very specific example. If Rasmus had been a woman, he would have had quite different rights. Why? Yeah, just because he was a woman. How can we even justify this in today's Denmark? Where are the equal opportunities defenders? The difference in the legal situation between men and women is due to the fact that men can only receive assistance under Article 110 of the Services Act, which, contrary to Article 109 of the Services Act, applies to both sexes. Moreover, the number of offers to victims of violence and their children is fewer and often less suitable. While the figure since 2005 has been broadly constant for women, men are experiencing a significant increase in partner violence. Since 2005, the number of men exposed to violence in Denmark has almost tripled. We have a rather specific problem, we have a serious problem. But it can actually be solved simply not by more men being subjected to violence, because it is a much more complex problem but by the fact that help must be the same, whether you are a man or a woman. It should be quite simple. It's just about will. And now we have to see whether all those who usually talk about equality really mean it when it comes to men.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134045	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the two proposals be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134113	The debate is open and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Troels Ravn
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134124	Thank you for the floor. In social democracy, we are very concerned about combating money laundering and cross-border financial crime. It is important to combat both because it is illegal in its own right, but also because it is part of the economic cycle in the cross-border criminal environments. And it can be said that they have been too easy for far too long. At the same time, we are concerned that tax legislation is appropriate and does not impose unnecessary burdens on citizens and businesses. This bill that we have to deal with today ensures that the Danish rules on cash and other cash control are in line with EU rules, which the EU Member States recently agreed to improve. This does not mean that businesses have to deal with different rules when cash and other cash cross external and internal borders respectively. Firstly, the proposal introduces a declaration obligation for carriers of cash equivalent to EUR 10 000 or more. At the same time, the tax administration will be able to require a report within 30 days when it comes to unaccompanied cash, for example. cash sent by post when the value is equal to or greater than EUR 10,000. Secondly, the tax authorities will be able to withhold cash if there are indications that the funds are related to criminal acts, regardless of the amount involved. At the same time, SØIK, also known as the Bagmandspolice, should have forward-looking all information on the movement of cash and cash funds reported to the tax administration, and this would strengthen the ability to combat money laundering and financial crime. Thirdly, the bill will also update the Customs Act to simplify the rules and ensure compliance with EU rules. For example: the rules on the limitation period of a customs debt shall be specified and an automatic one-year additional period shall be introduced from the date of notification of the decision and the fees charged by the customs authorities for the issue of certificates of acceptance under the TIR system shall be abolished. All in all, it is a whole range of good measures that strike a balance in order to combat money laundering and financial crime in a way that does not entail unnecessary burdens for citizens and businesses. We have taken note of the fact that the consultation answers testify to a broad consensus on the legislative proposal and the amendments, and we are pleased about that. So the Social Democratic Party supports the bill, and I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they do. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134403	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments, so I can welcome the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur from the Left. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134423	Thank you for the floor, President. I shall not repeat all the technical, but just say that there are probably many Danes who are dreaming of finding some unaccompanied cash; that is what this is all about; it is actually quite interesting if you could find unaccompanied cash around, however, I cannot reveal that. But this bill is about modernising the money regulation that regulates these parts. And I must also say that unaccompanied cash is money sent per person. post, courier and in various other ways, without there being natural persons involved, and that is, of course, what this is all about. However, I think that this is an extremely interesting way of saying it: unaccompanied cash, however, it is worth noting about this bill. And now I can't pull it anymore. We are in favour of the bill and any changes that may be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134536	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left, who has to leave the floor unaccompanied after a speech by the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134555	I agree that the word "unaccompanied" is a fantastic word for money. There you could imagine the trees in the fall, where they lose the leaves or the money that is unaccompanied, and then you can pick them, and that could be great, right? Well, I can't make up a long speech about this bill. I thought that was a fine review of Mr. Troels Ravn, who has told us what it was about, and from the Danish People's Party we support it. It seems to be straight on the road, so I do not want to prolong the debate on it. We support the proposal of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134619	Thank you to the rapporteur. I hardly noticed that the rapporteur touched the platform, but thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur, who is the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr President. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134636	Thank you. In the fight against money laundering, both Denmark and the EU play a crucial role, and it is therefore positive that the government, with this bill, is proposing to improve reporting on money laundering and to harmonise Danish and European law in this area. In this way, we support, among other things, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. even more up on SØIK's work on cash movements in relation to the fight against money laundering, and this is a step in the right direction. In addition, the draft law provides for the abolition of the provision on the levying of fees for the issue of certificates of acceptance under the TIR system, as this is not provided for in the EU rules. This also means that the fees already collected must be reimbursed. SF supports this bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134717	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Here too there were no brief comments, and then the next rapporteur is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, since the Radical Left has welcomed him, and that is Mr von der Vring. Rune Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134738	This bill is, of course, very much a legislative proposal designed to ensure that Denmark's rules fly with EU rules in relation to the handling of unaccompanied funds or, at least, liquid funds that cross borders. It is a bill that is good and that the Enhedslisten is positive about. We have a few proposals on elements of it, in relation to whether the draft law merely replaces existing Danish rules, and if so, whether there can also be a weakening of some rules in this regard, so that we will have to ask some clarification questions. But we are in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134814	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments here either. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134831	Thank you. It is, of course, also a priority for the Conservative People's Party to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, just as we also want tax legislation to be appropriate for both citizens and businesses. We can therefore also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134846	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party. And since I do not see the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party or the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance present in the Chamber, I can give the floor to the tax minister. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423134900	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for the broad support. It is important to all of us, as the draft law also states, and it is of course also important to the government that we do what we can to combat crime, such as money laundering and terrorist financing. And, of course, it is also important, as the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, said, that tax legislation is appropriate for both citizens and companies. As part of the fight against accurate money laundering and terrorist financing, EU Member States have agreed to improve the rules on cash and cash control at external borders. The EU's rules are, of course, directly applicable in the EU, but since we in Denmark also have Danish rules, which mainly regulate internal border controls, we need to change the rules. The bill then ensures that the Danish rules on cash and other cash control are in line with the rules that have then been agreed, i.e. the EU's new rules. At the same time, the Danish rules change so that businesses do not have to deal with different rules when cash and other cash cross the EU's external and internal borders respectively. What is this all about? It is proposed that a declaration be made to bear cash equivalent to EUR 10 000 or more. The so-called unaccompanied cash was a little cheerful about here, because what is it? Yes, for example, it's cash that's sent per. It is proposed to them that the tax administration may require a report within 30 days when the value is equivalent to EUR 10,000 or more. It is also proposed that, whether the amount is below or above EUR 10,000, it will always be possible for tax authorities to withhold cash if there are indications that the funds are related to criminal acts. In addition, SØIK has to have all information on the movements of cash and other cash that is reported to and reported to the tax administration for the purpose of combating money laundering and other financial crime in the future. There is no doubt that these changes will strengthen the control of cash and other cash in Denmark, and they will ensure that companies and citizens are met with uniform rules when they cross both the EU's external borders and the EU's internal borders. Last but not least, the proposal also contains an update of the Customs Code, which clarifies and simplifies the rules in force. This is proposed, among other things. to clarify the rules on the limitation period of a customs debt and to introduce an automatic additional period of one year from the date of notification of the decision by the Authority. Finally, it is proposed that the customs authorities should abolish the fee for issuing certificates under this so-called TIR system, as there is no legal basis under EU rules for charging such a fee. So it is a technical but nevertheless important proposal, which means that we are strengthening our efforts in the fight against crime and, of course, particularly in the field of money laundering and terrorist financing. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423135225	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief comments to the tax minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423135247	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome, sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423135303	Thank you for the floor. It is a proper package that we have to deal with here. The draft law contains changes in a wide variety of areas, but I will try to get around it all with some comments. Firstly, the draft law provides for two adjustments to the legislation to ensure that the Danish rules comply with EU law. First of all, the bill introduces tax liability for Danish associations when they receive Danish share dividends, interest or exchange gains on controlled debts and royalties. This is a necessary change, as Danish associations have more favourable rules than foreign associations, which is contrary to EU law. Of course, it may affect parts of the Danish association's life, but the proposed tax liability is considered to be the only option if we are to safeguard the Danish source tax on dividends to foreigners. The draft law provides for an exemption for the taxation of associations which meet the requirements of being exclusively of general interest or of general interest, and this is, in the view of the Social Democrats, a balanced model, given that we have to make a change. And I understand that the Minister of Taxation is willing to look at the fact that it is additional revenue of about 20 million. kr. Every year, as a result of the changes, is linked to the life of the association. That's a good thing. The second adaptation of EU law concerns the introduction of tax liability on share dividends for Danish UCITS with minimum taxation when they receive the share dividends. The amendment is prompted by a ruling by the European Court of Justice, which has opposed Denmark, and this is a necessary adjustment to ensure the Danish dividend tax. Secondly, the draft law provides for a number of changes to the applicable tax rules, which must take account of the very special situation that has arisen as a result of the temporary ban on mink teams in Denmark, and then we are over in a completely different ball street. It is, of course, a process which must be followed in a fair manner, and it is proposed that all transfers of mink farms and accompanying industries resulting from the temporary ban can be carried out without an increase in the tax under the Bomb Tax Act if the company is acquired at a reduced rate. In addition, it is proposed to give mink growers and related business owners an additional year to start a new business in the business scheme without any tax on any profits saved. And then the reverse charge is proposed to state authorities when they have to pay mink growers and downstream companies, and the reason is to bypass the use of VAT for any VAT-related supplies from the State authority to the affected mink growers and downstream industries for the payment of other creditors, such as: banks that have a mortgage in the companies and that minkers and followers are not left with a VAT debt. Thirdly, the bill will increase the current tax-free bottom allowance for benefits to persons from approved funds supporting social or disease-fighting work from DKK 10,000. for DKK 15,200. It is important for the Social Democratic Party that the deduction should be increased to a reasonable level so that the funds can be supported in strengthening social and disease-fighting work. Fourthly, it is proposed that Danish CSDs should report dividends on shares, even if they are in a custody held by a foreign bank. It must ensure that the tax authorities know about the dividends, whether it is a Danish or foreign bank that transfers it. We in the Social Democratic Party see this as a positive step which strengthens the possibilities of avoiding tax evasion and tax evasion. Finally, the proposal seeks to eliminate the discrimination between public nursing homes and self-employed nursing homes and homes by tax-freeing the latter. So all in all, it's a fair play, but the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423135736	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423135746	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Let us take a small example: In Copenhagen two men live on the same road, Aktievej. One of them chooses to buy a share in Novo and that's fine, and the other chooses to buy a share in an investment fund that buys a share in Novo. Then it takes a year, and then they'll both be happy, because Novo pays $100, and then one of them pays $27, and the other pays $37. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. But then one day they'll meet at the hedge and compare. Does the rapporteur think it is reasonable that one should pay $27 and pay $37? You darling?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423135848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423135851	Thank you for the question. It is clear that, as the rapporteur puts it up here, it must be admitted that there may be an imbalance in it. Overall, I see that this adaptation is a matter of Denmark and EU law, and that we now have to make an adjustment to the Danish dividend tax following a ruling by the European Court of Justice, which has opposed Denmark. So I am confident that the draft law here has exactly the right intention and is really cut down, although the rapporteur may be right in saying that there may be imbalances in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423135936	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423135940	Thank you. I am glad that the Social Democrat rapporteur says so. Now it is the case that the model proposed here is not the only model there are other models. I admit that these are not necessarily the best models in the world, but let us soak our heads to see if there is no better model. I would like to ask the rapporteur just to address the consultation answer given by Finance Denmark. They come up with some suggestions for alternative models.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140010	I have also read with great interest the consultation answers, including those from Finance Denmark, and, as I said in my first reply, which was something that went like a thread in my rapporteur's speech, I am of course confident that the legislative proposal we are discussing here has been properly cut. However, I would like to say to the rapporteur that we can look in the ongoing legislative work to see whether there are models that can be more appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140044	The next brief remark is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140047	One of the things that, according to this bill, distorts taxation is that if you are an investment fund that invests in some Danish shares, you get 15%. tax on dividends, but if something similar had been done through Finland or Sweden, 0 per cent would have been achieved. dividend tax on. And that is probably the logical way in which taxation is being reduced and investment is going to lie down elsewhere in the future other than in Denmark. I would actually like to hear the Socialist rapporteur why it has been decided not to follow the Swedish example or the Finnish example, in which we can then adapt to EU law. Why have you chosen a model where you put 15%? tax on instead of choosing a 0 per cent. Honey, as has been done in the other countries? For what causes the imbalances is that we have chosen to do the opposite of our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140131	I am not quite sure that this way, in the ratio of 1:1, we can compare the tax situation in different countries. For the Social Democrats and for the government, it is always important that we have good framework conditions for our companies, that jobs are created. And that must also be supported by all legislation. That is why I would like to say again, as I said to the rapporteur of the Left, that I am fully confident that with this bill we will cut it right and, above all, bearing in mind that this is also an adaptation. I mean, we cannot have an issue with EU law in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140211	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140213	It is quite true that one cannot compare the countries 1:1. In Finland, corporation tax is 20%, and in Denmark it is 2%. higher. We also have a higher corporation tax than Sweden. The reason why you cannot compare it in the future is that we are now putting 15 per cent. dividend tax on top of which the other two countries have 0 per cent. So it almost goes without saying that we are really going to be a bad country to invest in, just because of the tax rules, which makes it harder for companies to raise capital. So I would like to ask whether the rapporteur will not help to consider whether we could go the other way and do the same, among other things. Sweden and Finland. I believe, moreover, that France and Belgium have also chosen the other way. So it is fair that we have to correct EU legislation, but why have we chosen to make it worse for ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140255	Well, I have great respect for the fact that we, as the various parties we are, can, of course, take different eyes on such a bill here. I believe that we in the Social Democratic Party and the Government are working 100% for our companies to have good framework conditions. We are also doing so with the tax legislation that we are adopting here in the Folketing. We have plenty of examples that we help make it good to be a Danish company. It is important that we have a good framework; it is important that we have jobs. When I look out in society when I visit the companies we all make a lot of sense of it when I talk to entrepreneurs, talk to business owners, I also think that we actually have some favourable framework conditions, including when it comes to taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140340	The next brief remark to the rapporteur is from Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140344	Thank you. I was just a little pleasantly surprised earlier, because this is also a matter of great concern to the Conservative People's Party, and I heard the rapporteur so open to looking at whether there are other models in committee work. I would just like to know if the rapporteur would confirm that the Social Democrats are willing to do so. For the Minister has been very clear that there is only one solution to this problem. So it is positive if the Social Democracy will be open in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140412	Yes, but I do not believe that the rapporteur can do anything other than notice that I say that I am absolutely convinced and I fully believe that this bill has been properly cut because, on the one hand, we do not have an outstanding issue with EU law and, on the other hand, we support the framework conditions of our companies. But, of course, we also have respect for the democratic processes, and we are all sitting in the Committee on Taxation, and we should be a fool if we could not also add to the fact that new information is available which could affect a legislative process. That's the way it is. However, as this bill stands here and now, I am of course fully confident that it is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140452	Mrs. Merete Scheelsbeck.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140454	I would just like to sign, because I think it is good that the rapporteur will be able to see whether there are other options in the committee's work. At any rate, we are very concerned that we will have every opportunity in this area examined. Because it will have a major impact on the investment culture in Denmark if we adopt what it is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140511	I believe from the outset that all parties here in the Folketing intend to create the best framework conditions for our companies and the best tax legislation. The way there can then be different, and we have here a bill that I fully trust. Creating a good framework for our businesses and creating jobs and growth that we can use for sensible financial laws is, of course, always a great goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140540	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Kim Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423140603	Thank you, Mr President. This bill contains a great many elements; it was a nice way of saying that it is a messbox, perhaps a little too much to my liking, at least there is a little too much in this bill, also because part of it is a conciliation. However, if you look at it from above, there is also a great deal that you can just say yes to, and in this way it is good enough that we also get through the legislative process quickly. In concrete terms, it is the rules on association taxation in accordance with EU law by imposing a tax liability on Danish associations of dividends, certain interest rates and royalties equivalent to the existing taxation of foreign associations. So far so good, and that's what we're for. Then it is the case that Danish UCITS with minimum taxation will have to pay a dividend tax of 15%. of dividends from Danish shares. It is a difficult pill to swallow, and we will then ask for it to be divided in committee so that we take this part for ourselves. Then there is the desire to eliminate the existing discrimination in taxation between public nursing homes and self-serving nursing homes and nursing homes. It is okay, and increasing the tax-free bottom allowance for benefits to persons from approved funds who support social and disease-fighting work is also okay, and then we come to three proposals on the mink, which is okay. We have some technical questions for this because there are some technical things that need to be understood a little better, so we will get through this in the legislative work, but as a starting point we think we can get these things right, so that is something we can ultimately vote for. All right, let us go back to what is really the stone in the shoe, and that is what we heard from the Social Democrat rapporteur and the questions that came to it. That's the stone in the shoe in this bill, that is, the fact that it is now regulated in a way, so in future it will be the case that a person who buys a share through the investment fund, let's say a Novoaktie, who pays 100 DKK. in dividends, and where you have to pay a dividend tax, which is typically DKK 27. for an ordinary small investor, the amount of tax will be higher than the person who buys the stock directly. It is really, really a pity that this is the way it works, because it is going to work in a way that scares investors away from this market, that you make it so complicated, and in fact it becomes a kind of double taxation. We understand that this has been the case since 2018 and that it is an EU judgment and we have to conform to EU judgments, but it is just wrong to do it this way, and it must be possible to do it in a way so that we do not hit small investors with double taxation. It must simply be possible to set up our system in this way, and there are some proposals from Finance Denmark which are very interesting and which I think we should discuss through, and I agree that they are general. But maybe we can soak our heads and make them a little better so we don't have to do this. After all, none of us want to have double taxation that affects small investors, because they are just some of the people who keep our business going; they are in fact some of the people we want to help with even more investment, among other things. entrepreneurs, and a whole new stock culture in Denmark. So it is a problem to do so in this way, and I would say that it is unacceptable that it is presented as if it is the only solution. But we are going to ask for it to be split up. Moreover, we would also ask for a technical review and a consultation on this part, because there are some proposals out there that might be included in the legislative work. The left is for all the other parts, but in connection with this division we will allow ourselves to be critical and review it all with amendments and, ultimately, if there is nothing else, we will do our job once we have seen the solutions that are available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423141126	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423141146	Thank you. I can, of course, start by confirming the two previous rapporteurs that this is what you can call a mixed country trade or a mess box, if you like. These are at least many different elements, from funds to minks, to nursing homes, to investment funds, to securities depositories, etc., so it's a little good from the sea, or whatever you need to call it, because you can put on a lot of predicates. I do not want to go into all of them, because some of them are also very small things, and that is why it is perhaps fair enough that they are put together in one legislative proposal, as it might also be a bit violent to have to have independent legislative proposals for all these many elements. I would like to delve the most into what is about the taxation of investment funds and UCITS, which is also what the Left was mostly referring to, where it is true that we need to be corrected in relation to EU law. We are not very happy with EU law, but if you buy the premise that we should have addressed, then I really do not think the solution is very good, because it is of course a matter of imposing a 15% dividend tax on Danish investment funds. In addition to the taxation that exists today. And once you have paid both corporation tax and dividend tax, investors in the association will subsequently have to pay their profit tax of 27 or 42 per cent. This means that it will be a fairly high tax and also a double tax, and we think that there is. That's a pretty bad way to do it. Let me give an example: Finland and Sweden, as I said, do not have this dividend tax, so if you invest in Finland, for example, there may be a profit of DKK 100, the corporation tax is 20%, and then there is DKK 80. But there's not this 5% dividend tax, so you're sitting there and you have 80 kroner. back, you can distribute to your members in the investment fund. In Denmark, on the other hand, we again have 100 kroner. in profits, a corporation tax of DKK 22, and then we're down to DKK 78, but here you're charged an additional 15% with this bill, and then you're down to $66. Back to the investors. So it's 80 kr. if you make it through Finnish shares, and it's only 66 kr. if you do it with Danish shares. Then you don't have to be a politician, a math genius or a tax expert to find out that it might well be that people chose not to invest in Danish shares. After all, it has to be a reasonably attractive company, which can justify the difference in taxation, for one to think that it is so attractive to invest in Denmark, and so this is not a good way to do it. So I recognise that it is fair that we are trying to find solutions to how to address EU legislation, but making it so unattractive to invest through Danish associations is not really a good idea, and it is further emphasised that investment funds are an excellent option, especially for small investors, who can spread the risk. If you now have huge sums of money to invest yourself or have an investment advisor on, you can invest in an association if you then spread the money out on many different stocks. So that's the product you're trying to degrade here, so I don't really think this is a good idea. So we are actually going to try to go constructively into the committee work and see if we could find, as I heard the Left saying, some other models you could do this with, because the model that has been put forward here is certainly not a good idea. Then there are a number of other measures in the draft law that we can support. This applies to equality in taxation between public and self-employed nursing homes, etc., which we can in fact support, but we would like to announce in advance that we would probably like to split up the bill because, at least as it is now, we cannot support that part of the dividend tax on our investment funds. But, of course, it may be possible to change the legislative work, but we would like to say now that a division might well come up as a wish on our part. So it should be the comments of the Danish People's Party on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423141520	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423141534	As several speakers have pointed out here, this proposal has a great many different elements, and in the SF we are largely in favour of what we have, however, a few questions on the content. One of the elements we are particularly concerned with is the proposal to harmonise taxation of Danish and foreign associations. The draft law is based on the fact that current practice is contrary to EU law. In SF, however, we are concerned to clarify how this will affect the Danish associations. Some of the points we would like to clarify in the further work on the legislative proposal are therefore which associations will be more precisely affected by the proposal here and to what extent there will be an administrative burden associated with the proposal for those associations. Another component is the proposal to exempt self-employed nursing homes and homes from the taxation of professional income, where the current rules make savings for renovation, etc. Here it is important to say that we share the Government's view that this should be done provided that any surplus remains in the institution which is itself responsible and can be used exclusively for the purposes of the institution. The draft law contains a number of other elements, including: the proposal seeks to increase the tax-free bottom allowance for benefits to persons from approved funds who support social or disease-fighting work. The proposal is not immediately considered to have any revenue implications, but will simply facilitate the work of these funds, which is, of course, positive. The SF can immediately support the bill, but, as I said before, we also have some questions and we look forward to having them answered in the further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423141705	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Here too there are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Kathrine Oldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423141722	Thank you, President. In this bill, there's a series of good and bad news. I shall start with the good ones, that is to say what we in the Radical Left are quite comfortable with and can immediately join us. This applies, among other things, to: the tax exemption for self-employed nursing homes and nursing homes; there we think it is a very good cut to put the tax exemption in such a way that the self-employed are involved. The increase in the tax-free base allowance for benefits from social funds is also true OK. with us, just as we are also in favour of the series of positive changes to tax conditions for mink growers as a result of the temporary ban. We shall then come to the bad news, which the previous rapporteurs have also spoken about. We fully recognise that this is an EU legal adjustment that we need to make. And we also think that the government's proposals on how to make a model that at least mitigates the battle a little by returning the proceeds to the associations and by releasing the non-profit associations are an okay. the way to get around by the government's proposal for a model. But I think that we simply also need to try to exhaust the alternatives in the committee's work. Well, let's try to work a little hard on the political work on this bill and make it clear whether we really have no choice in relation to this. It is certainly important for us in the Radical Left that, before we vote green for this bill, we know that we are doing it out of necessity and not out of desire. In any case, I would now like to say something more concrete. I'm curious to hear it because I couldn't immediately see it from the remarks, etc. I would like to know that in concrete terms; it is such a favourite child for the Radical Left, so we would like to know that. Then we would also like to address some of the concrete models contained in the consultation answers, in other words to the extent that it is possible. I am well aware that there are very general proposals, but let us try to see whether we can either help the consultation parties to make concrete or try to boil it down to concrete models and then make a profit calculation. It will probably be really, really important for the Radical Left to know what it costs if it is the case that we have to do something else. Because if we are now, for example... We said that instead of removing the tax on dividends, we would have to put it down. Yes, then the Conservatives would be happy, so it would cost 350 million. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. So that's why we need to figure out what it costs to make an alternative model for this if we're going to be thorough. And I also think that it would be a relief for all parties. As far as small investors are concerned, for the sake of my own educational overview, I would like to get an overview from the Ministry of Finance as to what opportunities you have as a small investor. It could be someone like myself or the tax minister with some money left over, you would like to go out and invest in Danish shares. Can we make such a note of what we really have of opportunities, and also of the fiscal consequences? I know that with the share-saving account there are some options, but what do you do if you earn more or less? Can we have such an educational overview of the conditions and opportunities for small savers? It would also be really, really nice in this context. So that's three things: can we get an overview? What does that mean for the stock savings account? And let us try to get to grips with the models and put them into practice and then calculate the proceeds in terms of what it costs to make an alternative. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423142134	Thank you, Mr Radicale, for the rapporteur's speech. And thank you for getting the platform ready for use for the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423142155	Various rapporteurs have used different words to describe this bill, but one can say that it is a very technical, but also very unhomogeneous, legislative proposal with many different elements that stick in different directions. In any case, it might be said that it would be appropriate for us to have a technical review and a discussion of it because of the high technical level of many of the elements of the draft law. There has been a lot of debate about the changes to the rules on the taxation of associations. The first part concerns the fact that foreign non-profit-making or otherwise non-profit-making associations are taxable on dividends received by Danish companies, while similar Danish associations are taxable only if they are received as part of any business activity, and here there is a change, so that the Danish associations are also taxed in the future, even if it is not only professional activities. That change is positive and we can support it. So far, so good. Then there has been a lot of dialogue about the second part, which is about Danish associations etc. is taxed at 15%. of the yield. Perhaps I have a slightly different approach to this than some of the other rapporteurs who have been on the platform, namely that the model presented to me also means that a gap is being created which is inappropriate. As I and Enhedslisten read the proposal here and it is one of the things that would also be nice to be able to look at in a technical review. If you sit in a zero tax country and own shares directly, you will have to add the 27 per cent, but if you can find an investment fund, if it is adopted as it is, you can buy through an investment fund and then tax falls from 27 to 15 per cent. I am assuming, except in the very few countries on the EU blacklist. So with what is being proposed, there is, as we read it, a gap in the tax on dividends, and with that approach, I would also say today that it must be possible to see whether we cannot find another way to do it than to make a hole in our dividend tax compared to people who own Danish shares from zero tax countries. This must be another way of complying with EU rules. There are also a few other elements in the draft law that concern the introduction of interest rate deductions in the case of investment funds if there are interest costs. Today, foreign shareholders cannot obtain interest rebates, but if you do so through an investment fund, as I and Enhedslisten read the bill. That is also something we would like to look at. There is also increased use of transparency for foreign account-leading investment funds. In general terms, when we look at these investment funds, we have a problem with transparency in what means, in the view of Enhedslisten, that we do not make sure enough to impose the necessary taxation in Denmark. And the more transparency there becomes, where the association itself or the company itself is not taxable, but where the underlying partners or participants are taxed, the more there is a risk that there will be no taxation at all. This is certainly an element that we would like to see clarified further. There are also things in the draft law that we are immediately positive about. This is true, for example. We also think that the three elements on mink seem reasonable and sensible and are positive about it. It also makes sense to look at the fact that a self-serving institution which does not draw off a fair surplus should be able to transfer less consumption from one year to another, such as ourselves. I would like to make a few comments on this subject. This then raises another discussion about the budget law, in which a small amount of spending from one year, which is being transferred to another year, cannot be used anyway, because there is a rigid budget law that makes it impossible to spend the next year, even if you have them in the same way. This raises a discussion on the revision of the budget law, but because there is a rigid budget law, surely we need to make a sensible change in relation to the self-serving institutions in the area of nursing homes. So basically, there are many positive elements in this, but as I said, we also have some things that we would like to look at in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423142656	Thank you very much to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who was finished on second. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party. It's Mrs. Merete Scheelsbeck.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423142722	Thank you for that, President. It has to be said that this bill is really a mixed land trade of various legislative changes, and I will not use my precious speaking time to list all of them, but I will just say that I think it is somewhat sloppy and that it is very problematic to mix so many very different things together in a legislative proposal. Some of the amendments tabled by the draft law are actually quite far-reaching, and I will not even have the opportunity to address all our concerns and our questions in my rapporteur's speech because of the time constraints. It also makes it very difficult for us to vote in favour of the legislative proposal, although there are elements in it that we could support. Nor do I think it is particularly appropriate for the Minister to slip three legislative amendments into an overall complex such as this one which arises from a political agreement, namely the mink agreement, of which not all parties in the Folketing are part. We will therefore propose that we divide the legislative proposal into a number of different legislative proposals, and we hope that there will be support for this in committee work. At the very least, we would like to see the part which deals with the adjustment of the rules governing the taxation of dividends from Danish shares by UCITS taken out and treated as an independent legislative proposal. It is a proposal that will have negative consequences for the Danish investment culture and for Danish companies, and we want a very thorough examination of the matter, and we think that we can best achieve that if we treat it as a separate legislative proposal. A new 15% tax. Danish equity dividends in investment funds mean that Danish investors and investment funds with Danish shares will pay approx. 11 kroner. more in tax than is the case today, for every DKK 100 that an investment fund gets in dividends for Danish shares. This is because the tax minister proposes that the dividends from Danish shares should be taxed both by distribution to the investment fund and by distribution from the fund to the investors, i.e. a totally unfair double taxation which affects ordinary Danes, who do not invest large amounts and therefore want to spread the investments through an investment fund. This also means that investors will pay more in tax in the future than if they buy the same share directly and not through an investment fund, and this will have negative consequences for the investment patterns in Denmark. If several Danes invest in single shares in order to avoid double taxation, they may be forced into more risky investments, or they may choose to drop investing altogether. At the same time, capital injections to neglected Danish companies in the stock market may be impaired. We are therefore very critical of the proposal made by the Minister. The last thing we need is to stifle the emerging Danish stock culture by introducing double taxation for ordinary Danish investors. In the Conservative People's Party, we would much rather see a solution where, instead of taxing the Danish investment funds more severely, we do not tax foreign investment funds with dividend tax. I have already asked the Minister questions about this, but the Minister does not think it is possible, and I am very surprised, because there are several independent economists who think it is possible, including the Productivity Commission, and both Danish Industry and Finance Denmark also believe that there are other possible solutions to the problem. In addition, this can also be done in other EU countries, such as the United Kingdom. Sweden and Finland, and that is why we should get to the bottom of the options for solutions other than those proposed by the government here. We therefore want the Tax Committee to organise an expert consultation with external stakeholders, in which we would like to know whether it is at all necessary legally to give a tax span to Danish investors. I know that Denmark has been successful in Østre Landret that Danish investment funds can keep their free cards without it being contrary to EU law, and we would really like to wait and see what the Supreme Court will come up with before we make a decision on that basis. We also want to know how our Nordic neighbours and other EU countries have found a solution to the challenge, and finally we want to see whether foreign investment funds can be exempted from the dividend tax and, of course, to have the socio-economic consequences examined. This will dress us all much better when it comes to making the right decision. In the Conservative People's Party, we are at least very concerned that we are safeguarding a healthy and dynamic culture of investment in our country. It is a great pleasure for Danish business and thus also for Danish jobs, Danish prosperity and not least Danish well-being. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423143218	We thank the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next to speak is the Secretary of State for Taxation, who is to be put on the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423143241	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for the debate and for the receipt of this rather comprehensive bill; I shall be the first to admit that. It is a legislative proposal which also has, one might say, many different elements. As I have said, this is a legislative proposal that ranges quite far from a number of EU legal issues to be resolved, to special rules relating to the temporary ban on the holding of mink, tax exemptions on self-employed nursing homes and nursing homes, an increase in a bottom-up deduction for benefits from social funds and reporting rules for dividends from shares. The bill contains two elements that ensure that the Danish rules comply with EU law. Firstly, the bill provides for the introduction of tax liability for Danish associations when they receive Danish share dividends, interest and exchange gains on controlled debt and royalty. A change in the rules is necessary, as the Danish associations have had more favourable rules on this point than foreign associations, and this is simply contrary to EU law. The Government is aware that in particular the proposal for tax liability of Danish share dividends may affect parts of the Danish association's life, where the activities have been based on dividends of shares. Since this is a matter of duty, where, as I said, the proposed tax liability is seen as the only option, if we are at the same time to safeguard the Danish source tax on foreign dividends and, at the same time, it should not be possible for foreign investors to avoid the Danish dividend tax in order to invest only in an association. However, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Ministry, we have found a balanced model whereby associations whose funds can be used exclusively for general welfare or otherwise non-profit-making proposals are exempted from taxation. That is the balance we have found. This applies both to Danish and foreign associations of general interest, and in this respect it is important to be aware that it must be an association which meets the requirements to be exclusively of general interest or of general interest, and that this is, of course, subject to control by the tax authorities. As the draft law shows, this amendment results in an additional revenue of 20 million. kr. In this respect, I and the government, as the Socialist rapporteur suggested, are, of course, open to how we can ensure that these funds can be traced back to society. Together with those parties that want to support the bill, I think we should engage in a dialogue on how this can be done. Secondly, there is one element that concerns compliance with EU law, and that is the part of the draft law which, as I said, provides for the introduction of a tax liability for Danish UCITS with minimum taxation when they receive Danish share dividends. A change in these rules has also been required and is required, as a ruling by the European Court of Justice has, as I have said, opposed Denmark. Here, too, we would have liked to see it not necessary to tighten the taxation of Danish investors, but here too it is important to secure Danish dividend tax. In addition, the reality is that it is also limited how much Danish investors use UCITS to invest in Danish shares. The Government also proposes a number of changes to existing tax rules to take account of very special circumstances arising from the temporary ban on mink teams in Denmark. It is proposed that all transfers of mink farms and mink-dependent secondary activities, as stated by the temporary ban on the holding of mink, may be carried out without an increase in the tax under the Bombage Act when the company is acquired at a reduced rate of tax. In addition, it is proposed that the mink growers and the mink-dependent follow-up industries should have an extra year to start a new business in the enterprise scheme without any savings in profits being made for tax purposes. Finally, it is proposed to introduce a reverse charge for VAT when, as a result of the temporary ban on the holding of mink, a State authority has to pay the mink growers and the companies in the mink-dependent follow-up business for any VAT-related supplies. Conversely, the person liable for payment of VAT means that it will not, as is normally the case, be the undertaking receiving the payment which has to pay the VAT to the tax administration, but the paying state authority. It may seem rather strange that the State should pay VAT to itself, but the aim of the proposal is to prevent the VAT payable by the State from being used to pay other creditors. It could, for example, be done. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. At the same time, the proposal means that the mink farmers and the followers are not left with a VAT debt which may later be difficult to pay, and then the state avoids any loss of VAT revenue. These are, in the view of the government, important adjustments which ensure that the ban on mink teams imposed does not result in unintended and unreasonable consequences for the mink growers concerned. The government also wants to increase the current tax-free bottom allowance of DKK 10,000. for benefits to persons from funded funds supporting social and disease-fighting work. The proposal will ensure that the deduction is carried out at a level which the government considers appropriate and reasonable and will help to give the funds better opportunities to support social and disease-fighting work as well. In addition, the Government proposes that Danish CSDs be required to report on dividends of shares registered in the CSD, even if the shares are held in a depository facility held by a foreign bank. The proposal ensures that the Danish Tax Office receives reports of the dividends regardless of whether the shares have been transferred from a Danish or foreign bank. In addition, the government proposes a tax exemption for self-employed nursing homes and nursing homes, thus eliminating the existing discrimination in taxation between public nursing homes and self-employed nursing homes and nursing homes. Thank you for today's debate. There has been a desire to divide up the proposal. We'd be happy to do that. There have also been requests for a technical review. We are happy to take part in this. We admit that this is a major technical step, and hopefully we can shed some light on the questions raised here today in the further examination of the proposal by the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144005	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144009	Thank you. I would like to sign for the Minister's final remarks on splitting the proposal and on the fact that we can have a technical review. We are also putting forward a hearing because there are quite a lot of consultation parties out there who would also like to comment on the amendments, and that is because this bill has come up a little quickly on the consultation part, isn't it? It was stressful a little, and so something can easily come about that we need to hear these parties about in connection with this legislative process. But I have to hear the Minister about what has emerged in the course of today's debate, namely that there could be other models. Is the minister closed to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144102	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144103	If there are uncertainties linked to the model that the government considers to be the right one, then we are happy to answer questions. This is something that the Treasury and the administration have been working on for quite a long time. It is, after all, a judgment that is well behind, and that is why it is something that has been working on for quite a long time. It is true that there have been several different tracks, if you like, we have tried them, and therefore the view is that this is the right model. It is true that the proposed taxation of the Danish UCITS with, as I said, minimum taxation will mean taxation of both the institution and the investor. With these investors, and I think that is part of the debate, what is being taxed will only be net profits. What you have to be aware of when you talk about this and the alternatives that are there is that you run the risk of getting into a situation where what you want to remove is the entire tax on dividends, for example. If you follow any of what the Conservatives have said and it costs approx. 350 million kr. a year, if you do. But we are happy to shed some light on why we have chosen this model, and we can certainly do that in the further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144219	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144222	Thank you. For the Left, it is very important that we also live up to it. By the way, there is a 2018 ruling; we had it already in the previous government, and that is something that the minister has inherited as part of the portfolio of cases. So we acknowledge that. We want to help solve it, but we will only be able to do so if the Minister can also move on some of this, i.e. if we find a good model. And that's why I'm asking you that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144249	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144250	Well, as sir. Kim Valentin knows, I always like to engage in good discussions that can make things better. And if there is, of course, we'll be happy to look at it. We believe that what we have found is the right thing to do, and of course we have been through the things that have been put in place as a consultation response. I just think that, before you choose which way you want to go down, you should at least be aware that one of the roads you typically end up with is a dispute with the tax on dividends for and by foreign investors. And it's an expensive round. I just think you should keep that in mind before you start this discussion. There are others in the hearings who are not so aware of this. You understand that. But I just think that if you want to, at least make sure you have an explanation of where that bill is to be paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144340	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. The debate is closed. I would suggest that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144405	The debate is open, and first of all I would like to welcome the tax minister to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144413	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution we are now considering means that we must deal with the tax treatment of slaughter costs in accordance with religious regulations. The Danish People's Party, the authors of the motion for a resolution, wishes to abolish the possibility for companies to deduct costs of halal control, halal certifications and other similar costs. The proposal is therefore aimed at requiring the government to submit a legislative proposal that, from 1 January 2022 onwards, companies cannot deduct the costs of halal control, halal certifications and other similar costs. First of all, let me make it clear that I find it difficult to see the need to make the tax rules for companies more complicated by removing companies' right to deduct the costs of halal licences and halal certifications, which are, of course, at issue here. These expenses are treated in fiscal terms, as are other operating expenses relating to slaughter in accordance with religious regulations. A little about the rules as they stand today: in the legislation we have here, in other words tax legislation, it is a general principle that companies can deduct, when calculating taxable income, expenses which have been used during the year to acquire and secure and also to maintain income, including costs associated with compliance with specific standards and religious regulations. The costs of controls and authorisations incurred by Danish slaughterhouses in order to comply with, for example, this type of religious regulations, e.g.: Muslim halal or Jewish kosher, concerns the acquisition of income by companies, and such expenditure must therefore be deducted in accordance with the applicable rules when calculating taxable income. Those were the rules. The Government's view is that the abolition of the right to deduct costs of halal costs, as has already been shown, would be contrary to the general tax principles that companies have deducted from their operating costs. A change in the law to abolish the right of deduction for halal costs will, of course, include: increase the costs of slaughterhouses in exporting meat products to the Middle East, thereby reducing the competitive position of Danish slaughterhouses compared to slaughterhouses in other countries, and this can reduce employment in Danish slaughterhouses and thus also increase the volume of animal transport abroad. It is not government policy to contribute to an increase in corporate costs if they want to export meat products to Muslim countries or sell these products to particular religious groups in this country. So I also have the personal view that I actually think it is very good that our tax system should be as simple and transparent as possible, and it should not be the tax rules that should end up standing in the way of Danish companies being able to export meat products to other countries, because necessary operating costs cannot then be deducted. So, against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144742	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144745	I don't really know what to say to that. Either the Minister has not given much attention to what halal is, or it is a student helper or someone else who has written the speech. After all, this is not just about slaughterhouses, because we now have a case going on in a factory that makes pumps, and it is toothpaste, and it is all sorts of things that are halal certified. Halal means it's clean that you can eat it if you're a true Muslim. So that's all this is about, and it's not just abattoirs. I also understand that this is a large number, because you cannot get that information. After all, I have asked the tax minister how much money is actually being spent on this, and there is no answer to that. However, these are so large figures that, if it cannot be deducted, it will pose enormous challenges for Danish slaughterhouses in relation to their exports and their competitiveness. So we have at least the Minister's word that it is a very, very large figure that we are talking about, which here becomes deductible. But the next question you can ask is that amu money is also being spent when these people are going to courses. We have just had an example with a company where there are 125 people who have been on halal courses to get to work there. Is it also deductible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144852	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144854	I think that the Minister for Employment should be asked about this. I am dealing with the tax rules and what I have said here is that the government cannot support this proposal. We can't do that, too. for the reason that this will complicate the rules for companies. Religious regulations also apply to other religious minorities, which is why it is quite fair that the Danish People's Party has its views. I have expressed the position of the government here, and it is that we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144927	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423144929	I do not think it is right, however, for a minister to take the floor for a motion for a resolution and not to sit down at all on the subject of the motion for a resolution. You talk about abattoirs alone. But this is not just about slaughterhouses, because it is about halal certifications of companies in Denmark. We just saw that there was a citizen, an employee, a 62-year-old threw down in Nakskov who was fired because he wouldn't sign that pork is a polluting source. Otherwise the company could not be halally certified, and that is where the government is now saying that it must also be deductible to be allowed to have these attitudes and take them into Danish jobs. Can the Minister not see that this is a challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145006	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145008	In other words, the comments on the proposal state that the authors of the proposals want companies not to be able to deduct costs of halal costs from the company's tax accounts. This concerns the tax minister's area of responsibility and therefore the tax minister answers tax-related questions. When it comes to labour market issues, to business, to business, to business and other matters, Mr. René Christensen quite well where to address it. So it is not right to accuse me of giving a speech written by a student assistant. Because this is a well-prepared speech which I have given here and which answers precisely the questions as to why the government does not agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145051	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145117	Thank you for the floor. The proposers want to change tax legislation by removing the possibility for companies to obtain deductions from costs of halal control and halal certification as operating costs. In the Social Democratic Party we see no need to make the tax rules for companies more complex by agreeing to remove the right to deduct certain operating costs rather than others. At the same time, it is a fundamental principle of the Danish tax legislation, which the Minister of Taxation also excellently explained that companies have the right to deduct expenses which are essential for ensuring and maintaining their production and income. The costs which Danish slaughterhouses had to bear in order to comply with religious regulations such as Muslim halal or Jewish kosher relate to the income acquisition of companies, and therefore they can be deducted. In addition to violating this principle of tax law, the motion for a resolution will also increase the costs for slaughterhouses to export meat products to the Middle East, thereby reducing the competitiveness of Danish slaughterhouses. It will ultimately cost good Danish jobs in the food cluster, which is strongly represented outside the large cities, and it will also increase the volume of animal transport abroad. And here we have a possible economic-regional battle side in the proposal. For this reason too, the Social Democrats cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145312	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left, please stand by. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145336	Thank you, Mr President. This proposal is that some expenses in companies should no longer be deductible. In the Left, we are very much in favour of creating fair conditions of competition; we have rules that ensure that we can get to export markets so that we compete on equal terms with all sorts of others out there. If we start pointing fingers at somebody or moving deductions in some direction, we will immediately begin to destroy the business conditions of our otherwise skilled companies. We are in favour of as few burdens and as little trouble as possible. This proposal goes in the other direction, which is why we simply cannot accept it. It is a proposal that we will vote against.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145511	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145515	I understand that the Left has laid completely on the stomach for Islam. It is actually the case that there are quite a lot of costs that we can hear now, both from the Social Democrats and from the Left, by being halal certified if you cannot withdraw it. In fact, it is the Muslim League that the money goes to. And it is also true, as has been said, that it requires substantial investment. Yeah, and that's one of them. halal fees that make it possible to build mosques, also in Denmark. That's what these companies pay for, and also the customers who buy the products. This isn't a ban on being halal certified. That's why we try it another way. This is all about not being deductible. We have had that discussion many times, whether or not we should have a ban; we have had a discussion on labelling. Now we are discussing: should money really go from welfare to Muslim faith and Muslims? Because that's what's happening here. After all, it is money from companies that they pay in taxes that will go into the Community's treasury and that we could spend on welfare, education and other things. Now they're being pulled off. Does the Left really think this is a sensible idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145620	Thank you. And thank you to the questioner for the question. I can repeat what I said before, namely that it is really important for the Left that we create level playing field, i.e. the same conditions of competition for everyone. And that is the case, whatever it is, when you are slaughtering for as long as, of course, you comply with the rules for slaughter and, incidentally, also with the rules for animal welfare and a lot of other things that, in general, have nothing to do with the tax rules. So if it's tax rules, we're talking about taxes, and that's what I'm saying here, yes, we're in favour of people getting a deduction. And then there has to be consistency in it, no matter what. It creates fair conditions of competition for everyone. It helps our export companies. Of course it has to be that you also have deductions for these types of expenses.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145715	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145717	Part of being a halal certified company, we can understand now, is also that the employees are going on a course. In that course, the employees must also answer questions in a form. In that form they have to answer correctly, otherwise the company cannot be halal certified. That's where they're supposed to be. reply that pork is a source of pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145748	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145751	I mean, I think it's important that they go on a course so that they can carry out the slaughter in the right way. And if people are then asked afterwards to verify that they have been on a course to be able to do it in a certain way in a slaughterhouse, then that's fine. And then I don't have to point my finger at whether it's one or the other or the third way you do it. However, I think that the rapporteur is slightly confusing the debate by bringing that argument of pork into this debate. This has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145827	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423145852	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Then we shall debate halal again. We have done so many times. And in terms of the crucial role that our food plays in relation to the climate crisis, in relation to the biodiversity crisis, and in relation to the massive problems of animal welfare, the role that our food plays in relation to future epidemics, how much of our land area it absorbs, I think it is quite wild how much time we spend in here to debate halal meat and other halal products. But please don't do this. That is probably because some parties are more concerned with identity policy than they are with the climate disaster and the biodiversity crisis. I am not surprised, of course, that the DF is making this proposal, but I am rather surprised that the authors of the motion believe that we in Christiansborg should, in this way, go in and interfere in the costs incurred by the companies. There are many products in which some people don't value the product or even value the product negatively, as Dansk Folkeparti does here with halal products, but that doesn't mean that we here from Borgen are starting to go in and decide that the operating costs cannot be deducted from the production of those products. We allow companies to have the operating costs that they now have, and then they can deduct them, and I think that is actually an okay and sensible principle. The SF cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150017	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150020	It's just that the SF is saying that from in here we have to let companies deduct what they want and that we should not interfere with it, but does it also apply to green taxes? Because this is an area in which the Danish Parliament imposes a large number of taxes and where it is said to the companies that if you go this way, you can deduct more than if you go another way, because they shouldn't hurt, and they shouldn't use this kind of energy and everything else. Does it also apply now, that is to say, that policy should not be pursued in this way, in relation to the way in which society should go through deduction and the possibility of deduction? That would certainly have to be a new policy if that were the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150050	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150052	It's actually a little different. For example, if you make a general CO2 2 has fought for. But we are not going in and saying that there are individual products here. For example: We could go in and say that beef should not be withdrawn, because it is very climate-torn. I believe that this creates a very complex tax system and I do not think it is a sensible way of dealing with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150118	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150119	But when we talk about a green setting, you go in and talk specifically about CO 2 So both are two specific things. Then there's just something SF doesn't like, and something SF likes. That's fair enough. But to make it a matter of principle, that is to say the fact that the Folketing does not start on any specific things and says that there may be deductions or not deductions on those things, I think is a dangerous way to go down. And there are many, many examples that you actually do from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150155	I think that was a rather messy comment, and I do not really know whether there really was a question in it. I do not think it is sensible to go in here with such specific products and choose that companies should then not be able to withdraw them. That's kind of just what I was trying to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150210	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Kathrine Olldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150225	Thank you, President. What many hours we spend in the Assembly Hall discussing halal. I very much agree with the SF rapporteur that it would be interesting to use them on some real problems instead. However, we must of course take it seriously when one party makes another proposal on halal. I myself have had the pleasure of discussing this both from a foreign policy point of view, from a food policy point of view and now even for the third time. I don't know about the third time, but it may now be possible to convince DF that this is a dead babe. Because, of course, Danish companies, when they have the cost of their production, have the opportunity to deduct this, and of course they do, among other things. export considerations, which the rapporteur of the Left so wisely explained. For us in the Radical Left, it's really, really interesting to discuss this from a fiscal angle. I personally find this interesting. I would like to extend a cadeau to my colleagues in the field of taxation in order to be objective. I think this is the first time that we have a very, very factual discussion about halal, i.e. what it really means for Danish companies. Of course, the proposers are right that this is not just about slaughterhouses. It is about halal products in general from toothpaste to table chairs and desks etc. But it is also about the fact that the costs of halal certification in a Danish company are completely equal to the costs you have of driving on the recycling site; the costs you have if you have to repair your printer; the costs you have of all sorts of activities that make your business work at all. So, of course, there shouldn't be a special rule exactly on this corner. Why would there be such a thing in the world? So it's gonna be a triple no. It is a 'no' for the first time and a 'no' for the second time and now a 'no' for the third time from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150420	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments on this. By the way, I don't think this is halal, because I think there's alcohol in it. The next honourable Member, we want to look at the platform, is Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150443	Thank you very much, Mr President. From Enhedslisten's side, we would very much like to look at the possibilities for using deductions. We think in many ways that the deduction rules are too lenient. We see that deduction rules can be used for multinational companies to pay zero or almost zero dollars in tax year after year. So it is certainly not because there is nothing that can be looked at in the area of deductions, including interest relief, which can be obtained by means of internal loans in a multinational group, where interest payments can then go to a low-tax country where the parent company is located, while the interest deduction can then be taken in a country such as Denmark where there is a high tax in which one can then be deducted. But we cannot support this proposal at all, because it is just another proposal in the series of proposals from the Danish People's Party, which is about a perpetual chasing of Muslims, and now it has to be taken on the Committee on Taxes. This time the wild halal hunt then goes beyond Danish export companies, which are to export meat to Muslim markets, and which are now not to be deducted for entirely legitimate operating costs according to the Danish People's Party. This is operating expenditure in line with everyone else, and that is why it is not comparable to expenditure on representation costs, as is written in the B proposal. It is precisely operating costs. You can have a production running without eating business associates. It also seems to us mysterious that only expenditure relating to halal is looked at, rather than other religious certifications. I assume that this proposal is actually based on DF's antipathy against Muslims and not so much else, which is why it will be a resounding no on the part of Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150650	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150706	Thank you for that, President. Dansk Folkeparti wants companies not to be able to deduct the costs of halal costs from the company's tax accounts. For us in the Conservative People's Party, this is about business policy. According to Section 6 of the Tax Act. 1, the taxable income may be deducted from expenditure used during the year to obtain, secure and maintain the income of the undertaking. This motion for a resolution will limit these possibilities, and it will therefore be a real increase in taxes for Danish companies which make use of it. Halal certification is a very common production cost for business. It is a standard that needs to be approved in order to be able to sell its product to the markets that want halal. If we go down this road, it can have consequences for Denmark's ability to attract and maintain companies, and we would be very sorry about that, and it can quickly become a slippery slope. Against this background, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150815	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150819	I think that's quite interesting. This means that the Conservatives think it is good and it is important that when companies are halal certified, because they will still be able to get away from that they will still be able to run their business and be halal certified with this proposal. something like the Muslim World League, so help finance mosque constructions around the world and also in Denmark. That is what the Conservatives support: that it should remain that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150849	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150851	The Conservative People's Party is very concerned that we have a single tax system and that the Danish companies have some good conditions and have the opportunity to deduct the costs and that we should not have all sorts of different special considerations and specific decisions taken here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150912	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150913	That is interesting; it is nice when the rapporteurs speak plainly. The Conservative People's Party would rather the money go from the welfare society and the Danes and be transferred to the Muslim Brotherhood. That is what we can hear here from the speaking chair of the Folketing, and it is of course interesting in relation to the debate we have elsewhere on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150933	I now think that the rapporteur for the DF puts a few words in my mouth, which I have not said. It is just very important for the Conservative People's Party that we have some good conditions for our companies, some good conditions for competition, and that we do not create so many barriers that companies and jobs move out of our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423150951	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423151002	In New Citizens we are very concerned that the Danish companies have some good framework conditions in order to be able to run their businesses. That is why we want to lower the electricity tax; that is why we want to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel; that is why we want to eliminate corporation tax. We will help Danish companies in a large number of areas so that their competitive conditions are improved and become far, far better than they are at present. It is also such a thing as a reduction in capital taxation, which will allow more companies to grow, especially entrepreneurship. But that doesn't mean that you have to have completely carte blanche that there are no values in relation to how Danish society should be organized when you talk about tax payments. We have that in a large number of areas, and we certainly have a position on this in the New Citizens' Party too. That is why we think it is an interesting proposal from the Danish People's Party that we are positive about. We also find it interesting to look at what the amount is behind this. I think it is a completely relevant agenda to find out how much money this is really about. Therefore, in committee we would like to have an estimate of how many jobs the government estimates it will cost if you do this, what it will mean for bnp and all sorts of other things. Because, on the one hand, it cannot be said that this is something that will have great, great significance for companies and for their ability to sell and operate, and that they will be dismissing employees and, on the other hand, to say that it is an insignificant thing. The two things are simply not connected. Therefore, I think we should have taken a fundamental look at this and look at what the figures behind it are, and then we hope that the Danish People's Party will perhaps be in favour of an amendment which will ensure that this does not become more expensive for companies in general. However, going in and financing that people and companies want a halal certification through a deduction, we are absolutely not in favour of in New Citizens. That is why we welcome this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423151202	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423151205	I would very briefly like to acknowledge the positive approach to the proposal. It is interesting now that the rapporteur has also been here throughout the debate that you can hear from both the government and from the Left, which is a former government party, that this is a lot of money, that it is a great deal of money that is deducted from taxes here and that it will have a significant impact on companies. It also tells us that there is a lot of money being transferred in halal fees and in halal certifications to the Muslim Brotherhood. If the rapporteur is not left with the feeling that it seems a little strange that the Minister can stand on the floor of the Parliament and say so, but that when you ask some questions in writing, you get the answer back that you cannot count it. But the Minister knows that at least, because the Minister has been standing here today and saying that this will mean the loss of Danish jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423151250	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423151251	Yeah, that's right. And I'd say I'm wondering if you don't have these numbers. If you have the figures, they must of course be made available to the Folketing, and if you have not, I think we should have found a way of calculating it so that there is transparency about it. It must be for everyone's benefit and in everyone's interest to know how much money is actually spent on financing Islamic communities around the world, and if there are no figures, we must ask the Minister to give an answer as to why this statement cannot be made and what technical restrictions are on it. To me, frankly, that sounds like a bad excuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423151324	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur for the new citizens. The next one is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423151345	Thank you for that and also thank you for the debate. After all, some have said that this is the third time we have seen it, and this is probably more about Muslims and Islam than it is about fiscal policy. And I guess some of that's true. It's probably a combination of both. There is no doubt that the Danish People's Party is pricked by the developments that we see, the way we see Islam constantly getting their way in. The last thing we have seen now is a large factory with 125 employees down in Nakskov, where all employees have had to attend halal courses in order for the company to be halal certified. They make pumps and other things, and it also shows that when you have been on a course, you must of course prove that you have also understood what it is. And there you have to fill out a questionnaire and sign what may be polluting in connection with production. Could it be dust and shit? Could it be pork? Could it be plastic? Could it be something else? So we have to say that pigmeat is a polluting factor in a company. Then you can discuss whether you can have liver pie in the food package. Can you wear a piece of ham when you're sitting down in your lunch room? No, you probably can't, because then you touched it before you go back into production. So it's a slippery slippery slope, and then it's even deductible. The companies can send these people off on a course, and then they can deduct it from taxes. We're making fun of our own money. And what happens when they get halal certified? Every time they sell a pump, there's a small charge on it, and then what happens? Then it goes out to the Islamic brotherhood, and then they can build some mosques, and then they can fight about it out in the municipalities. We're a joke. That is why I do not understand why we are not doing anything here, because this does not prevent companies from being halal-certified even if we would like to see it. That does not prevent them from being halal certified, but that it should also be deductible is foolish. All parties are running around fighting for the tight agenda, but when it comes down to it, there are really only two parties who dare to take this debate, and it is New Civil and Danish People's Party, and then it is not really anymore. Is this a tough debate? Yes, it is. Does it have consequences to adopt such a proposal here? Yes, it has. Are we willing to do that? Yes, we are, and we are, because this means something. What's it say in 3 years in the course certificate they're gonna sign? "Stening women out in the world isn't so bad anyway" "It's just a piece of paper, please just tick the column too. We accept that as well. It is constantly moving in the wrong direction, which is why we believe that we should at least start by saying that it should not be welfare crowns that go to finance these things, because it is today, because it is an expense that is deducted from taxes, and when you deduct it from taxes, you do not pay it in taxes, and thus the welfare society misses that money. That is why we do not understand that both the bourgeois parties and the Social Democrats in particular are so strongly rejecting this, rather than entering into a sensible debate about whether we could adapt it to whether we could do it in a different way and how we ensure that there are no welfare crowns to build mosques around the world. We had actually hoped that we could have a debate on this with the tax minister too. We couldn't. But I would like to say that, in the course of the committee procedure, we will of course use this motion for a resolution to examine a number of other things as well. It is true, as the Minister of Taxation says, that this is not his area, and it is quite fair that you should not answer it. But when you send 125 people on a course, is it also an amu course? So, do we put even more tax dollars into this Islamic machine that works on the companies? Unfortunately, I think we will experience that. Then I have had a good experience today, and it is that the Minister has been able to shed light on the fact that this is very, very large amount of money and that it will have major consequences for Danish companies if you cannot deduct the costs. I have personally asked several questions to the Ministry of Taxation, also under successive ministers, and been told that this cannot be determined. That is the way it is in the machine, and you cannot see that, because not all companies have open accounts. But you have to remember that what is in this is that it is not just about slaughterhouses. It's about everything else, too. It's packaging, it's cosmetics, that's all. It's construction that's starting to be halal certified. And can you imagine whose large public buildings are about to be halal certified? Then it's right, a lot of millions of dollars maybe at each building. And then you have to say, it doesn't matter, it's just a little paper. No. It means a lot to me. We must reject it, and we do so in the Danish People's Party. And we're glad we have a little bit of support, but we're a little disappointed that the tight rhetoric that runs in many parties doesn't last longer than the reading letters. It won't hold when we get to the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423151845	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210423151901	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday 26 April 2021 at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
