ParlaMint-DK_20210427130023	The meeting is open. Member of the Folketing Jens Rohde has informed me that from 27 April 2021 he represents the Christian Democrats, thereby fulfilling Parliament's Rules of Procedure definition of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130048	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130056	Thank you for that, President. Fortunately, we are well in the process of reopening our society. It is going well, spring is here, and the Danes support testing and coronapas as effective and yet necessary protection against the infection. More than a fifth of the population have now been vaccinated with at least the first vaccine stick, and it is more than 1.2 million people, and thousands of Danes are vaccinated every day. It is precisely because of everything we can enjoy right now that we also need and have the opportunity to look further ahead. I hope and I believe that we can increasingly return to normal conditions, because things are going well in Denmark. As can be seen from the broad framework agreement we have drawn up with 9 of the Danish Parliament's parties, we agree to return to a normalised everyday life when the vaccine plan is fully rolled out. At the same time, it is uncertain how the pandemic develops in the years to come, and therefore it is an important task both for the government and for the Folketing to show what can be called due diligence. We need to prepare for how to deal with the corona in the medium term, both in terms of health and the economy, and how to avoid new decommissionings of our society. I will focus on a crucial part of that task. We must actively address the fundamental weaknesses of vaccine preparedness, which the pandemic has unfortunately exhibited. The government wants us in Denmark to be able to both vaccinate and re-vaccine the Danish population when necessary, and therefore we work together with the Danish Parliament's parties to actively and broadly strengthen the Danish vaccine response. A vaccine response is not just about health policy, it is about security policy, there are major geopolitical interests at stake, and it is about development policy, in other words, being able to share vaccines and show solidarity with all those parts of the world that cannot afford to buy them themselves. Of course, we cannot leave vaccine diplomacy to Europe's ideological competitors. In other words, we must be independent, because security of supply is absolutely essential. That is why it is also our aim to establish a vaccine production in Denmark that will ensure that we have enough vaccines for our own population in the future, but also to be able to actively participate in the European infrastructure and to fill out the gaps that are global or at least some of them. Of course, this is a major decision, and it requires great reflection, both on technology and on economics. If we are to invest in vaccine production in Denmark, it must of course be in the vaccines that are based on the most promising technology in relation to the mutations that may become part of the future picture. That is why we must work very closely with industry. If we take this right approach, including from a broader economic and health policy perspective, there will be many advantages for Denmark in getting a production for this. Specifically, the government's proposal is that a collaboration be established with a commercial partner on vaccine production on Danish soil. I am convinced that Denmark will be an attractive country to cooperate with, because we have a very strong pharmaceutical industry, high credibility, a skilled healthcare system we are through digitised, and we have a very strong tradition of public and private cooperation. The government would very much like and very quickly take the next steps towards an invitation to tender, and therefore in a few days' time an official market consultation will be launched. The market consultation should clarify which companies may be interested in this work, as well as the requirements, both technologically and economically, to be imposed in relation to companies. The idea is for the supply to start before the summer so that hopefully the first part of the production can take place next year. Of course, we are going to have ongoing discussions with the Danish Parliament on this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130459	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. Then we go to the question round. First, it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130508	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister. I'll start somewhere else. Foreign policy will not be relaxed, and benefits will not be increased and benefits will not be reduced. It was such a relatively bombastic statement, a fairly clear quote, and it is, of course, a quote from the Prime Minister from before we had a parliamentary election last time. Then, last week, with the help of its supporters, the government decided once again to give 2,000 kroner. tax-free every month to unemployed immigrants. It is a relaxation of foreign policy. It's an increase in benefits. Why doesn't the government stand by what they said before the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130558	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130601	As a Social Democrat, I am convinced that people must work. And having a job has a value in itself, and you have to do everything you can as a citizen at all in order to support yourself and your family. This applies to all of us, but this applies in particular to people coming from outside. And one of the biggest and most serious mistakes made in integration policy in Denmark is the acceptance that everyone has not been asked to contribute to this society once they have come here. That is why we remain convinced that the benefits in Denmark should not be increased. We have some challenges about child poverty, about which I believe we need to be open and honest, and this has been so tried in cooperation with some of the parties of the Folketing in the form of a temporary swelling of the children's cheque. However, when it comes to benefits at all, it will not be our recommendation that they should be raised in general. On the other hand, it will be our very clear recommendation that those people who, for various reasons, do not get a link with the labour market quickly should in future contribute a 37-hour duty in order to be able to receive a benefit in Denmark at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130709	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130710	That is something we have proposed on the Left side, and it is fine if the government will also move down that road. It's just the opposite of what you do at the moment. It is simply the opposite. Last week it was said that dear friends, here we have a group of unemployed immigrants, and you will have 2,000 kroner. extra tax-free it is such an average consideration; some get more, some get less • every month. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130742	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130743	I think it is fair when we talk about services, we have a look at both justice and duty, and it is important that it should pay off to work, while at the same time we have a look at it, that there may be children who are in a difficult situation that we must try to counter. The government has set up a Services Commission. It's gonna hold on to its work soon. And that is where I hope that we can reach an agreement across the political middle about what the future system of benefits will look like, so that when you come to Denmark you not only receive a benefit, as has been done in the course of successive governments for too many years, but are met with some very, very cash demands for work and thus a duty to contribute to Danish society. I hope the Left will be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130829	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130831	We would very, very much like to be involved in making cash demands, but what the government is doing now is giving a cash benefit that is in fact the opposite. That is exactly the opposite of making demands. A place where you also do the opposite of what you said is something that plagues the people who live in Bording in Central Jutland. Because there's an exit center called Kærshovedgård. When we were in government, we had a proposal. It was criticized a great deal. It was called symbol politics by people who swam around the island. It was about creating an exit center on the island of Lindholm in Stege Bay. It didn't happen, and it didn't happen. Therefore, people are in Bording and are insecure, and 59 charges have simply been filed against persons from the exit center Kærshovedgård in the last 3 months. Most recently, masked people have cut a hole in the fence and have come out of this exit center to create insecurity in the community. That is simply completely unacceptable. So it could be great if we have not spent all the money on giving higher benefits to unemployed immigrants or something, that, from the government's point of view, we gave an answer to what we are going to do about this. When are plans to be presented for an extra exit centre? And why on earth was it that Lindholm was not just maintained?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130945	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427130947	First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Left for including this aspect of the refugee and alien debate in the public debate that is now, of course, about many other things at the moment. But it is true that if we pursue a policy that is too lenient, there will also be a great many people who do not have a basis for residence here and who therefore have to be rejected and subsequently sent out. And we have the problem in Denmark that a number of citizens who do not have a legal basis to be in Denmark do not leave themselves when we ask them to do so. That is why we have to have exit centres. And there are some problems around Kærshovedgård, also serious problems, and I think it is a pity for the local people who are paying the price for a failed refugee and immigrant policy in Danish society. That is why we also come from the government with a new proposal for an exit centre before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131043	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. The question is closed. And we're just gonna have to clean up, so we're gonna make sure it's nice and clean for mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131107	Thank you, President, and thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. And don't worry, I'll get a haircut tomorrow. That's where I could get some time in line. Thank you to Mathilde, because I'm looking forward to it. I'd like to continue to talk about this with Kærshovedgård. For now the Prime Minister says that she thinks it is a pity for the residents who are around Kærshovedgård and the problems you experience with criminals. In other words, we are talking about people who are on tolerated, who are at Kærshovedgård, and who, in the past, have really committed serious crime in Danish society, who have nothing to do here and should disappear out of the country. But in the meantime, they're at Kærshovedgård. And what has the Prime Minister promised them? She promised them, so she promised the area that this was changed. May I just remind you that in November 2018 we are well ahead of the parliamentary elections... the Social Democratic Party promised a so-called security package. It was on the basis of the former minister of the region, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, said to DR News: "We hear there are attacks in the local Facts, increased crime and insecurity about letting children and young people go out at night. I don't think it's fair that we sit in here at Christiansborg and make a decision that is so violently affecting a community, and then just turn our backs and pretend like nothing. ▪ That's what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, and now the Prime Minister says here at the end of April 2021 that it is a pity for the citizens of the area. So why in the world has nothing been done about it from the time you gained power in June 2019 and here until the end of April in 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131240	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131242	Yes, first of all, I would like to welcome from the upcoming hairdressing time that I was beginning to worry about whether the chairman of the Danish People's Party did not know that we had reopened the hairdressers. But it is good that there is also a solution to that problem. Well, the problem with this exit center is obviously. And I think we share the basic analysis: when you are not going to be in Denmark, you have to leave. After all, our fundamental problem is that there are too many citizens who, when they no longer have a residence basis, do not travel voluntarily. And it does not matter whether you lose your place of residence because you no longer have to enjoy protection here, or that is because you commit crime or otherwise insult the society in which you are at present. So we are in complete agreement on the basic analysis. I must be honest in saying that, with the crisis management we have been doing for more than one year, there are, of course, tasks that we have not been able to solve within the same timeframe as we had imagined. This is one of them. But we will make our proposal before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131340	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131341	There was a former Social Democratic Prime Minister who said: 'There will be a good solution tomorrow'. And I can then rejoice about that in relation to the hair showcase, but the residents of Midtjylland cannot look forward to a good solution tomorrow; it will take a little longer. I have to say that in the proposal that the Social Democratic Party had before the elections before the residents who were in the area had to, for example, have to. are compensated if they have had falling house prices because of the crime there was. Traders and residents who were in the area were to receive subsidies to establish different forms of security in relation to the crime involved. Is there any of these many proposals that the Social Democratic Party had before?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131435	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131437	I think there is one element that we need to get into the discussion here, and that is, of course, that the problem with some of these people is that they are criminals and do not behave properly and do not respect the rules of the game that exist in Danish society, thereby undermining the society of which they are not to be a part, but which we others would like to be allowed to have in a good way. So we must not, I think, stand in Parliament for any party and claim that the problems are solved because we are moving the exit centre. I would just like to say that I think we were all in dialogue with the citizens who live in Kalvehave, as there was an idea about Lindholm; there was no local support for there being an exit centre there. I also know that there were Copenhageners who had an idea that you would then pay for buses so that those people could be allowed to take a trip to Copenhagen. There has been little support for this in Copenhagen. And this is an element of the foreign debate that we have to have, namely that there are people who come here and who use their stay in Denmark to commit crime, also really serious crime. And no matter where that exit centre is going to lie, those people are going to give the community problems; we have to be open and honest about that, because unfortunately, unfortunately, that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131546	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131547	But the thing was that we took responsibility in the Danish People's Party together with some other parties in here. After all, we took responsibility before the 2019 elections, and we also took the discussion with the local people in relation to the project with the island of Lindholm. What did the Social Democratic Party do? The Social Democrats were greedy on this point, because the Social Democrats said that exactly that island should not be. So you spoke to the residents of the area, but you also spoke to the Mid-Judsmen over at Kærshovedgård, because they said it should not lie there either. And that is what is really the difference here, namely that we set out a proposal for a solution where it was at least more awkward for those people to stay on an island and have to move away from there than to be able to cut a hole in some fence around Kærshovedgård and then stick out and make crime. Since November 2018, the Social Democratic Party has been playing fat on this issue and has refused to come up with a proposal for a solution. And as I say, it wasn't just a question of a new exit center in this game that you came up with in 2018. After all, it was also intended to ensure that citizens and shops near the area could apply for support to set up security measures. It was that you had to compensate people for lower house prices. There is none of what the Social Democratic Party has been proposing since the elections; it is as if since the elections you have just hibernated in this area and you only come back to it when the rest of us leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131703	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131705	Ah, accusing us of hibernating is probably a bit too much, since we have been responsible for the biggest crisis since World War II. So there is nothing about going to war, but there is a task here that needs to be solved. I'm not quite sure that sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl is right, because it also came out along the way in relation to Lindholm that there would be a ferry that would sail back and forth and then transport the citizens. And those who commit crime in one place in Denmark are naming me if they do not also do the other place. That is what the challenge is: there are people we would like to be without; it is people who are asked to leave the country but who do not do so and who we are therefore forced to have at an exit centre. So I think that the picture you are trying to draw that there had been no problems in either Møn, in Vordingborg, in Kalvehave everywhere else on South Zealand, I do not think would have been the consequence. As far as the concrete proposal is concerned, as I have said, we will have something before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131758	The question is over. After a little cleaning, it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427131820	The other day, I was watching TrygFonden's security reading. When they ask the Danes what concerns them, the welfare of the future is in the top three. I understand. For even though the Prime Minister's Social Democracy and SF, Enhedslisten and the Radical Left have begun to turn the ship, there are still huge gaps in our safety net • serious holes after many years of bourgeois rule. And one of the gaps that is just as quietly developing at the moment is the daily allowance. The daily allowance period has been shortened, the daily allowance is less worthwhile. And if instead of talking about figures and how many it is and how many percent it is, we talk about people who lose their jobs and experience that they suddenly have a much worse economy, it has consequences in terms of whether you can pay for the dentist and whether you can afford to stay in your house. In fact, we should look into whether the safety net has not been too worn out. We are in the process of doing so in many places, I recognise that, but this is quite low-practical about the basic safety of ordinary employees in their daily work, not only when they become unemployed, but also the uncertainty that one day they may lose their jobs. In fact, I think there are many more Danes than we think, who are afraid of losing their jobs. Can their family continue to live where they do, can they stay in the conditions in which they are? And there I would like to ask the Prime Minister a little more broadly, not just very precisely in crowns and ears, but more broadly, if it should not also be a red government's job to get security back and have a look at the social safety net and thereby also strengthen the benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132011	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132012	Firstly, I would like to say that we do not have an insecure benefit system, we have a rather strong, robust benefit system. But it is true that when we look at some professional groups, there has been a decrease in the level of compensation, which I think is a completely legitimate and relevant discussion. We all have a very, very great interest in the fact that we have a strong Danish labour market model, where we organise ourselves, so we have a management of the labour market and we have a strong collective bargaining system and there is security if you lose your job. I think that we have all shown, and this is also true in broad terms, that the fact that we are going through a very, very difficult time as a society and a serious crisis does not mean that a lot of people are losing their jobs. If we had handled the task differently in Denmark, namely by not rolling out a strong safety net under companies, self-employed workers, if we had not pursued an activist crisis policy, unemployment would certainly have been greater in Denmark than it is today. So I think that with the policy pursued we give many Danish employees even greater security and even better security than that which can be given in terms of the level of compensation, by ensuring that they still have a job to attend to, even though we have been through the crisis we have. And with the economic policy we are looking into some unemployment figures that are less than in many other comparable countries. That's the best we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132135	Pia Olsen Dyhr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132136	I do not disagree with the Prime Minister in relation to the crisis management during the corona. In fact, I could have feared that it had been a bourgeois government which had sat there, as we saw during the financial crisis, and which did not take care to hold hands under jobs and the unemployed. So there are different ways of solving a crisis, and I think this has been the wise way to solve it, and it has also ensured that people have not lost their jobs, and they have also kept their hands on those who have lost their jobs. No doubt about it. However, we are still faced with a challenge in relation to our unemployment benefit system, because right now we are really seeing a third opt for private unemployment insurance because they do not feel that the current benefit system is robust enough. This is not, of course, the same as not receiving unemployment benefits, but since wage developments in this country have increased, while prosperity has generally increased, while unemployment benefits have not increased in the same way, people feel that the value of them is less, and that is not just a feeling, it is also quite real. That is really what the security measurement also shows, because they feel insecure, and that is why I think it is essential to look at the social safety net, not only for the individual but in fact for the whole of our labour market model.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132241	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132243	I am always happy to engage in a discussion about the benefit system. That is not the first thing on our list of priorities. When we look into the investments we want to make now, it is more about growth, so that we create more jobs so that more people can get to work and maintain their jobs. But what much suggests right now, and it may turn out to be a very, very special, unique situation for Denmark, is that many of our large industrial companies, Produktionsdanmark, where, for example, you make green conversion, have not been shut down at any time and will not be. They have been able to continue their production, and they have not fired very many employees, in contrast to the financial crisis, where there was a lot of smoke and this means now that the world is starting to open up, that Danish companies can accelerate, because they are not going to hire employees, because they have their good old employees who have all the skills. So we are staggeringly close to being able to see in Denmark that we have not only pursued the best policy of crisis for employees, but that we have also pursued the best policy of crisis for business as we can in a crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132350	Pia Olsen Dyhr with the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132351	Well, that's the cash benefits. I agree with what the Prime Minister says, but I think it is still important to listen to it when the Danes say that they are insecure about it and that we are also looking into a solution to it. We will certainly keep the area warm, and I do not think we are the only ones who will be aware of it. But another element, when you look at this security measurement, is the climate. It is also going to go to the top three, and it has to be said that once again, the government and the support parties, we have set the right course, fortunately together with a broad majority in the Folketing with the goal of 70%, but there is one area that we are still lagging behind, namely agriculture and the climate, where we are not in the end; we have not even started real negotiations on how ambitious we should be. And it is thought-provoking that what we see in industry and what we see among citizens and car owners and all sorts of others is that taxes are paid and that they are delivered while agriculture, unlike it, does not. And I would actually like to ask the Prime Minister whether he also agrees that agriculture must, of course, also deliver its share, including in the case of CO2.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132450	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132452	The short answer is: yes, we do not achieve a 70-percent objective as a society without everyone making a significant and significant contribution, and that of course also applies to Danish agriculture, where we expect the negotiations to start within a few days. So the answer is that of course Danish agriculture must also help to ensure the green transition. Moreover, I make quietly, it may be said, that when you bring up the rainboard today, we have now made decisions which correspond to the fact that by 2030 we have reduced by 55%. That is the objective for the whole of the European Union, and we are in line with that; we have succeeded in making those decisions. That is to say, we are already there now, when all the others are dreaming of getting there, and we have the opportunity to go even further together, and we should do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132539	The question is over. And after some cleaning, it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132558	Thank you. Temporary nature of refugees. It makes sense: when there is security in a country, the Radical Left will say to refugees that they will have to return. But I would also be honest and say that I am sorry that we in the Radical Left were so naive that we did not foresee that social democracy was indifferent to the UN, to fundamental rights and to the separation of families, to send young women alone back to the dictator Assad's regime in Syria. And I beg that we were so naive that we could not imagine a Danish Social Democrat who could lead a policy and a government in which Denmark is now the only country, except Orbans's Ungarn... see Syria as a safe country. There are no other countries that send Syrians back by force, for they risk being arrested, tortured and persecuted. I think that's not just pointless, but heartless. And I'm sorry that a 25-year-old nurse student like Faiza is going to divorce his family. Because her father is wanted in Syria. He can't be sent back, so he's being followed. And she is the only one in the family deported to Syria and will have to return, alone, as a young woman, and of course she fears being arrested by Assad's regime. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is this: if anything happens to Faiza of 25, in Syria alone, will the Prime Minister feel a share of responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132745	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132746	Well, for good reasons, I am not going into individual cases and individuals where I have no prerequisite whatsoever for assessing what kind of case we are talking about. However, I would like to spread across the board on this issue, and I just have to be frank and say that for me, because the Social Democracy and the Government make it extremely good sense that if you are moving and have a need for protection, you have to be able to be protected somewhere in the world where it is safe. But when you no longer have a need for protection, you have to go home to your country, and then you have to help build that country up. This is what the country needs, and it is also part of the contract that we need to have with each other. Because if we in Denmark are to have refugees who do not have a need for protection, then, to put it bluntly, we do not have room to help those refugees who have a need for protection. After all, there is not an infinite amount of space in Denmark for those refugees who have a need. By the way, there are far more refugees in need than those we go to Denmark or to Europe at all. So if we are to help those who have the greatest problems and the greatest challenges, then we must help refugees who have a need for protection. If you are individually persecuted, there is a set of rules and if you have a need for protection because of general conditions, then they can change at some point. Moreover, it is not a political decision. It is, after all, an authority assessment of when the situation in the country of origin would suggest that you can return home. And I would call for it to continue to be an authority assessment and decision, not a political one. However, I think that the idea of temporaryity makes sense to everyone, and perhaps even in particular if you have come to a country that has spent money making a smarter and more skillful, and you have acquired some competences that are so much sought in the home country where you have to live for the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132933	Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427132936	But in that answer I hear that the Prime Minister does not feel a sense of responsibility if something happened to her, who is now being separated from her father, who is personally persecuted and therefore cannot be sent back. There are several examples of these. I must also assume that the Prime Minister considers that it is not responsible for all the other countries, which are, after all, all the others, where it is estimated that you cannot send back by force. And, of course, I would like a reaction to that. In other words, when they consider that Syria is not safe enough to send refugees back to, does the Prime Minister think that they are wrong? The United States has also warned against this, and I would just like to hear: is the Prime Minister proud that in this way we are going alone here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133034	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133035	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen speaks of return by force. This is not the case from the Danish side in relation to Syria. So it is a misunderstanding that we need to correct, because that is not the case. But it's a strange discussion to have with each other. 'Cause, you mean, we're gonna go country by country? All those internally displaced persons who are in Yemen right now, who are probably the country where they are currently. is the biggest humanitarian disaster we have worldwide: the people who suffer the harm of women being raped, children who do not survive, do we have a responsibility for it? Should we take refugee group country by country and place individual responsibility? Or should we be accountable to the decisions we have made ourselves here in the Danish Parliament, namely that we have promised the Danes how many people are coming here. Moreover, the Radical Left also says that we have finally decided in Danish refugee policy that it is temporary? You can gain protection when you need it. And when it is assessed that there is no longer the need, you have to go back. That responsibility has to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133141	Sofie Carsten Nielsen, final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133143	Yes, and the responsibility where you take a position on the specific people who are not properly sent out. They are therefore placed in a centre, and that makes no sense. They go to school, some are at work, and you take people out of that to place them at a center from which they do not But another matter that also concerns Syria: Danish children are sitting in Syrian prison camps. We have heard of conditions there, and murder, rape and hunger are part of everyday life. And the government ministers may have known it longer without taking action. We are examining this, and that is why I am actually interested in how the Prime Minister feels about it. We have several previous occasions apologized to the Danish state for its inaction towards several groups of children; the children of Godhavn, the children of Greenland. If it turns out that social democratic ministers have been sitting on knowledge that they should have acted on, is the Prime Minister prepared to apologize to the Danish children from Syrian camps?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133255	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133257	I'm gonna have to take a step back. For does the Radical Left really say that we must base the policy of foreigners on specific assessments and individual cases? What's up? Because there are some people you have more sympathy with or for than others, do they need better treatment? I mean, excuse me, but where's legal certainty in that? There can't be a set of rules for people you like for one reason or another, and then another set of rules for those you don't like. It will then have to be so whether you are a refugee or a foreigner, or what basis you have, that there are perfectly transparent, clear, transparent rules and legislation behind them. Surely you cannot base an alien policy on individual cases or on social media. At least you do it on legislation. And the legislation on which Denmark stands is that if you come here and have a need for protection, it protects people. But the day when that need is no longer present, you have to go to your own country and you have to help build that country so that, if we want to make use of it, we potentially have room to help another refugee who has an even greater need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133402	For that. The question is closed. And after a little cleaning, I can say go to Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133418	Recently, something spectacular happened. The nurses and midwives voted against their agreement. Of course, I do not want to interfere in the conflict or the negotiations, but I just have to say that I can understand if they are dissatisfied. The nurses who care for our sick and our elderly and have such an important job, and the midwives who receive our children are paid far too little. And why do they get it? Yes, it is due to a reform that has been carried out here at Christiansborg, the civil service reform of 1969, which placed some public subjects lower than others. It was particularly women's dominated subjects: educator, midwives, nurse, sosu assistant. They came in some of the lowest steps. This gave rise to enormous bias and this imbalance still exists today because we have not acted at Christiansborg. Then the Prime Minister will answer me in a moment that we politicians should not interfere in collective bargaining, that we should leave that to the parties. After all, the parties themselves have asked Christiansborg for money to solve this problem, so I'm not actually buying the apology. We have long fought against the old civil service reform in the Enhedslisten. We have made proposals year after year about pools to solve this very problem. And now it's dawning. Something's happening. SF, Radical and Danish People's Party say they're ready to end this reform. So my question to the Prime Minister is today: will the Prime Minister help to do something about this crooked wage reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133606	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133608	But it's So, we can't. There's been an announcement of conflict. A conflict has been announced, and then the Folketing steps aside and respects the model on which Denmark is founded. We have been doing this for decades, and that is one of the reasons why we are one of the richest and strongest societies in the world: it is not parliamentary politicians who sit and decide wages; it is the social partners. And you cannot stand up and say: we should not interfere in the conflict, but... conflict has been announced. In this situation, the Folketing can only do one thing in my view, and that is to step back. If there is then a resolution on the conflict, wherever it may end, we can have a legitimate discussion in my view about the area of civil servants as well. But as long as a conflict has been announced, we should take a step back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133656	Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133658	I look forward to the discussion that is coming, because in the Enhedslisten we will be fighting hard against the civil service reform. To something else now, which I would also like to touch on: the children in Syria, in particular the four-year-old Danish girl who is sitting down there in the prison camp now with her mother and her brother. They speak Danish together, they play together, they even have a cat called Ole. But the girl is by no means happy or safe. She has such traumatizing experiences in that camp, is so afraid of the guards and of cars coming that she has been found ptsd. Now the government has made an offer to the girl and the girl's mother, namely to separate the child from the mother and brother and take the girl to Denmark, although medical assessments warn against it and say that she will be more traumatized by it. I simply find it difficult to see how, as Prime Minister, a Prime Minister who calls himself the children Prime Minister will allow himself to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133807	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133808	First of all, I would like to conclude the second dialogue. When I refer to the Danish labour market model, it is not to give a bad excuse. It is in the hope of and an attempt to get Parliament to do so that this Parliament also holds to some of the principles on which Denmark stands, and that is among other things. the Danish labour market model. So that's not a bad excuse. For me, applying what I think should be the basis of Danish labour market policy is our labour market model, not parliamentary decisions. In relation to the specific case, I would like to say that I again find it difficult to stand in the Chamber and deal with a specific case, a person, a specific case. I can say that, in general terms, it is the government's approach that there may be humanitarian conditions that call for an evaluation from the camps that are home to us, and we shall just include this in the story: people who not only support the Islamic State but who have actively come out of Denmark to fight with the Islamic State against Denmark. That's what we're talking about. It's not a family. We are talking about people who have joined the Islamic State. And there may be special circumstances that make it possible to evacuate, and that applies in the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133916	Thank you. Mai Villadsen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133918	What we're talking about is a four-year-old girl and her mother and brother, a four-year-old girl who feels terrible and who will get worse if you do what the government has now offered. I understand that the Prime Minister is standing here saying that you don't want to interfere in individual cases, but this single matter the government has already interfered with by making an offer that is impossible for this mother and for this girl. I find that shocking and quite disgusting to offer them. So I would actually like to hear from the Prime Minister what the Prime Minister now, when the government has interfered in this case, has to say to this girl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133956	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427133957	Of course, I am not communicating with a specific citizen in the Chamber. We've done this before. There is a boy whose health conditions were such that it was assessed by the authorities that he could be evacuated and where Denmark has evacuated the boy with the mother's consent to Denmark. My acquaintance, it's worked fine. Now we have another child whose relationship says it can be evacuated. And it is not a question of Denmark making an offer. It is a question of Denmark telling the family concerned that the girl's relationship is so bad that the girl should come to a safe place, and we now give the girl the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134040	The question is over. Thank you. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134100	Thank you. What we are basing everything we are doing in here is, of course, that we make agreements with each other and that we subsequently also keep those agreements. That is what makes it possible for us to make new agreements with each other. There has not been much talk of reopening today, so I will spend some time on that. We must not be led to believe that, although we had opened up and taken a good step here last time, there are still challenges. There are still children who need to go to school; there are still plenty of parts of business that need to get started; there are still many restrictions in the life we live. And we must not forget this discussion because we have now, like, moved a step further. We agreed to open up a lot, among other things. Cafes and restaurants, last meeting. Then, after 3 days, I found that there had been a 30-minute rule for booking. Then I sat down and thought that mistakes should be corrected, and then I wrote an e-mail to the two ministers in this area, and also to all the party chairmen who had participated, because of course they should know when someone is making an appeal in connection with an agreement. It has been over a week since now, and I have met with a wall of silence and have not received an answer. I have just noticed that it is now with the Minister for Industry and that it is said that it should have been calculated. What do you have to count on? Well, you can't sit in a café or a restaurant without having a coronapas. What is the calculation that needs to be made? Is it because one thinks that the Danes will be standing in long queues in front of cafés and restaurants, and that there will almost be a handful to get into them and that people will then perhaps infect each other? Try to go to the province at any café or restaurant and talk to them about the frustrations they have. I know that the Prime Minister says that it is not a major intervention in her case that you should call and order a table. No, but this is about the restaurants and café owners. In my zip code and many other places in Denmark, you get into a place spontaneously, and therefore it matters. So my first question is actually: why is it that some authorities, because they think that politicians have gone too far, can just make their own rules and then we just accept it afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134308	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134310	First of all, it is incredibly gratifying that we are in the process of reopening the Danish society, unlike many other countries that are in a really hard third wave. We have now been able to avoid this because of a combination of the continued support of the Danes to do what we each need to do to get through this, the use of coronapas, that there are still some necessary restrictions and that we do not reopen more quickly than is justified. We're in a really, really good place. This means that, unlike many other places, restaurants and cafés can open, and it is very good that it has been included in the agreement. Then it has been said that you have to call half an hour in advance and reserve a table, and if I remember correctly, that part of the agreement will actually expire on 6 May. In other words, there will be no more restriction if things continue to go well. So I definitely think it's important that we make agreements with each other. We have done so throughout the reopening and, in my view, we are doing very well. If there are some very specific questions for a few elements, I must almost recommend that the questions be put to the minister responsible. In general terms, I think there is reason to rejoice at how well the reopening is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134424	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134425	You'd just think it was enough to send an e-mail to the ministers you had signed up with to get an answer. This isn't about half an hour. For me, it is a problem of principle that we make an agreement and that the health authorities then make their own rules afterwards. When you ask the government why there isn't one place in 30 minutes in that agreement, you're told that there must be pre-ordering, and that it may also be the case that you get there and ask if they have a table, and then they are told that they do. But why is there the eagerness to be so controlling in this society? Why is it that the government and the support parties say: we better control this a little, we better manage it a little, because the Danes are so irresponsible that they can't control anything themselves? It is about the principle that we make an agreement and when we make an agreement, we should not have any health authorities who make their own policy afterwards, and a minister who then sits and says that it has to be counted on. But what on earth is to be counted on? There is nothing to count on; this is just about not wanting to follow a political decision and the government backing it. I don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134529	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134531	Excuse me, isn't that too easy? Isn't it too easy just to stand up and say that the governing party or other parties just want to rule and control? We are right now in one of the safest corona countries in the world around the world! We've been avoiding a third wave so far. Europe is struggling in many places. In India it's terrible, in Brazil it's terrible. We are so well placed right now, thanks mainly to the people, but also to the political decisions that have been made. I have no reason to believe that there should be health authorities sitting and putting decisions on top of the agreement that has been reached. I don't recognize that picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134618	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134619	The next negotiations will certainly take some time, because that is where we will have to examine everything carefully before we can reach an agreement, because we do not know what else will be added afterwards. We have 170-180 hospitalized, we have had that stable for some time, and that is only pleasing. That's why we should try not to be so nervous. I need to ask a question about Kærshovedgård, because such excellent questions have been asked about it earlier this day. I also mentioned it from the platform during the party leader's debate. I know that the government is saying that something is coming before the summer break and that there have been other things to do. I do not know how much the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has had to do with the corona effort, but peace with it. What I am going to ask today is not when it comes or everything else; all I want to ask today is: can the government lift a little of the veil about what criteria it intends to lay in? Putting it on an island where no one lives was a bad idea or too expensive an idea, I understood. It's not gonna work with Kærshovedgård. But couldn't you just tell me a little bit about something you must have thought about, I know you have over two years of age, what some of the criteria could be? For example: Anything with distance? As long as I get two or three criteria or just one criterion, I'm happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134727	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134728	I think that we must wait for the government to be ready to play out something concrete. Moreover, I fully agree that a solution must be found, not least for the sake of the local population in Central Jutland, who suffer from the foreigners who commit crime and who do not respect Danish society, their fellow citizens or, moreover, the general rules of the game that are unfortunately in our society. In conclusion, I would like to say that for me there is a very big difference between being nervous about corona, what I myself have not really been at any time, and taking responsibility for the fact that society as a whole will get through this as well as possible. We are very, very close to seeing a lower fall in GDP than in many other European countries and lower unemployment than in many other countries. We have the opportunity to accelerate growth in a different way from most other societies. I fully agree that there must be time to criticise what needs to be criticized, but when we do the counting board, there is much to suggest that not only have we done this much better health-wise than we had dared to hope for, but indeed also financially, and that is very good for Danish business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134834	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. After a little cleaning, it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427134901	Two foreigners were convicted in Copenhagen City Court last week. 794 crimes have been convicted of. They have swindled; they have attacked random Danes; they have kicked people in the head while lying down; they have stolen expensive cars; they have bought expensive luxury clothes for money, which they have also stolen; they have robbed; they have threatened; they have even committed rape. They've filmed their crimes and shared them on social media. The two foreigners here have just kept going and going. I would like to read some of the indictment for the Prime Minister and for the Folketing. The charge is about a 14-year-old girl they raped in shifts and filmed while they were there. I quote: The defendant lay in bed with F 1, i.e. the offended, the only 14-year-old girl, and maintained F 1 with his arms while performing enforced vaginal intercourse with her, although F 1 several times said no, stop, don't or the like and tried to push away the name ban on the accused person, after which the accused, at the end of the intercourse, threatened to beat F 1, who is the girl, if she did not perform oral sex on the other accused, in which connection the other accused pressed F 1's head down against his penis and performed oral sex. It's a 14-year-old girl. The two foreigners were not expelled. They've been given a warning of expulsion. It's totally, totally crazy. One doomed person is probably out by Christmas, and the other probably by summer next year. Then they can continue their brutal behavior in Denmark. I understand that the Prime Minister, who, like me, has children of this age, is shaken and affected. I really am. I would like to know if the Prime Minister thinks that this is the legal state we are going to have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135112	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135114	I'm completely disgusted by this description. It is both over the concrete course of events, which is one of the worst things you can possibly imagine surpassing a child, but of course I am disgusted by that too, and I stand by that one coming to Denmark and committing that kind of crime and the atrocities. Like what I have said in other contexts, I cannot go into individual cases. I promise you, they're gonna take up a lot of questions today. I have no preconditions for doing so. But I would say in general terms that when you commit crimes of a dangerous nature, rape, etc., you have to be sent out by Denmark. That is my political position. Then I will not get involved in any specific legal proceedings here either. But if it is true, as it is described, that, in the light of very, very criminal circumstances, Denmark is not being expelled, then I think that there is reason to look again at the expulsion rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135213	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135215	I think that is very good news, because if you are not expelled for such brutal crime, it is for 794 relationships, including rape of a 14-year-old, there is something wrong, and then you can ask what it takes. This is totally unacceptable if that is the case in Denmark. The Prime Minister may recall that I have previously told of Cecilia, who was beaten and also raped by a Somali foreign criminal, a man who was also not expelled, despite the fact that this was his fourth crime in Denmark and his fourth warning of expulsion. The Prime Minister said at the time that she was very impressed and that the government wanted to expel more criminal foreigners. The Prime Minister has also previously disagreed with the international rules of play when protecting the perpetrator and not the victim. So how will the Prime Minister ensure that more criminal foreigners are expelled, so it is the victims and not the perpetrator who is being protected?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135313	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135315	I must not hide the fact that one of the reasons why I am today not only in favour but also in favour of strict foreign policy is crime. I'm not hiding that. When you look at the crime picture in Denmark, there is a very, very close connection between the serious, the worst and the most dangerous crime and immigration policy. There is. It's beyond question. You can see it in Copenhagen Byret. You can see it in the prisons. It's very, very clear. And we can see from most crime statistics that for many people with a different ethnic background, crime statistics are too much. So one of the reasons why I am today in favour of a very strict immigration policy is to avoid the crime that results from not having control over the area of foreigners. That is my clear conviction. In relation to the specific cases that I find difficult to enter for good reasons, and it does not matter whether it is a child that we want to look after and protect, or it is a victim that we want to be able to protect, I can give a commitment that if we do not have sufficiently strict expulsion rules, we are willing to look at them again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135427	Mrs Pernille Vermund, on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135429	That is what is needed, because these individual cases are piled up. For years, the Danes have been told politically that criminal foreigners are being expelled for such serious crimes as those I am talking about here, but the fact is that the same politicians repeatedly let the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg come across and protect the criminals. This means that the criminal foreigners are allowed to stay in Denmark too much instead of being expelled. There is, of course, a large majority who says that we believe that they should, not least in these very, very serious areas. This does not mean that we must cancel international commitments. We do not need to resign from the Convention on Human Rights or the Council of Europe. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister: if the Prime Minister is willing to resolve these problems, if the Prime Minister is willing to say that criminal foreigners who commit these serious crimes are being expelled, how will the Prime Minister ensure quite specifically that a judgment for expulsion in Denmark cannot be overturned by either the Human Rights Court or the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135532	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135534	If you look at our legal history in recent years, and that's among other things. In addition to the profits of the former bourgeois government, the expulsion rules have been tightened up several times. The new thing we have added, for example, is that you can get your citizenship withdrawn and you can't go back to Denmark at all or be expelled, while you lose your citizenship and therefore can't come back either. So several laps have succeeded, and as I said, I am happy to look at how we can do it again. I am not going to denounce international conventions and agreements for many other reasons and many other reasons, but I would like to acknowledge that there are dilemmas in complying with international rules of play, because we see examples, particularly in the field of foreigners, of protecting the perpetrator and, unfortunately, not the victim.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135627	The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135643	Thank you. And I can comfort the Prime Minister that I am not bringing any individual cases. I'd like to talk about welfare today. In Denmark we have a long and proud tradition of welfare, even before we had a welfare state for that matter. We had the Mother's Aid, Dan, Falck, the Diakonisse Foundation. We have had private welfare in this country for many decades, and I think it is absolutely an advantage for Denmark and an advantage for the Danes that we have good private welfare providers, whether they are private nursing homes, private kindergartens, free schools, private hospitals or private settlements. It is good that it is not only the municipality or the system that can provide welfare. It is good for citizens to be able to opt out of the public sector if they are dissatisfied with the service they receive that they can opt out of the public nursing home if they are abused, as Else did, and choose a private nursing home, or that they can opt out of the primary school if they think that the latest primary school reform has destroyed the primary school, or that they can just choose a private kindergarten because they think it is a good offer, and think: it suits me and my family. There is no doubt that the public sector can deliver good, broad and stable solutions in the area of welfare, and we must stick to that. But the private welfare providers can do something else. They can think freely, they can think creatively, they can think new, both within management and organisation and the way they provide welfare. That is why I believe that it is absolutely for the benefit of our citizens that we have a good market for private welfare. In fact, it is also for the benefit of the citizens that they can set up a welfare business. In other words, if an educator who is passionate about caring for the children and is an entrepreneurial spirit, an entrepreneurial soul, and wants to care for the children in a different way than the way you do it in the municipality, then she must have the opportunity to start a private kindergarten. It is for her benefit, it is for the benefit of the children, it is for the benefit of the citizens. Sometimes one can get the impression that the government is conducting such an ideological crusade against private welfare, but I would really like to give the Prime Minister the benefit of the doubt and then just ask the Prime Minister overall: Does the Prime Minister agree that there are great gains and benefits for Denmark as a welfare society and for the Danish citizens that we have a well-functioning, a strong market for private welfare providers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135845	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427135848	It is true that if you look back at our history, the history of Denmark is filled with welfare, and it actually started much earlier as a more collective good in our society than in so many others. I'd say it's with K.K. Steincke's social reform from the 1930s, which is, by the way, being concluded, must be brought with us on the day Hitler arrives in Germany on that day. We are not talking about that week or month or year, but on that day Danish politicians sit down with spirits on the table at Thorvald Stauning's apartment and make the Chancellorgade settlement. This is what will subsequently become the seed of K.K Steincke's social reform. It is a very, very strong piece of Danish political history. The others chose dictatorship and division, polarisation, we chose pragmatic cooperation. The one that K.K. Steincke's social reform does the primary thing: it shifts the focus from going to ask for something with the hat in your hand and is subject to the whims of others to gaining rights because you are a citizen of Danish society. I like that thought. Having said that, everything should not be the same, and in Denmark we have a tradition of having self-serving institutions, free schools and others, and that is a very, very important part of it, one might say, overall welfare offers. What I do not like from the opening question, where I think many good things were said, is that if you have to think new, creative and free, it has to be private. Why? By the way, I think there are plenty of public servants who experience that they do this every day and are doing a very, very great job for children, the elderly and others. But thinking new, creative and free must cross public and private, preferably in cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140032	Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140033	In other words, it is not me who thinks that you cannot think freely and innovatively and break the framework of public opinion. After all, it is because of the duvet of bureaucracy that there are and the limitations there are. The public sector is, after all, in many ways marked by such an entrepreneurship ban. You can't come as a private entrepreneur and say that now I'm gonna start some new welfare in the public sector. You can't do things a new way. You can do that more easily if you have a private kindergarten or a private residence or a free school, and I hear the Prime Minister say that it is good for Denmark as a welfare community. Where, of course, I am wondering, and I think the Prime Minister has guessed where I want to go with the talk, is that the government has a desire to take money from the free schools, that it has a desire to ban private settlements and to ban private welfare in social services, and that it has a desire to ban private kindergartens. In some areas, the Danes will be banned from opting out of public and private life, and entrepreneurship souls will be banned from living their dream of being able to make money by caring for children through a business. I just want to hear what you really do not like about private welfare providers, because this is not because there is too much alcohol on the table when you have these negotiations. There are some things you like; we have made that clear. What is it you don't like that you want to go this path of bans?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140142	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140143	No, there is not much liquor left on the political negotiating tables. I was just about to add one unfortunately, but it's going to sound wrong. Well, we've started now, and it was really with Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslagh's support, an attempt in seven municipalities, where we allow them to start completely from scratch in primary school, in day care and in the area of the elderly, and what we said then was: Now we have to see if we can get the support of the Folketing to remove the rules from here, and then you have to do the same municipal. In the area of children and, to a large extent, in the area of school, we came to the area of the elderly, and then there was an old-fashioned ideological blue fight in it, and then they said: 'Whoa, we can only release the municipalities, the citizens and the employees in those areas where we agree that we should be freed. I am annoyed because I believe that we have the opportunity, with the seven municipalities, to show that all this innovation power exists out there if the politicians of parliament begin to interfere somewhat less, not more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140254	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140256	I mean, I'm sighing a little bit. I am used to the Prime Minister not answering my questions, but there I usually have critical questions. This isn't even a critical question. I just ask what it is that you do not like private welfare providers, since you want to ban the private settlements, you want to ban the private kindergarten and you want to take money from the free schools, and then I have just said a song from the hot countries, but it is probably the cold Nordic countries that you want to set some municipalities free, including free elections for the citizens. We can take that debate. It's just not the debate I'm interested in right now. Well, I am interested if we agree that it is good that there are private welfare providers in Denmark, that it is good for citizens and that it is good for Denmark as a welfare society, why it is then that the government is actually trying to ban a number of private welfare providers. Why not do more to ensure that the private welfare initiative can flourish in Denmark, so that the Danes have greater freedom of choice, you get more innovation and you strengthen the long welfare tradition that we have, which is that it is not only the municipal system that can provide welfare? That is actually what I wanted to have a discussion about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140351	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140352	But it is not true that we want to ban them. That's not true. What we have said is that if you run a social institution, you should not be able to make money from the poor people who, for one reason or another, are there. That's different. Surely we have no wish whatsoever to ban. Yes, I recognize and I acknowledge that the Muslim private schools I have a problem with, because the parallel societies we risk being established or being established there are very much against me, and I do not believe that we can integrate children and young people with minority backgrounds if we have a lot of Muslim free schools with a completely different way of thinking and teaching. It is true that we want to do something about them, but it is not right that we want to ban anything else. We have just said that we should not make money from children placed in care, which is actually fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140439	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh for the question. I'm gonna get a little wiped off. I had actually prepared a joke that the profit margin of those private settlements is 2.4%. It's less than what the Liberal Alliance has in the polls, so that's not such a big problem. I didn't get to fire that joke, but now I'm gonna give you this. That's how Mr. Alex Vanopslagh to get the last word in an elegant way. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140512	Thank you, President. Yesterday, almost an infinite number of Danish schools and educational organizations had a chronicle in Berlingske, where they criticise Denmark's asylum policy and immigration policy in quite strong terms. On Facebook, Social Democratic Integration and Foreign Affairs rapporteur Rasmus Stoklund answers among other things.: Today the Danish Teacher Association and a number of other educational organisations launched a hard attack on Denmark's foreign policy in Berlingske. I do not remember having previously read a chronicle from large organizations with such patronizing an attitude towards the overwhelming majority of both the population and the Folketing, who are behind the policy of foreigners. I was surprised, moreover, that the Teachers' Association has such strong foreign policy positions as quite precisely fleeing with the alternative and other parts of the extreme left. Stoklund wrote that on Facebook. In the alternative, of course, we are proud to be taken as an income for the criticism that has just been made by the Danish teaching profession as a whole in relation to the government's integration and immigration policy. This gives us the opportunity to put the questions of the representatives of the many thousands of teachers directly to the Prime Minister. Are young people to sit in exit centres while classmates drive a student drive and celebrate their youth and future? Is this really in line with the Danish people's mood? No other European countries are returning Syrian refugees. This raises doubts about the facts. So why do we not allow the wrongdoers, in other words the refugees, to benefit, as we usually do in the Danish rule of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140635	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140636	Thank you for that question too. I would warn against the fact that we are beginning to legislate on the basis of individual cases, including foreign policy. I think it is important that there is legal certainty; that it is transparent what decisions we take and that, of course, we also stand by the consequences of the policy which a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament has adopted with the support of the Danish people. In my view, I also had the opportunity to discuss this with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen earlier on, it is in fact common sense that if you are a refugee and have a need for protection you should be protected somewhere in the world. When you no longer have that need for protection and in my view it should not be up to politicians to define when the need for protection is there or is not there, then you have to go back to your home country. I think this is a basically sound and sensible principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140731	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140732	As the only country in Europe, the authorities in Denmark estimate that Damascus is a safe place, despite the fact that the UN refugee organisation says Damascus is not safe; despite the fact that the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken made an appeal to other countries at the end of March not to press Syrian refugees to return before it can be done with security and dignity. The world seems to be looking at it wondering, and the leading British and German newspapers ask: What does Denmark know, which the rest of the world does not know?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140806	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140807	There's this discussion about when a country is safe to travel to. After all, we are talking about refugees who have a general need for protection; individual persecuted people are another matter. I guess there are two options. Either we make it a political issue, or we do what we have a tradition of in Denmark, namely that it is the authorities who assess it on the basis of their work. I find it hard to imagine a situation in which it would be sensible for politicians to sit and judge whether countries are safe or uncertain. I wouldn't recommend it. Nor would I recommend that we start basing Danish foreign policy on individual cases, regardless of what sympathy one might have for specific real people in specific real situations. In my view, foreign policy will have to be firm so that everyone knows what to do, and it is well known that if you only have a temporary need for protection, you will only be temporarily protected in Denmark, and then you will have to go back, which, moreover, will provide an opportunity for us to take advantage of the fact that we will then be able to help refugees who have a real need for protection at the time they may have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140914	Sir. Torsten Gejl for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427140915	We have the question from our Members, which we ask every time. It's from Signe Irminger. My Syrian family came to Denmark in 2014. They arrived with very few items in worn suitcases. They arrived with physical scars after a bomb hit close to their car along the way on the escape. They showed me pictures of their children full of blood and bandages. They followed intensively the news stream from Syria, and they asked me over and over again why no one did anything; why no one intervened, why Assad was not stopped. Where was the United States? Where was the EU? They lost family members and those with whom they continued to contact lived without power, medical care and in periods without access to running water. And the bombs fell at shorter and shorter intervals. As the Assad army drew a bloody trail northwards, they witnessed the EU's agreement with Turkey preventing civilians from crossing Syria's northern border. Now, as they continue to receive daily messages of death, dictatorship and torture, the Danish Government is starting to send Syrian refugees back to Syria. What should I say when they ask how this can be done? That's how our member asks the PM. And it's not a personal story. She generally asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141023	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141025	But it's a personal story that makes an impression, that is, what that family might have experienced. I think that hurts all of us. This is what characterizes the situation of many refugees all over the globe: very, very unstable, in some places violent and dangerous circumstances and conditions, so we must of course help those people who have a need for protection where they need help. My answer, as I have already given it before, is that it is not a political decision in Denmark which countries are judged to be one or the other. It is the authorities and, moreover, it is an institution which has worked for quite a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141109	Thank you. The question is closed. And after a little cleaning, sir. Torsten Gejl thank you for that, sir. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141137	Thank you. I can't help but think of Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslaghs...wax on, wax off. You could use that to ask the Prime Minister a few more questions. Instead of coughing at the Prime Minister, of whom there has been a great deal during this Question Time, I would like to mention that in October, when the Prime Minister gave his opening speech, I heard one of the best opening speeches I have heard in the time I have been in the Folketing, not least the part about the release of the municipalities, which was also part of the discussion with the Liberal Alliance. What I would like to ask the Prime Minister is her view of a proposal that we from the KD will be presenting tomorrow, namely a real release of the municipalities by removing the service ceiling, by removing the tax freeze against the municipalities, by reintroducing tax collection in the regions, by compensating for it on the bottom tax, so that we move money from the state and out there, where they are to operate in the local democracy and in the regional, so that you can adjust your service needs to what is being discussed in municipal and regional elections that we are facing, that is to say, a real liberation of municipalities and regions. What is the government's position on this release?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141304	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141305	First of all, a warm welcome to Mr. Jens Rohde in this context. Jens Rohde Thank you for that! ) We need to get used to new tasks and new roles and new parties. Welcome. It was quite a mouthful and also a relatively large proposal. Here we are suddenly beginning to have some other things in play too, namely what the overall tax burden in Denmark is, and so in my view we are also moving far into what the cornerstone of the economic policy pursued is. I believe there is ample opportunity for us to create a framework for new thinking, for relations, for creativity, for professionalism based on trust without doing what I understand the Christian Democrats are asking for, but that requires one crucial thing, and that is that the Folketing will soon dare to take a step back. And the Folketing is having a really hard time doing that. I dare say it so directly because I can feel the government having a hard time with it too. Every time a new reform is made, a new legislative proposal or a new resolution is tabled or we have a debate, we almost always end up with even more rules and even more bureaucracy. If we are really going to put this to death and build a welfare society on trust, then we politicians must start to step back not only one but several steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141423	Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141425	Thank you. But we've been saying all this for a hundred years from in here, and it's the same discussion over and over again. That is why there must be some other concrete levers to really free the municipalities. After all, we are talking about, because we also come up with a plan to lighten taxes quite considerably at work, to move the funds from here and to move our control over the funds to where they really are to be spent. That is what we want, and it is not asking the Prime Minister to take such a concrete stance in terms of crowns and ears, but it is the principle that we start using some other instruments so that we can free local democracy. I myself have sat in a municipality, Viborg Municipality, and experienced how we hit the service ceiling, so even though we actually had a lot of money we could spend on public welfare, we couldn't do that. It is, of course, a strange situation to be faced with the citizens. So it's the whole principle of dare to use some new instruments and that's some of what the Prime Minister introduced... but it's gonna be a lot of government anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141528	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141529	Well, that's right, and you can get completely tired even of this discussion, because I actually think it was the former Prime Minister Poul Schlüter who really started the discussion about bureaucracy in the public sector. Since then, it's only gotten worse. And I mean what I said before, that every time we do a reform in here, and it doesn't matter which parties are involved, we only make it even worse. And then it ends up with a party saying: well, exactly in this area, we want to be absolutely sure that the municipalities or schools or the care of the elderly are doing exactly what we think is important. And when you put it all together, we do it over and over again. I mean what I said in the opening debate: we are destroying our welfare society. We are because we have such skilled employees, we have the world's most amazing population, and we have some relatives who also take responsibility in many places, but they cannot be allowed to unfold their potential, because yes, now I say it again • 179 people want to decide too much in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141624	Sir. Jens Rohde, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141626	That's a good answer. So allow me to jump to my Senator Cato question, with which I have toured the Prime Minister at virtually all the European Committee meetings prior to European Council meetings, and now the Prime Minister knows what it is: when does the Prime Minister intend to address what is going on at the Qatar World Cup at the European Council? There are things going on in the world of sport that we never have, and it cannot be that the whole of political Europe is looking at what is going on there. Sport needs help, as they say themselves, to tackle the problem. So now I ask the Prime Minister here in the Chamber: will the Prime Minister and the Government address this issue in the European Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141722	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141724	I agree with the problematisation of the Qatar World Cup and I find what we have already seen down there deeply problematic. It is FIFA that has made the decision, and I understand that Danish criticism, that is to say DBU's, was raised yesterday of the decision, and I understand that criticism. I am uncertain about the last thing that has been said here, namely whether it is true that sport has asked for political help. Because if today's sport finds that a wrong decision has been taken, then sport can make a different and better decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427141814	Thank you. This is the end of Question Time. I would like to thank the participants. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 14.30.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427143013	The sitting is resumed. Amendments have been tabled. The Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 7 and 8 of the report remain. Does anyone wish to accept these amendments? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427143102	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL), on amendments No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL and NB) or on Amendment No 9. 10-16, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427143145	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427143220	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210427143239	Then the question is how long a break is needed. I am told that the next meeting will be held today and that it will be held at 1 p.m. 14.45. There is no more to be done in this sitting, but the next sitting with votes is therefore today at 1 p.m. 14.45. I would therefore ask Members to leave the Chamber quietly so that we can be cleaned up here during the break.
