ParlaMint-DK_20210316130001	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Preben Bang Henriksen (V) and Karsten Lauritzen (V): Motion for a resolution No. B 281 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on changing the practice of release of crimes with serious consequences for Danish society). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210316130023	The item listed as No. 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. And if no one objects, I consider the consent given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316130045	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316130048	Thank you for that, President. Yesterday we took another step in the reopening of Denmark. In phase 1 it was the small children, in phase 2 came shops, outdoor culture and sport, regional reopenings, and now graduates in most of the country are again in school, afterschools and high schools are opened, the 5.-8. classes meet physically for the first time in several months 1 day a week outdoors. Is that enough? No, but it's better than nothing. And how happy our children and young people are to have come back to school! Other countries are currently dealing with new closures, the third wave rushing into Europe. At home we discuss reopening, and that is positive. Because we are gradually moving forward, we can keep the infection in Denmark under control. The more we test, detect and isolate, the more people are vaccinated, the more we can defend opening up. A coronapass that shows if you have been vaccinated, previously infected or tested negative may well become the tool that allows us to open up faster than otherwise. That and much more we are now in the process of looking at together with all the parties of the Folketing. I would like to take this opportunity today to thank you for the constructive cooperation and the discussions that are already under way on a comprehensive reopening plan. The will to take responsibility is great on the part of all parties, and I think it is very good. At the same time as we are now laying down a plan for the reopening of the coming months, we must already look further ahead. We must strengthen the Danish social model, a secure welfare society, a greener Denmark and a business community that must have good conditions to create both exports and new and more Danish jobs. When Danish society and the Danish economy have got through the crisis as well as we fortunately are, an important reason is that we are one of the most digital countries in the world. Danish companies are well advanced in different areas when it comes to digitalisation: More than 1 million Danes have been able to take care of their work from home, because the digital in Denmark was already an integral part of working life. Citizens can book time for both testing and vaccine digitally, Denmark's digital leadership has in other words helped us through this crisis. We must fight not only to maintain that position but to develop it. That is why we are taking a new step today to make Denmark stronger. This is a new public and private digital partnership where we invite top managers and experts from the business community, from the research community and from civil society to participate. For more than a year now, the pandemic has also shown us what we can do in Denmark when we unite the public and private sectors. The new partnership will be tasked with developing the first comprehensive digitalisation strategy for Denmark, where both the public and the private are involved. It is my ambition that we should take the positive experiences of the pandemic with us into the future and use them constructively. Digitalisation is also on the agenda in the EU. This applies, among other things, when we start a new summit in Brussels next week. Denmark must, of course, put its mark on the agenda here. As a prelude to the meeting, I have therefore, together with both the Prime Ministers of Finland and Estonia and the Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel, called for Europe to seize the opportunities of digitalisation as a whole. We must, of course, be open to the digital and use it, but we must also make safety requirements for the tech giants, and Europe must not, under any circumstances, leave the digital scene of the future to either the United States or Asia.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316130446	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his introductory statement. We are now moving on to questions from the party leaders, and it is the case that the questioner and Prime Minister each have up to two minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. The first party leader is sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316130508	Thank you for that, President. I will start in the same place as the last time we stood here, because even though the Prime Minister says that a little has happened, not enough has happened. The country's pediatricians note that they see more children and young people who have done self-harm. The country's psychologists see a marked increase in requests from people suffering from anxiety. Danish child organizations report far more lonely children, lonely young people. The closure of our society therefore has serious consequences, especially for our children and for our young people, and it must be about something other than corona; it is about more than corona. It is also about well-being, and it is about mental health. Left and other blue parties want our children and our young people to return to school now not after Easter, not in a month's time, but now. I do not understand why the government and the government's support parties, who are otherwise busy telling how they want to help the children, do not want the children back now. The infection rates are still low, and if an outbreak of infection occurs, it is a matter of shutting down quickly, efficiently and locally. You have shown that you can do that, as you have shown in Kolding, so of course you can do it elsewhere. Now we have started the negotiations on reopening, and that is a good thing. But I really would like to ask the Prime Minister: why can't the children go back to school now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316130649	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316130651	Are we really going to have a political conflict about this, when all the parties in the Folketing have said the same thing? All parties want a special focus on children and young people, and all parties have also indicated that the focus in the next stage of the reopening of Denmark must be on children and young people. We agree that children or young people should go back to school. Of course children and young people have to go back to school, and many are already in school today. We have chosen to focus the re-opening of Denmark on first getting the smallest school classes started and subsequent graduates in large parts of the country. The post-schools are back, and now the 5th-8th grade is back too. Some pupils still have to come back, and I actually hear that all parties are saying the same thing, namely that there is a widespread desire for the children to return as soon as there is room. So I would actually like to appeal to us to cooperate on a good reopening of Denmark instead of the opposite. So I also have to say that, although we see problems with distrust, and I agree with that, and this is a good sign, in the sense that children and young people thrive better in a normal society than in a closed society, of course, and even though there are children and young people who experience problems with loneliness, I would also like to appeal at the same time that we do not have a picture in this Chamber that all Danish children and young people are in trouble, because they are not. Many children and young people are fighting something because of the global pandemic, and we must help them with that, but I am experiencing, for example. also Danish children and young people who are proud of the efforts they have made over the past year, and so I also experience children and young people who are happy that with the efforts they have made, they can help to ensure that Denmark gets through the crisis well. So there are many nuances in this, but children and young people are all the parties in the Folketing agreed on is the next important effort when it comes to reopening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316130841	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316130843	I understand that the children are proud. I think we should also reward them for this, because they have made enormous efforts. They have suffered and they suffer a tremendous deprivation. Nobody in here says that all children suffer from this, but you can't neglect it and pretend it's a few when a quarter of the children in this country suffer from this shutdown and have a reduced well-being due to this shutdown. If we do not take it seriously in here that a quarter of the children in Denmark suffer from it, there are many things we can sweep under the tiny carpet. We're gonna take this seriously. This isn't about turning anything into a conflict. It's about the fact that we disagree and that I think the children should go back now. And yes, we all agree that they have to go back sometime. Your time is then sometime after Easter, in a month or when it will be. My time is now. Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316130944	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316130946	I certainly do not think that any problems should be neglected, especially when it comes to the lack of well-being. I am actually appealing for all the nuances to be included. I am contacted by children and young people, and I also have a number of young people in my own household who tell me what it's like to be a child and a young person when you're through a global pandemic with the consequences it has. But I am also experiencing children and young people who, as I said before, bear with pride the burden that you carry as a society when you are going through a global pandemic. Anyway, we're gonna have all the kids and kids back to school. When it is not possible at the moment that all children and young people are left with a full schedule, as some parties have recommended, it is because we are standing right where many other countries are now entering a third wave and shutting down their society. We're reopening. And when there is a great risk, if we move too quickly, that we potentially compromise what we have achieved and enter a third wave, it will still be wiser to move forward in steps so that we do not risk the third wave, which could lead to a new shutdown of Denmark. I think we should avoid that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131059	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131101	So where it has been argued in the past that an outbreak of infection in Ishøj meant that the children could not go to school on Samsø, it is now argued that outbreaks of infection in the Czech Republic mean that the children cannot go to school on Lolland-Falster. This is an exciting development. Others, too, are miserable. It is our business, the liberal professions, the small self-employed. We in the Left also believe that they should be allowed to run their business. A lot of people are on the verge of bankruptcy. This could cost thousands of Danish jobs. And in the party leader's debate last Thursday, I asked the Prime Minister again whether the Prime Minister will guarantee that there will be no further tax increases during the rest of the government period or rather the parliamentary term. I hope they will be coincidental. And if you count on them, it is true that there will be tax increases of 12 billion. kr. Towards 2025. So I would just simply ask the Prime Minister for a guarantee that taxes and duties will not be raised further for the rest of this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131207	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131209	I must be honest and say that I do not understand the polemical approach to the health authorities in this country. The health authorities that advise the Folketing and the government are doing as well as they can. And what the authorities say to us when we sit in the room together is that there is a risk of too rapid reopening. That's what the calculations show. That is what reality shows. Norway is currently in the worst situation at any point in the epidemic, at least as far as Oslo is concerned; Finland is shut down; Germany reported yesterday that it might now be in Germany right where the third wave starts. There are a number of European countries that are shutting down. We're somewhere else in Denmark, fortunately. I believe that we must do everything we can together to avoid a third wave of further decommissioning. In fact, I believe that everything we are doing now must result in us not having the need for decommissioning in Denmark again. And the combination of testing and reopening wisely and securely makes it possible to avoid it, but there is a risk if you open up too soon and too soon. And we must be careful to run that risk, because we are in fact in danger of hitting both children and young people, but also the business community that the President of the Left is talking about here, even harder.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131325	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. The next party leader to ask questions to the Prime Minister is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131342	Thank you, and thank the Prime Minister for his opening words. On Thursday it was the 1st anniversary of the decommissioning, which is why it is no wonder that we are trying to look back a little to see what has actually been in force. And one of the lessons we can learn from the past year's time and also from recent months is that we have been positively surprised by the way the Danes deal with this, in general. Well, we talk a lot about the pockets and especially immigrant environments where things are going, but in general the Danes have been exemplary in fighting this pandemic. It has been desprited, it has been kept away, it has been met with very few people to the extent that we are told that the forecasts which are constantly used to justify how much we can reopen are misguided, and thank God we can say that they are wrong on the good side, so there has actually been room to open more, if we had known what we know now, in the past. Therefore, Prime Minister: Is it not with the knowledge and with the joy of the Danes' way of dealing with it that we should actually move forward more quickly? Is it not the confidence we can show the Danes: that one can actually be together and take into account so that we can also open up more? To what the Prime Minister has just said, that the school is now open to the school children in the 5th-8th grade: Ah, that is, in many places they must come, and yesterday it was 1 day, and then they must come 1 day next week, and then it is Easter, and then in 3 weeks we are talking about whether they may be allowed to meet a little more often, right? The liberal professions that are closed down: Apparently we do not dare, the Prime Minister does not dare, that the hairdresser gets a visit from one customer at a time, stands with visors and drunks off and cleans after every customer and stuff. The Prime Minister does not dare; the Prime Minister does not trust it to work. My question is really: will the Prime Minister not underestimate the secondary effects of decommissioning and become so cautious and not recognise the way the Danes have acted that they are actually keeping more shut than they need when we talk about the possibility of opening something more up in three weeks' time next time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131547	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131548	See, to the whole introduction, I want to say that I am with you all the way, and how nice it was to hear a party leader standing here saying: Denmark is doing well. And there is reason to be proud of what we have achieved, because there is no reason to make any advances to talk Denmark into a black hole. We've done well. The Danes have done well. We are again in a place where we stand better than most other countries. We should, of course, in a completely different way from what we are capable of in this House, namely collectively, collectively enjoy what we have succeeded in doing. Imagine the thousands of people who come in every single day to pounce, to vaccinate, to make sure that our infrastructure works! Let us welcome everything that we can do in Denmark. I think it's very much due to that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl points out that although it has now been 1 year, and even though the Danes say in polls that you are tired of this situation and this crisis we all are. We are stuck in, and we are stuck in, and we are holding our distance from each other, and we are not meeting with very many people, we are all trying to do it as well as we can at all. And yes, because it has gone so well throughout the winter too, we may well be in a situation where we can open up faster than we had dared to hope for, just like last spring. So yes, it is an undertaking that this is actually the way I think it will work. How nice it is to experience some joy in everything that succeeds in this country. The Danes deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131711	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131713	We must remember that, and then we must also meet the Danes when they show it. In other words, decommissioning is like a magnifying glass, which means that the problems that exist are enlarged, and the Prime Minister must understand that every day costs. It costs the economy for the liberal professions that are closed down, for example. It costs on the well-being of our young people, compared to our elderly, that is, our elderly, who have not had a normal activity week as they were used to, and who make them really shrink when they sit there in their own apartment and look into the wall instead of coming to singing or come to dinner together with the Older Case, or whatever else you've been used to going to. And when we look at this, like Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen also mentioned, and looking at the people who work with these vulnerable, these vulnerable, and that is, whether it's children and young people or it's our seniors and our seniors, it's a quote from quote on quotes gradually about the problems that exist. I just have to say to the Prime Minister: every day costs, and the problems are getting bigger and bigger for these people, and what you have to pick up afterwards is getting more and more. And that is why I ask the Prime Minister not just to wait for three weeks, but to see why there is no room now to give back more Danes normality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131824	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131825	It is true that decommissioning costs, as does the pandemic for the people who have lost their lives, the families who have lost their loved ones, the employees of, for example, those who have lost their lives. The health service, which has worked far too much and has been infected along the way, has not been able to take care of itself, as the epidemic also raged over Denmark. It also comes with a price. The closure comes with a price, the pandemic comes with a price. And that's why we're in the process of reopening. Because if you were only to look at it through coronabrills, you would certainly continue to be shut down, but we have not done that at any time in Denmark. After all, we constantly have an eye on the fight against infection, the management of the epidemic, the economy, our mental health, which has always been emergency care for children, for example, and I could go on. Now, in fact, to end up in the same place as before: If we keep keeping the infection as well as we have been able to do up to now over the past few weeks, many weeks it is now, combined with giving the Danes the opportunity to have a more and more common life without getting to infect others, i.e. by still being tested away or if you have received the vaccination, then I think we are in a situation where we can open up faster, wider and more than I thought only a few weeks ago. So it is a commitment that this is the way in which we continue the negotiations, and it sounds like we can make an agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131947	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316131949	Yeah, I sure hope we can. But the Prime Minister would like to make an agreement in a week, which will then primarily enter into force in 3 weeks and then. There I am talking about the costs we can see in relation to children and young people in terms of self-harm and psychological problems, and about the challenges we can see in our area of older people, for example. Older People The 12,000 people in the case are out to help perhaps 50,000 of the most vulnerable elderly who really need someone to come and help them. So, in relation to the costs that are, it is of course a matter of balance. The Prime Minister keeps relying on us to keep this infection in control and something like that. I fully agree with that, but what I started by saying was that what we have been able to learn over the past year, especially in the last few months, is that the behaviour of the Danes is better than that of the health authorities in the forecasts to us politicians. This means that when we stand here today, Tuesday, looking back at the last few months, we can see that there had quite rightly been room to hold, for example. open outdoor activities to a greater extent. There had probably been an opportunity to bring back more schoolchildren at an earlier time. This is the lesson that I am just asking the Prime Minister to take with us when we then assess whether we need to wait until in three weeks' time to open up, or whether it really should be said that there was something that could actually be opened in the next three weeks, so that more Danes could have a normal life again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132109	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132111	What is important to say is that if we had not had restrictions here in the second wave, I do not believe that we would have had the levels of infection we have today. Of course, things are connected. But it has gone well, and it has also gone better than I had dared to hope for. And there I agree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in that the behaviour and behaviour of the Danes play a very, very important role. And in parentheses, it seems that no matter how tough the discussion is at Christiansborg, and no matter how much disagreements there are here, the Danes just stick and ignore us in here, and it is good in a situation where we need all Danes to support us through the pandemic. So there is really, really very good to say, and on top of that, just to make the picture potentially even better, there are still more Danes being vaccinated, and there are still more Danes being tested several times a week. Today, too, we have very, very high test figures, and all that helps us to keep things under control and thus open up more than many other countries that are currently shutting down. Therefore, we may also be able to move forward when we can open more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132220	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. The next party leader is the party leader of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. A careful watch is being kept to ensure that the alcohol is properly desprited. There is. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132236	Thank you. In fact, I think this debate is extremely constructive and good. In fact, I think we can reach each other and that we may also be able to do a little more faster in the PM's own words. At least I think we all wish we could. But I would really like to talk about a subject that we do not normally discuss here in the Danish Parliament, i.e. "X Factor.' Last Friday, the programme focused on the hate speech that participants and judges unfortunately experience on social media, bullying and hoaxing, which unfortunately is part of many Danes' everyday lives when they go online. It hurt the heart to hear the young woman Ida breathe relieved when she had to leave the program; she was relieved because she had been subjected to massive bullying and hatred on the web. I can't believe you have to breathe up when your dream is actually shattered and you're sent out. But the young must lay their backs on much like: Go home to Africa; you seem very disgusting and false; you are the ugliest thing I have seen for a long time. It's crazy, and I think the worst thing about this is that ordinary Danes are also exposed to this on social media, among other things. If they follow us politicians, especially the young. We learn, from a very small age, that bullying is wrong and as adults we have a responsibility not to create a culture in which such things are in order. You would never tell a stranger on the street or in the library, and I am worried about what it does to young people when they grow up in a culture where these things just happen freely on the Internet. That's why we need to talk about what kind of public conversation we want to have with each other. This is a difficult debate, because we cannot legislate out of everything. I do not believe that. And where do we go the limits of what crazy statements we have to talk about in a democracy? And what is real digital violence? How do we ensure and ensure that victims are followed up? I do not have the answers, but we may find them together, and that is why my first question to the Prime Minister is: can we give a promise to the many young people who are exposed to a hateful tone on the Internet that we are listening? And will the Prime Minister help define digital violence and ensure that when they approach, the victims are actually heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132458	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132459	This is an extremely important discussion, and I also sat on Friday and watched at least parts of the 'X Factor' and then, you might say, both the discussion that has been about the programme, but also the end, and it hurts me just as much, and I think it has gone too far. I believe that the way we discuss with each other on the social media in Denmark is complacent, and it has increased and grown rapidly here recently, and it affects a great many people. After all, it affects health professionals who are exposed to specks because they are trying to help society through the corona crisis, and here we are dealing with very young people who want to sing and who are exposed to one and the other and the third. It has gone too far, and we need to discuss what we are doing about it, and it seems that it is not enough to appeal to a good and proper tone between us, what really ought to be enough, and that is why I think we need to take the next steps: what about a publisher's responsibility? Can we continue to accept that the tech giants say that they have no responsibility for what is being expressed when there are statements of the nature that are? I think that is an important discussion and we could take the lead here. We could agree with each other that we do not disclose information about each other, that is wrong, that we do not use fake news, that we do not use words that are derogatory or otherwise in fact destroy the political discussion we must have between each other here. Because I have been here for almost 20 years, and I have never seen a political debate of the nature that I sometimes hear and can look at social media in the Chamber. So we could take the lead in this house and show the good example, that is, that one can disagree and that one can be critical, but that one is on a factual and on a proper basis. Around young people, I would very much like to discuss what we need to do in concrete terms, but we need to get to grips with what is at least part of the core of this, namely that today there are many opportunities to express ourselves without anyone saying that what is out of line and that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132652	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132654	I am pleased to hear that, and I am also pleased to hear that the Prime Minister has the same concerns, because these are real concerns that actually undermine our democracy. It is extremely dangerous when we cannot have a conversation on factual terms. We've seen it in the United States, where it went all wrong. We also see it elsewhere, among other things. in Europe. We actually see it sometimes in Denmark too. I am happy to make some joint commitment with each other that we will have another political dialogue. I think that's very important. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister is open to discussing solutions to this problem. My next question is far from being about Friday entertainment... that was the first thing, in fact, not even in Syria... and this is about the children in Syria. I don't think I need any picturesque descriptions to tell you how these kids are doing right now. They find themselves in an everyday life of violence, mental harm, which feels them for life. Many say that parents have made a choice, and they are right. The parents have joined a cult of death that held slaves. So have the women, so I can easily see the dilemmas, but do the children have to pay the price? I do not think so. I think we have a proud tradition of not letting the children pay for the actions of the parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132807	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132809	I do not believe that there are children who should pay the price, and here we are dealing with parents who have made a very active choice and travelled from Denmark against Denmark's wishes and joined the Islamic State. Therefore, adults do not belong in Denmark. There is no home for them to return to. In my view, they have nothing to do with Denmark. In doing so, they have placed their children in a quite terrible, not only dilemma, but also a place in life where no children should be. As Mrs Pia Olesen Dyhr knows, we have said that there may be some humanitarian conditions that make us want to help a child, but we do not want to help warriors of the Islamic State. We do not want to help people who have potentially committed terrorism in the name of Islamic State. I would like to see in situations where it is necessary to help the children, but I simply do not see the right thing in that people who are so much against Denmark and who have left Denmark have to return here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132909	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132910	I do not think that children should be held responsible for the actions of parents, and that is why I think we should take them home. But if you look at the other side of what the Prime Minister is also talking about, i.e. this with certainty and terror, then PET's latest assessment says that the future terrorist threat to Denmark has increased by allowing these children to grow up under neglect and radicalisation, as does the Center for Terror Analysis. On Saturday it was read in the Ekstrabladet that the Islamic State has begun to kidnap and recruit children from Syrian camps. So if we do not necessarily talk about the children, should we not agree to put Denmark's safety first and therefore bring the children home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132951	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316132952	After all, we have discussed this group of Islamic State supporters and warriors and their children many times. But aren't we going to have to have a part in the discussion? If that's what the SF is suggesting... that all the parents go home too? Because if you just listen to the debate, you can get the impression that there are some political parties that say that we can take those children, some of which were not born in Denmark • it is part of the story and move them to Denmark. But is it not true that what really lies in the SF's proposal is that if the prerequisite for doing so is for their parents to be included, then you are also willing to do so? I think that may be part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133034	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. The next party leader is Radical Left party leader, and that is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133052	Thank you, President. I would like to follow up where Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr left off, because right now Danish children are sitting in a camp which, I think, is more like the courtyard of hell. They sit there for one reason and I think we agree with that: their parents. These are people who have betrayed Denmark and have gone to war for Islamists. And I'm completely incomprehensible about how you as a parent can expose your children to such things. It makes me basically angry that there are people who only want to hurt our country, but at the same time I insist that we put the children first, always. Therefore, I really hope that, across our differences and party colours, we can at least agree, firstly, that children are children, that they are innocent regardless of their parents' actions, and that Danish children are Denmark's responsibility. If we leave the children, as has also been said, there is a real risk that they will end up as terrorists of tomorrow. That's what our own intelligence service is assessing. Secondly, I hope that we can agree that terrorism and treason against our country must be brought to justice and that it is more dangerous that we have terrorists in insecure camps where they can be recruited for new violence. They must be punished. It's about the safety of all of us. There is also a new development, because from all over Europe it is now said: stand by your responsibilities. There are a number of other countries that face reality and bring their children home and prosecute their parents for treason. The Norwegian centre-right government does, and if they can, a Danish government can also, not least now that it is just reported that in September PET warned four ministries that the children in the Kurdish camps are being kidnapped by IS. Therefore my question is: Does the Prime Minister know that Danish children are at risk of being kidnapped by the Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133304	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133306	What may be classified material in this area, of course, I cannot comment on, nor do I speak on individual cases at all. I agree with many of the speeches here: contempt for the people who have joined the Islamic State, concern for the children and the risk of children being in the camps, but of course also given the risk that children may be in other places. I agree with very large parts of that analysis. But I have to ask the same question, namely whether this means that the Radical Left wants families to go to Denmark. Because if we're gonna have this discussion with each other, there's no point pretending anything. There are plenty of things that are unresolved, and we do not even know if you can, so to speak, just take some children, and I must assume that it is both children who were born in Denmark, but also children who were not born in Denmark and who have never been here. We must not pretend, I think, that we can guarantee the Danes that this does not mean that the families follow. So I simply have to ask the other way too, because I really want to help the children. I have no wish for those children to be in those camps, but I simply do not see why those people are going back to Denmark. I don't think they have anything to do here. I do not think we should let them put their feet on Danish soil if we can avoid it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133433	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133435	I'm not gonna go tuck it in. I've been giving an interview about the parents being prosecuted. It's the mothers that are going home here. On the other hand, I am not using it to ask counter-questions instead of answering them. So I ask again: can the Prime Minister live with Danish children being kidnapped by IS?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133454	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133456	No, I have no wish that any children should. I cannot go further into a discussion about what may be classified material in this area, but of course I have no wish that there are children who should. I have no desire at all for anyone to support the Islamic State. I am also trying to point out in today's debate that it is people who have at some point had a stay in Denmark and, for some people, have had a great deal of association with Denmark and who have left and have joined a terrorist organisation in order to combat Denmark. I think that, on behalf of the Danes, I have to say that when you do so, that is, when you go across our borders and actively join the worst terrorist regime we have seen for many, many years, you cannot return. Then there are some challenges surrounding the children, and we have said from the government that there may be humanitarian conditions that make us help some children. But it can be said that, unlike the Radical Left, we do not want families to be able to come back through their children if we can avoid it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133557	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133559	But that is where you have to answer for that dilemma. The Norwegian bourgeois prime minister, Erna Solberg, has taken a child and a mother home and has said just as the Prime Minister said she wants none of the people home, but also said that she cannot morally have it sitting on her if something happened to the Norwegian children in Syria, and therefore she has taken a mother and a child home. And the mother is being prosecuted now in Norway. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is again: Can the Prime Minister live with it if something happens to a Danish child?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133636	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133638	It is a rather special question to have, because we can all be in a situation where there is a child who somehow has a connection with Denmark who is exposed to something we do not want. This is true at home, where there are parents who do not treat their children properly, and that is true outside, and we all live with that, all 179 members, every day. There are, for example: children who are not being placed and who should be placed. There are also some of those who do not come through that childhood alive, and there are Danish children who live with serious, serious I would like to repeat what I said before: there are plenty of dilemmas in this, and one will not hear me say that it is unproblematic that those children are in those camps, but that also applies to all the other children who are there. The parents should have thought about this before they went to war for the Islamic State and turned their backs on Denmark. It is not me, it is no one here in the Folketing, it is not the people of Denmark who have asked these women and men to turn their backs on Denmark. They have done so themselves, and they let their children pay a price for it. This is completely incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133742	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and thank you to Mrs Carsten Nielsen, also for preparing the speaker desk for the next questioner. This is Enhedslisten's party leader, Mrs. Mai Villadsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316133800	The employees of our welfare and health care have worn and dragged during the corona crisis. It has led several parties to talk about how nice it is that the employees are so ultra-flexible and that we need more of that. I think that is the wrong conclusion. I believe that over the last year we have learned that, in our well-being at all, there are employees who have far too many tasks in relation to what is the time. The flexibility that many parties now see as having to be more of, in fact, covers the fact that many nurses and sosus and others have changed shift schedules at the last minute, that people at extremely short notice have been assigned to tasks in which they do not or do not feel safe, and that there has been understaffing really, very many places. And instead of perhaps something more in the payroll that thanks some of them have got honey hearts. Front personnel in our welfare were already before the corona crisis, I believe, stretched out very far and in many places thinly. It is evident from the fact that we find it very difficult to recruit nurses, sosus, midwives and many other professional groups, and that is a problem for all of us. We need to create better working conditions for welfare workers, and they need to be able to rely on us as politicians to do what we can to ensure that there are enough hands to solve the problems. And I also believe that there must be better conditions and proper pay for the lowest paid. Therefore, I would like to hear what the Prime Minister will do to give nurses, sosus and other skilled employees in our welfare better working conditions and proper recognition, so that we do not risk, yes, being without proper employees in our welfare in the future, and so that we can get more people to work there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134007	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134008	I might start by saying that there are a lot of Danes who have worked hard over the past year to get us through this. So do the private employees in the shops, and so do the private drivers. There are many of us to be credited with getting through this crisis well, both in the public and in the private sectors. What I really experience first and foremost when I talk to health workers I had the opportunity to be at Herlev's hospital last week is pride before anything else; a huge professional pride that you have gotten Denmark through this crisis, even if you have worked over and got your Christmas holiday involved and have broken down professional boundaries and have worked too much in periods and have been infected with corona yourself, because we have not been able to take care of them properly, i.e. first and foremost a huge pride; and also an incredible joy at the exact flexibility, i.e. that doctor and sosu during the pandemic had to stand right next to each other. You didn't have time to make the decisions you used to make, because things just had to roll. I believe that the flexibility that this implies is also very, very proud of many health professionals. Then there is the question of how we recognise it in the right way. Salary is a matter for collective agreements in Denmark, and this has been the case for many years. I think there is reason to hold on to it. And that is what we want to do, at least by the government. I believe that what we could do together, and I would very much like to invite you to do so, is to ensure that our staff in the health service, as well as other sectors of the public sector, can in future be allowed to spend more time on what is their professional task: patients and relatives, when we speak health care, children, when we speak educators and day care institutions, pupils when we speak primary school, instead of bureaucracy, paperwork and too heavy processes, which I think hinder the public sector from using the professionalism that employees represent. But I do not want to negotiate wages in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I have very, very much respect for the Danish labour market model and want it to stand, even after the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134209	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134211	In fact, I would like to stick to the issue of pay, even though the Prime Minister does not think that this is something we should talk about politically. After all, there are a great many employees in the so-called women's professions in welfare who have a hard job under a great deal of responsibility, but with a relatively low salary. It is, after all, lower than in a number of positions which can be compared in terms of length of training, responsibility, perhaps also on competence. This is partly due to the fact that back in 1969 the so-called civil service reform was carried out, which placed traditional women's occupations with a salary lower than traditional men's occupations. In other words, it is politically determined how wages are placed, including in Denmark, and therefore it should also be a political task to get something done about it. We have already proposed that equal pay pools should be created in order to increase wages in these professions, but today there is a citizens' proposal which has received 50,000 signatures; a citizens' proposal which is precisely about abolishing this civil service reform. We in the Enhedslisten warmly support it. We shall vote in favour. What's the government doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134318	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134320	I have not had the opportunity to see that proposal, so I cannot give my opinion on it on a stand-by basis. I think this discussion is interesting, i.e. what the historical explanations are about, that some subjects are recognised differently from others. If I'm going to point out another challenge, one of the staff groups that all of Denmark has benefited from through this crisis is those who clean. And if they hadn't cleaned up and had met in many hours along the way in the crisis, then we have given stood a worse place in dealing with the pandemic. After all, this is not a group that is traditionally recognised by quite a lot of people. By the way, there are also many men who work in that industry. It is just to say that I think there are a lot of people whose work we should recognise more, get more into the light and thank you for the work that is being done. In general terms, I would warn against negotiating other people's salaries when we are in the Chamber. There is a reason why Denmark is a strong, rich society, and I believe that one of the reasons for this is our labour market model, where agreements are negotiated between the social partners. However, I would like to continue a discussion and how we are to organise it now, on the question of what the historical explanations are about, that professions are recognised differently. I think that is very, very relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134433	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134435	That is relevant, and now we will have the discussion here in Parliament. I hope that the government will do its job and think that the reform of the civil service must go away. Finally, I would like to ask something else. As the Prime Minister well knows, there are 19 Danish children sitting in prison camps in Syria living in dire conditions. One is a four-year-old girl who has now been diagnosed with ptsd. The government keeps saying that we can hear it again and again here in Parliament that it is the responsibility of the parents. It is simply incomprehensible to me that the government will punish children for the actions of their parents. I also find it incomprehensible that the government does not choose to act on this when there is an assessment from PET that children pose a greater safety risk to all of us by staying down there. I know the Prime Minister has been asked many times before, but we keep on in the Enhedsliste asking and pushing because these kids are going home. So I would like to hear: when the prime minister calls himself the prime minister of the children, why does the prime minister not act and bring these children home instead of turning his back on them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134547	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134549	I don't want to sit on me and turn my back on them. In general, I do not want all the allegations that are being made in the political debate to be left with me. It's not the government, it's not the Folketing, it's not the Danish people who are punishing these children. Their parents have made a choice to join the Islamic State... Islamic State! By the way, some of them are people who have come here with their families and whom we have given shelter. And the way they have shown their gratitude to Denmark is then trying to fight us. Well, not just with words and with thoughts and philosophy, but with terror. That is what we are talking about, and we have to be honest with the Danes and say that if there is a risk that families will come to Denmark, what I don't think they should be doing because their children might have to go to Denmark, then we have to have a collective discussion about this. Because I want to help these children in one way or another, and we have helped. We are already helping in the camps, and we have also helped some children quite specifically. But to do something that makes these parents come here, I am more than generally concerned about, because I do not think they have anything to do with Denmark anymore. And that is the dilemma. Not our desire to help those kids, because those kids need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134705	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen also for preparing the speaker desk for the next party leader who has questions for the Prime Minister. It's the party leader of the Conservatives, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134723	Then it's mad again: Short and terrain doesn't fit together. We sat with the mines laid in serious folds, all the party leaders, and heard that the opening that was under way could mean 870 inlaid worst case, said some. Others said it wasn't worst case at all. Fortunately, it turns out that things are going in a much better direction than we had seen. There are few inmates. 211 is the last figure I have ever heard of. I hope we agree that 211 hospitalized people are not something like pressure on the Danish hospital system. I really hope we agree on that. If you look at it and try to divide it into the number of hospitals, then I hope no one will claim that it is causing the hospitals to fall over. There are 21 days to 6 April, which is the next focus point that is here. Twenty-one days, when we could do a lot if we wanted to, especially in view of the fact that reality looks like one thing, but the political majority sees some other things. So I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether the government and the support parties, which she usually has quite well under control, could not move and say: we have to admit that reality seems to be different, so let us adjust a little on the plan we have made before we take the next step on 6 April. This isn't a theory for everyone; it's a reality for many people. So could it not be considered to take that step?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134911	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316134913	Now, for good reasons, I cannot explain what the other parties think about this matter. But I would think that the parties are going to this work in the same way that the parties have gone to work all the time, namely that if there is a better opportunity to open up further, then there will also be a political desire and a willingness to do so. And that's how the reopening has been all the way through Denmark. And you can say that in relation to the calculations and the whole discussion about the scenarios, they will always be surrounded by uncertainty. That's what the authorities say when they come forward. One cannot accurately predict how a virus breeds or develops. What we see, on the other hand, and it has not filled so much the debate today, but I think I have to be the one who brings it into space, after all, is how the third wave is currently coming across Europe. And suddenly shut down again is being discussed in Italy, in France, in Norway and in Finland. In Germany you may be entering a third wave. We have a number of Eastern European countries that need to borrow health professionals from other countries. We have a very serious situation in several places, so we're not out of corona yet, and we haven't vaccinated enough to just open up. That is why we still have to do it in a way that does not risk the third wave. Whether that means that things are absolutely firm as they are now, that is to say, they do not necessarily have to do so. And there is reason to be happy that things are going better in Denmark again than what we had almost dared to hope for. And as I said to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl earlier: If it appears possible to do things in Denmark faster, it would be wise to do so. After all, we have negotiations right now, and I hope so, so that we can also make a broad agreement on how we can ensure that we can continue to have a safe hand, even when we open up much more than is the case today. And then you might just have to remember that a lot has been opened up in Denmark, and I think the Danes are quite happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135117	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135119	I think they are, and I am full of optimism and positiveness and delight in everything that has been opened up. There should be no doubt about that, and I hope that we will agree. But I'm gonna ask you if I understood the PM correctly. Did the opening negotiations say that it is only from 6 April onwards, or have I heard today that the Prime Minister is opening the door for us to open up more by April? I fully agree that the Prime Minister cannot, of course, decide what the support parties think, but it might be quite interesting if the Minister here today announced that something more will be opened up by 6 April, because I did not hear that entirely from the answer. After all, we all expect the children to come back to school on 6 April, and now they are going a few times for a week, and that is what it is, but then you could take the opportunity to do something about the extremely distorting state of competition with the fact that the shops in the pedestrian streets are open while the shops in the centres are closed. It hits them crazy, and now there is a payment of the holiday money right here for Easter, and there are some shops that may not benefit very much, so there is one way to get to grips with that. Well, maybe that's a small thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135223	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135224	Thank you for referring to the good deal we have made together on the holiday money. It is, after all, another product of a broad political agreement, in which we would like to see those parts of the Danish economy that are not going to get off the ground. Every crisis hits different places, and we have agreed to release the holiday money, of course in the hope of • now to say it as it is that the Danes swing their Dankort, MobilePay or cash, or whatever they do, and come out and spend money, so there are more people coming into work. Moreover, there are indications that this is already happening, for when we opened up shops, some positive trends in employment statistics could be seen immediately afterward. So I would also like as much as possible to be open when the Danes receive their holiday money. There is a political agreement that will run until 6 April and, of course, the parties behind that agreement will assess whether there may be anything that can be opened up at an earlier stage. And, of course, if we can do that, it would be natural to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135332	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135335	I would then like to make an appeal, not on my own behalf, but on behalf of those people who are about to go into desperation that their shop is bleeding and that they are going bankrupt in a moment. We may be sitting in here saying it's only three weeks, but it's three weeks on top of a year when they've been shut down for a lot of time. Well, it hasn't gone as wrong as you thought. Afterschools and high schools are a small but important example. They could not open at all when we were negotiating, but 14 days later they opened with an assessment that it might cost five extra inlaid five extra! That's what I don't understand. I just want to end with an appeal and say that you are some heroes and that I thank you on behalf of all the people who do not go bankrupt if you let the stores open by 6 April. Let's give them something. And I hope that the Prime Minister will really consider it and discuss it with the conciliation parties so that we help those people. We who sit in here have ours on the dry side, but there are some people who are deeply pressured on their lives and earnings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135443	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135445	I don't really think anyone in here thinks that 3 weeks doesn't matter when you're a small trader or for that matter when you're a school child. We know that this is of enormous importance to the people involved. Fortunately, we have managed to hold hands together during quite a lot of times through this crisis with the big aid packages that have been made, but yes, people are pressed around. We also need to deal with what can happen if we become too impatient too quickly. Now it sounds like if you can just open a little bit, all parties in the Folketing are happy, but so, there have been many desires to open up very much at a very early stage. What will it mean for Danish business if there is a third wave and we are forced to shut down completely again? Can it really be worse for Danish industry than what we are looking into now, namely a gradual phasing-out of restrictions with the help that companies need at the same time? So I appeal for a balance to be struck, and I hope that this Question Time has not allowed us to talk away from each other, because we are discussing a long-term reopening plan, and it is also being called for by many, for example. in the business world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135554	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, also to prepare for the next party leader, and this is New Citizens' Party leader. Welcome to Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135604	The Somali terrorist, who receives 11 years ago broke into Kurt Westergaard's home and attacked him with an axe, was then sentenced to a 10-year prison sentence and expulsion from Denmark. He has served his sentence, but the expulsion has still not taken place. He is still in Denmark, and he is, because the Danish authorities believe it is too dangerous for him to travel to Somalia. That is simply absurd. The number of people sentenced to expulsion, who are still in Denmark, is increasing. Since 1 January 2019, the number of convicted criminal foreigners who remain in Denmark has increased by 33 per cent. I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister thinks that is acceptable and what the government intends to do about it in concrete terms. The fact is that if the government does not do anything, if it does not solve the problem, the government will break with fundamental democratic principles. In Denmark, it is the Folketing and the government that pass the laws, and the courts judge according to the law. Then it is the government's fundamental duty to ensure that the word of the court is put into practice. If a criminal is sentenced to prison, it is the government's responsibility to ensure that the criminal goes to prison. If a criminal is fined, it is the government's duty to ensure that the fine is recovered. And if a criminal is sentenced to expulsion, it is the government's duty to ensure that the criminal leaves the country in one way or another. So when the government fails to fulfil its responsibility to enforce the judgments handed down by the Danish courts, it violates the fundamental principle of the division of power, and that is unfortunately the situation we find ourselves in. I know the Prime Minister will probably answer that the government is doing everything it can to get these people out of the country, but that's just not good enough. I need to know what the government intends to do in concrete terms and when the Danes can expect criminal foreigners who are sentenced to expulsion to no longer walk freely in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135812	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135814	There should be no doubt whatsoever that I and the government are in favour of the strictest rules of expulsion as possible, and if you are using a stay in Denmark, and that is why you have to be here, to commit serious crimes of one kind or another. This is extremely serious crime. Yes, in my view, you have to leave Denmark, because then you have terminated the contract you have entered into with the Danish community, and I do not think you have anything to do here anymore. That is what our policy is based on, and I hope that future governments will do so, and that, moreover, we will do everything we can at all possible levels to deport people. That is within the framework of our international commitments, and that is where the disagreement is. I do not think we have a political disagreement as to whether foreigners who commit serious crime should leave Denmark, because they should, and they should. But this government, like all other governments in the history of Denmark, and I think it is also the right thing for Denmark, has chosen that we do not cancel international commitments, even in cases where they oppose us, which they do from time to time. It then has some challenges in relation to the fact that there are people who cannot be sent out of here, and then you have to come into contact with the restrictions that are then there. And the previous bourgeois government fought in this area, and this government will do the same, and we will do everything we possibly can within the rules that are now in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135946	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316135948	Thanks for the answer, but this is a terror-judged Somali man. It's totally, totally absurd. I agree that, as previous governments, the government has completely subjected itself to an activist court in Strasbourg and has no view that it must of course be the right of the Danes to live freely in our own country. It cannot be the case that an activist court outside the country's borders, without respect for our national self-determination, can be allowed to set the agenda for how we should live together in freedom and security in Denmark. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if at least the government could not be open to a temporary solution... a solution that will ensure that the Danes sow, if you can't get rid of these people, after all, can live freely without having these people walking among them; a solution that will ensure that these people stay somewhere until they can leave, not in a prison, but in an exit centre where there is only one door out, and that's the door out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140046	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140048	I have to repeat what I said before: that this government, like all other governments which have been in Denmark to me, has chosen not only to adhere to the international rules of the game, but also to respect them, even in cases where they oppose us. This leaves us with some problems, because I do not think there is anything that really justifies a person convicted of such a serious crime being able to claim the right to remain in Denmark at all. I simply disagree with the international rules of play in this area. There are a number of people who are at ease, moreover handed down by the bourgeois government, who also could not, as it were, send out everyone. There has been our position so far, and it is still the case that everything we can do to shield the Danish people from the people in question must be done, including with an exit centre, which already exists. But if what Mrs Pernille Vermund is asking is whether we can incarcerate a person who cannot, you might say, be detained in the Danish courts, then the answer is no. We can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140200	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140202	I've told you about Cecilie before. Cecilie was beaten, humiliated and raped by a 17-year-old Somali citizen when she was on her way home on a late spring evening. He was convicted, but he was not expelled because it would be contrary to our international obligations. So he received his fourth warning. The Prime Minister said then, and I quote: 'I have no understanding that a Danish hospitality is being exchanged for rape, gang crime or drug trafficking. So we would also like to expel more. This led me to pass on the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, i.e. how it was to happen. And the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration replied to me that it is actually possible to expel such a rapist and to take the reservations of the Danish law on the Convention on Human Rights which is due. But the government will not, the Minister wrote. So what's the next step? How do we get more deported, as the Prime Minister said they would? Because I have to assume that we can take the PM's words at face value.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140310	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140312	In other words, I do not have the opportunity to assess the specific case and the exchange of words that has taken place or the answer that has been given, and that is why the question has to be addressed to the minister responsible. I cannot relate to the specific case, but that is an illustration of the fact that we find that international rules sometimes protect the perpetrator and not the victim. And that is not only a dilemma; it is wrong when the international rules of the game do so. I believe that New Citizens are quite alone in their desire to terminate the international conventions with all the consequences they have, so of course we do not do that on the Danish side either. But what we can do from the Danish side is to go as far as possible in order to have as many people expelled as possible if this kind of crime or other forms of crime are committed, which are also serious. And so will this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140411	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. I would ask Mrs Pernille Vermund to prepare for the next one, because there will be another party leader, and that is the party leader of the alternative, Mr. Torsten Gejl, who is the last party leader to have the opportunity to ask questions to the Prime Minister during this Question Time. Welcome to sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140439	Thank you, President. Every time we have a question from one of our Members, and I start with that today. It is by Kim Hjerrild who is a member of the Citizen's Representation in Copenhagen. He refers to the fact that I asked the Prime Minister last hour about the climate and environmental challenges of the major project in Copenhagen, which we call Lynetteholmen. I did not get an answer to that, but I could understand that the Prime Minister is overjoyed with the Lynetteholm project. The project concerns the construction of the island of Lynetteholm, the construction of an eastern ring road, a harbour tunnel, a new metro, the relocation of a sewage treatment plant, etc. It is a project which totals 50-72 billion. kr. It is therefore the largest project ever made in Denmark, surpassed only by the huge energy island that we build in the North Sea and which is finished in 2033, I think. So it's really, really a lot of money to spend just in Copenhagen. The project was presented by Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Frank Jensen in October 2018. It was said here that it would run roughly around. Now the project has become 50%. More expenditure, and on the basis of the figures that have been presented to us so far on expenditure and revenue relating to the whole project, we can see that there is likely to be a shortage of 30 to 50 billion. kr. in the project's economy. Normally, it is claimed that such projects run around, and when it starts, it is often much more expensive than budgeted. We've tried that many times. The project lacks 30-50 billion. kr., already before it is started. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that the Lynetteholm project will not also be carried out in addition to the fact that it will, of course, be a huge climate and environmental burden? a major economic scandal that future generations will have to pay off for the rest of their lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140621	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140623	I have alone spoken about the overall and visionary nature of Lynetteholmen. I have no preconditions for entering into a detailed discussion on that construction project. There I have to refer to the ministers responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140635	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140637	But now the government is making a major infrastructure plan... it's on its way. May I ask whether it is the case that the Lynetteholm project is part of it, and if so, and the government matches the 112 billion price tag. kr., which the bourgeois government put on the infrastructure plan, then Copenhagen will easily eat one third of the overall plan. Well, it's interesting for the whole country, it's a national policy. Can the Prime Minister confirm whether this is part of the future infrastructure plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140713	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140715	It is quite true that in this spring we will be discussing infrastructure. It is a long-term and large plan, and that is how we make multiannual infrastructure plans in Denmark. And when we are ready to publish what is our reflection before we start the discussion with the parties of the Folketing, then we are presenting what is our proposal, and so it is not yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140737	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140742	That didn't make me much smarter. Then I'll try something completely different. A quite different question in a completely different ball street: the murder of a 33-year-old woman in London who went home alone has sparked a fierce uprising against abuse and sexual abuse against women in Britain and in general throughout the world. Women around the world talk about how nervous they are to travel in the nightlife and what they do to protect themselves, under the hashtag #textmewhenyougethome. Here, too, in Denmark, stories about women who feel insecure in the nightlife are overflowing. In Britain, there is a lot of talk right now about the need to do more to make nightlife safe, including more street lighting and more near police officers, etc. Not least, however, is the discussion about whether this is the responsibility of the young men, i.e. whether we may need a tremendous effort to raise a group of young men to have a much greater respect for women's lives and lives. What will the government take of measures to ensure a safer nightlife in the cities and perhaps try to change the attitude of the young men?
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140845	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316140847	First of all, thank you very much for bringing that discussion into the Parliamentary Chamber. This could be the next chapter of the necessary debate on equality that we have in our society. I actually think that many were surprised when the metoo wave rolled beyond society, what it is that has actually been hiding in Christiansborg, but also in many other places in our society. It may be that this really has potential for the same thing. Now I'm a woman myself, I'm not going out anymore, but I did once, and it's quite right that whether you're 15 or 25 years old and you're a woman in Denmark, you take precautions. You know that you always have to go with others, even if it has become bright when you go home. You know, you have to puzzle your keys, wear a cell phone and pretend you're talking to your father or your girlfriend or whatever we're making up. And a lot of us who have kids are lying during the night watching the cell phone when they're going home from the party. And that is basically completely and completely unacceptable. And yes, there's culture in this. Everyone has the right to live a safe life, and it doesn't matter whether it's day or night or whether you've been drinking alcohol or not. That is why it is a cultural issue, but it is, of course, also a practical, concrete question about street lighting, for example, that the police are present and, for my sake, also like further monitoring where monitoring can help us. So I think that there are several things that need to be done, but that is also a cultural issue. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316141014	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Torsten Gejl. After that, the Question Time is over. I shall now postpone the sitting for 15 minutes until 1 p.m. 14.25, because it will allow the places to be cleaned straight away. I would therefore ask all party leaders to leave the Chamber in good order. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 14.25.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316142501	The sitting is resumed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316142518	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210316142542	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today at 1 p.m. 14.40. It is in 15 minutes' time, and in the 15 minutes I shall ask Members to leave the Chamber. Voting will be called 15 minutes before the beginning of the sitting.
