ParlaMint-DK_20211125103504	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125103513	The items listed as No. 1 and 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125103519	The vote shall be taken in favour of items 1 and 2 of the agenda. Pursuant to Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure, a majority of three quarters shall be required for such consent and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 100 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT), against which 0 abstained 0. This gives consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125103604	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125103616	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 100 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), against which 0 abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125103640	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125103656	Thank you. As I have said, we support the tripartite agreement on the introduction of Coronaps requirements so that we can keep as high an activity as possible in society and at the same time keep the infection down, because it is about the health of the Danes. And I would just like to clarify the contribution of the Left to the report so that there is no doubt: as long as corona is considered to be a social-critical disease, it meets the objective requirement for the use of coronapas in Danish workplaces. Just this clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125103728	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative, the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125103733	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we are very pleased that there are so many parties involved in our concern that this law on the introduction of coronapas in jobs gives the Minister for Employment the power to lay down rules on what is meant by a coronapas. We think this is a very serious provision, but I am glad that the various parties have been involved in a thorough investigation of this. The Radical Left has been in the ministry asking questions about it to be comforted. The Enhedslisten has analysed the case in particular to ensure that the Minister of Employment would not start tampering with the corona Pass. The Minister has now said twice from the platform orally and on record that he would not use his authority to change the corona Pass and that he would follow fully the recommendations made by the health authorities and the Ministry of Health on what the corona Pass should look like. That's where we still think it would have been okay to just take the opportunity to change it out. We are also pleased that the Danish People's Party has been so thoroughly involved in the discussion and that we have voted in favour of our amendments. All in all, I think there are many parties that have made a great deal of effort to ensure that the Minister for Employment cannot interfere with this coronapa. I trust a hundred percent that's what the government means now. So we've actually been comforted too. We will follow the matter closely and keep an eye on what is happening, and it is clear that if any change in the corona passport were to take place on the part of the Minister for Employment, we will have the Minister's own words to hold it against. In the alternative, we will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125103924	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I should like to know if anyone else wishes to speak. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125103934	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. voted 98 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and ALT), against 4 (NB and FG), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125103957	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104014	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), against which 0 abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104038	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104056	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104121	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104137	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, NB, FG and ALT) voted against 7 (KF), abstention 1 (LA). The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104205	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104219	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104241	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104254	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour of 91 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), against 10 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104321	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104337	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104359	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104412	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour of 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL and KF), against 16 (DF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), abstentions 0.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104436	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104453	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104503	Then the debate is about the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104510	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 57 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), against voting 45 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. We do not have any more votes, so those who do not wish to take part in the debate are asked to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104647	So there is still too much talk in the Chamber. I would ask you to go outside if you are going to talk, too, sir. Bent Bøgsted. We'll start the negotiations. First of all, it is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125104711	Thank you. Just a week ago, I also stood on this platform and there we talked about the fact that we in the Social Democratic Party want to debureaucratise and regulate the public sector and make life easier for employees in the municipalities, but also that citizens must experience a present and meaningful public sector and that we in this Chamber have a great deal of responsibility for the reality of this situation. Last week, it was about the extension of the free community attempt today, it is about the need to make it easier to exchange information in certain public places. This should be done both for the sake of the citizens, they are experiencing a better coordinated and less silot-thinking public sector, but also for employees not to spend the time they have too little on entering, registering and posting in databases. Today's bill contains several suggestions. The first part is not exactly a new break, but a correction to correct an inappropriate consequence of the fact that the municipalities register differently. In the past, it was possible for municipalities to exchange information on hospitalisation and discharge if the citizen received support under Chapter 16 of the Services Act, for example. if they got home help. Today, however, the municipalities no longer register that they receive support according to Chapter 16 if they also live in a settlement offer according to § 107 or § 108. And since it is only legal to exchange information if citizens receive support under Chapter 16, we can see that something is quite wrong. We will then have this problem addressed today, so that citizens in housing offers can also exchange their information and experience a coordinated public sector, as has been the case in the past. In addition, the reality has also caught up with legislation when it comes to what it means to receive treatment in the hospital. Today you have to be in hospital before information is exchanged between the municipality and health care. At the same time, however, it is also the case that you can be in outpatient care for up to 72 hours without being in hospital and if, for example, you are in hospital. in quotation marks have only been in outpatient treatment for up to 3 days, there is no exchange of information between hospital and municipality. This is inappropriate in such potentially long-term circumstances. The draft law will not distinguish in the future whether the hospital stay of citizens is part of emergency outpatient treatment or hospitalisation. The last thing we need to confirm with this bill is the proposal that older people, their relatives and their caregivers can get a better overview of both agreements in the health sector, and for example. when the citizen receives home help. It will appear in the healthcare system, the Schedule of Agreements, and then, if necessary, health professionals can, in connection with the current treatment of the citizen, see the citizen's agreements across sectors, among others. to avoid double bookings. It is also a better help for citizens. This bill can have a great impact on the individual, but not least, older people will also be able to experience a public sector that talks together across silos and organizational boundaries silos and divisions, which I really do not think the citizens care much about, but which means a lot to their experience of meeting with the public sector. With the adoption of the legislative proposal, we are taking a small but also important step towards fulfilling the co-responsibility of the public sector, which I started by stating, is experienced by the public at present and meaningfully, but at the same time is also operated efficiently and safely. That is why the Social Democratic Party can support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125105042	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line and welcome Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125105108	Thank you for the floor, President. As Mr Stén Knuth, rapporteur on the proposal, unfortunately cannot be present in the Chamber today, I am speaking on behalf of the Left. Briefly, the government's proposal makes it easier to exchange personal data across public authorities. The proposal relates specifically to two major amendments. One is that it will be easier to exchange information, with a so-called hospital advice, between the hospital and the municipality of certain citizens who have been linked to a housing offer or received support under certain parts of social legislation. In addition, it is about including more, especially older citizens, in the schedule of agreements in the new IT system developed by the Danish Health Data Protection Agency. This makes it possible for health professionals to get an overview of agreements across authorities more easily. The Left believes only that it is positive that it will be easier to coordinate and share information across public authorities. With the automatic exchange of personal data and increased digitisation, we release resources for health professionals to concentrate on their core tasks rather than duplication. This is both for the benefit of the citizens, for the staff and for the community fund. We note that concerns are expressed in the consultations on the protection of personal data. It is about the right to withdraw consent for the sharing of personal data, and also about how easy it is to withdraw consent, who can do so if not the citizen himself can and where it can be done, whether it is online, on the phone or other. However, we believe that the government has responded satisfactorily to those concerns in the final legislative proposal, and so there remains a legislative proposal which benefits citizens, community staff and welfare alike. We in the Left can only support this, and I can at least say that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125105249	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125105307	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is to support better cross-sectoral cooperation between the health sector and the municipalities, which should be of particular benefit to our elderly. It is proposed to improve the possibility of exchanging messages, a so-called hospital advice, between the hospital and the municipality, when a citizen receiving assistance and support under certain social legislation is admitted to or discharged from a hospital. It may well be very sensible to provide the citizen with the best treatment. It is therefore also important for the Danish People's Party that the citizen is of course made aware of this and agrees to it. With the bill, citizens staying in a temporary residence offer under Section 107 of the Services Act or in a long-term accommodation offer under Section 108 of the Services Act will also be included. The majority of citizens have been included in the scheme in the past, but in practice this is no longer due to changes in local authorities' registration practices, and I think the Minister may be able to answer why they are no longer • why these changes have been made. In addition, however, it is also proposed that hospital advice be sent forward, regardless of whether the citizen's hospital stay is part of emergency outpatient treatment or hospitalisation, as opposed to today, when it is only sent in connection with admissions. The proposal is justified by the fact that today a citizen can receive outpatient treatment in a hospital for up to 72 hours without being hospitalized. As something else, it is proposed that a number of services provided by the Services Act, specifically to the elderly, including home help, should be included in the health care system, i.e. in the schedule of contracts. This will allow the citizen himself or the next of kin of the citizen to have an overview of the citizens' agreements, not only in the health sector, but also when the citizen, for example. receive home help. The bill will also allow health professionals, if necessary in the context of the citizen's current treatment, to be able to see the citizen's agreements across sectors, including: to avoid double booking and to help the citizen better. I can see that, after the answers received, the government has given citizens the right to opt out of obtaining information, a so-called blocking clause, and that the citizen must be informed of the right to withdraw information and that it can do so on health.dk. But I would like the Minister to answer what happens if the citizen's wish is not met. What are the consequences if the citizen has refused to obtain information and yet it does? And then there is the whole problem in relation to non-digital older people. There we in the Danish People's Party would like to raise a flag for the importance of communication, including their rights and opportunities. In addition, it might also be interesting to hear the Minister about why it is not the starting point that, as a recipient of healthcare and home care, you start by not consenting, rather than having to opt out if you do not want it. After the fence posts have come in and we have been sensitive to the consultation parties, we are also prepared to agree to the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125105615	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Karina Adsbøl are we still blowing off?). No, there is no demand for it, but it is kind to do so. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125105635	Thank you for the floor. In the SF, we are also broadly in favour of the proposal, which we are considering today, and which has already been very well explained by my colleagues here from the platform. The coordination between the municipality and hospitals, when a citizen comes to the hospital either emergency or planned, is important. We support the proposal for a comprehensive overview to support better digital cooperation for the benefit of patients, relatives and health professionals. In fact, we believe that this is the whole prerequisite for the close and coherent health care which we are talking about all the time and which we still need to achieve on a number of points. It creates a better interaction in the treatment of citizens, who are both covered by the Services Act and the Health Act, when citizens and relatives can have a comprehensive overview of agreements, and when the municipality receives information about the citizen's hospitalisation and printing, and the hospital gets contact information at the municipality. However, we also need a service review, in relation to whether healthcare has crept into the Service Act, and we will return to that at a later stage. At the same time, it is positive that it is ensured that patients have the opportunity not to consent to the transmission of information. That is an important part of the proposal, I think. The citizen must always be involved in consenting to the sharing of information and it must be possible to withdraw consent at any time. At the same time, we must ensure that the citizen and/or the immediate relatives are aware of what is stated in the schedule of agreements, and thus of what the municipality and health care staff have access to. The SF will vote in favour of the bill, but at the same time we also hope that the parties of the Folketing will welcome the B50, which has just been tabled today. It is a motion for a resolution by the SF which seeks to ensure greater openness and transparency for citizens in relation to their records in municipal care for the elderly, so that the issue of digital transparency becomes not only a question of the relationship between the various authorities, but also, in fact, of the relationship between citizens and the system. I hope we can have an opportunity to discuss this later. But so far we support the draft law that has been put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125105900	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125105916	Thank you for the floor. Radical Left also supports the bill, which will mean a legislative change that will ensure more coordination between the municipality and hospital when citizens are staying on temporary and long-term housing offers. We ask questions as to why the settlement offer-like offer created under § 105 and the Free Care Act is not guaranteed and is written into the bill, as it also concerns citizens who are equally dependent on the coordination between the municipality and the hospital. We also believe that the focus of the bill on ensuring that information is shared will help and support older citizens with functional reductions when the information is integrated into the digital calendar schedule. With the schedule, the citizen or a family member with authority can get an overview of the citizen's agreements with the health care system. We believe that in the work of the committee we should discuss when the citizen is included in this offer and why it does not happen automatically. We agree that agreement on the treatment of abuse should not be included in the list of agreements for the benefit of the citizen's privacy. The question is which benefits are covered by the legislation. Initially, it must be health care because it is there that coordination is most important. We attach importance to the citizens' consent and to the possibility of blocking access to information. Finally, we are very aware that in relation to citizens who are digitally exposed, the necessary considerations are taken into account and that relatives are given the opportunity to gain insight into the schedule of contracts.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110103	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. It may be a mistake, but the button has been pressed. Should we consider it a mistake? Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen Yes. ) We do. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110128	Enhedslisten can also support this bill. As several rapporteurs have said, it facilitates some communication routes, it ensures that we close some gaps, and it also makes it easier for citizens to have an overview of the contacts they have in healthcare and in the municipality. So there is no doubt that this is a legislative proposal that we will also support. I think I will refrain from going through it once again, the other rapporteurs have done so, but just say that Enhedslisten supports the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110206	We thank you for that. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110222	Thank you. I can start by taking the drama out of my speech by revealing that we in the Conservative People's Party are also voting in favour of this bill. Like Mrs Pernille Skipper, I shall also refrain from going through the Slavic; there are other of my good colleagues who have done excellent starting with Birgitte Vind. Good points have been added later, in the first place this in relation to the non-digital elderly, to which the Danish People's Party's rapporteur Mrs Karina Adsbøl referred, as we are also concerned in the Conservative People's Party. But we support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110255	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks. And that means that we have come to the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110314	Like some of the previous rapporteurs, I would also like to say that I am not going to go through the whole legislative proposal either. I agree with the points made by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. New citizens also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110331	Thank you for that and it did not give rise to brief comments either. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so it is now the Minister who will have the opportunity to speak. Here you go, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elders.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110349	Thank you for that, President. I would like to acknowledge receipt of the bill in this Chamber and the good debate we have had here today. After all, this is a legislative proposal aimed at ensuring better coordination between municipalities and the health sector for the benefit of citizens. I understand that this is not a revolution, but it is a small step towards promoting cross-relations and thus making a difference, not least for the elderly, who today may find it difficult to have an overview of agreements and help from the municipality and health sector. With the bill, we create clarity and overview for the individual elderly and the relatives of the elderly, so selected agreements in the municipality about e.g. home help is presented in a comprehensive overview together with the agreements in the health sector. It makes a difference if you are hospitalized and can be really bad, or if it is difficult to keep track of when it is now that you have appointments in the hospital or get your home help. It can also be a very good tool for relatives who gain access to it. At the same time, we also provide a valuable tool for the health care professionals, which will be able to plan and, among other things, plan. avoid double booking. It is a small thing, but it means something in the big picture for health workers that the information is automatically shared, because then coordination will not be an extra task where you have to spend time calling around to get the necessary information and make things stick together. This reduces the pressure due to no-shows and double bookings that need to be changed. I think that is a very good thing we are doing; and we are, of course, doing so with respect for and safeguarding the protection of the individual's personal data. Finally, I would like to point out that I expect to table an amendment so that the date of entry into force of the part of the draft law relating to the schedule of agreements will be postponed from 1 January to 1 March next year. This is because the Ministry of Health has announced that the IT system will not be ready until 1 January, so there is such a low-practical reason for it. I am, of course, available for questions in committee and I can say in response to what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party asked about here in relation to the discussion about the hospital that the municipalities are registering in a different way now than in the past. Previously, both the fact that you were a citizen of § 107 and § 108 offers and what you received from benefits under § 16 of the Service Act were registered. This has been abandoned in the municipality. Now you only register the stay on § 107 and § 108 even if the citizen may have e.g. home help. So it is the municipalities that have changed their registration practices that make us need to change this, but let us just get it further deepened or developed and clarified in committee. To the second question put by the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party: what happens then, if anyone is looking, I can say that if you have applied your blocking clause, that information is not available. It is simply technically up that if the blocking clause is applied, the information is not available. Should there be someone who somehow bypasses the system and yet looks, it is punishable on an equal footing with the rules that apply in that area. And, finally, let us get it further in committee. So with that I would like to thank you for your consideration; I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110702	There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110717	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the suggestion. I think this is an important proposal. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I would have liked it to have been a little more comprehensive, and I can hear that, when it is postponed for a few months, perhaps there could also be room to look at some of the other considerations, for example. the possibility, as a citizen of the municipality, of accessing what it is then for some records that the municipal health care professional is doing about the further treatment, which today often takes place in the municipalities under the auspices of the health service. When I'm in hospital, I can go into the medical records and see what different health care professionals have noticed about my stay at the hospital or at the general practitioner, but when I get back to the municipality, it's access to see how the municipality follows up that doesn't. What does the Minister think of the possibility of extending this proposal to include the possibility of having access to this information when returning to the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110824	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110825	It can be said that there are a number of different considerations that need to be taken into account when we talk about the sharing of individual citizens' data and the right of citizens to also protect their personal data. After all, this bill is quite specifically about correcting an inappropriate situation that arose following the change in local authorities' registration practices. The question I am hearing from the rapporteur is really a little wider, and it is a discussion I would like to take. I also think I have seen from the corner of the eye that a motion for a resolution has been tabled by the rapporteur's party, which concerns precisely this point with insight into the information. I think that this is a relevant and interesting discussion, and I myself have come across the challenges it brings to the fact that there are systems where you do not have access to the information across the board. Both for the employees, but as I am hearing the rapporteur from the point of view of the citizen, I certainly think this is a relevant discussion, just not under the auspices of this specific legislative proposal. But I would very much like to take those discussions with the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110920	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110922	I'm also comfortable taking things in stages. That's how we work in here all the time. But then I come to the expensive proposal. For one of the challenges is also, when we look at the digital part of health care, that it is a very bureaucratic system because you often have to convert information from, for example. Common Medicine Card for Cura, which the municipalities use, and vice versa to something else in the regions, which also have separate systems. What considerations is the government making about having a common system so that all these data conversions are avoided and, in fact, the number of risks can be minimized?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125110959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111000	I think I should not go too deep into the wider discussion about medical records and common medical cards, etc., because it is even, it has to be said, at the edge of, or rather completely outside, my resort. However, the problem that you also meet in local government, namely that employees use different systems, some use Common Medicine Cards, some use the part of the documentation system that is about the Health Act, and others use only the Service Act section, which gives absolutely certain disadvantages and some bureaucracy out there, so I am very concerned that we see what we can do about it. Whether it is in the process of getting systems that can be better integrated and better talked or what is the solution, I think it is going too far to have a discussion here under this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111045	Then it's Mrs. Karina Due in relation to Christina Thorholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111047	I question the fact that we are talking about the temporary and long-term housing offers, but that we are not talking about the housing offers like the free-care homes, where I think it is exactly the same target group that needs those offers. So what's the difference now that you make this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111109	Thank you. I will also give a written answer to the question. But I am almost sure that the answer is that it is because the municipalities here are actually still registering benefits according to Chapter 16, so there is no change in registration practice here. I'm just looking down at my officials. That's right! I would also like to reply to that in writing. However, it is simply because the registration practices of the municipalities have not moved, so it is still possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111132	One more question? No... and silent communication also works in the Assembly Hall. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111150	The debate is open. Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111204	Thank you, sir. President. For Social Democracy, this is heartblood, for making a special effort for vulnerable children and young people is really something that matters. It is also for people with disabilities and those in our society who have particular challenges. In short, it is often those people who do not have a strong enough voice to speak for themselves so that they can shout up to a possible problem, and these are the people we are focusing on today. We have seen several headlines in relation to orphanage barons, and we have seen how one has had institutions where quality has not been good enough. And can we live with it when we have a welfare state in Denmark to take care of the weakest in society, and a society that should actively give those who are most challenged an honest chance to recover and to become the best version of themselves and provide the opportunity to support themselves and contribute to society? Unfortunately, too many times we see that the tax dollars can be used for something other than that, and that is simply not right. That is why I am really glad that we are here today and are going to deal first with L 64. That bill is a special view, because we will strengthen parts of the control of social services to ensure that citizens receive the services that are also intended. This is where control workers work to ensure that society's crowns are spent as best they can. We simply want to ensure the quality of social services in Denmark. This must be done by strengthening social policy, supporting more uniform, coordinated and effective supervision. It will also make it easier to monitor the economy of both public and private offers and ensure greater transparency when it comes to what the public crowns are spent on. Similarly, it will also be important to strengthen educational efforts for places of residence, since the funds will go more to the rightful conditions. I am very pleased to be able to present this bill, which also enjoys great praise and support in several consultation responses. This shows that changes that have been demanded can also provide a positive and beneficial benefit to society's citizens. When we strengthen the Social Protection Agency, it is quite obvious that this provides a better quality for end-users, that is to say the children and young people who are out on the other end. It is therefore important for us to strengthen and ensure that there is both financial scope for supervision, but also that we strengthen the teaching effort. So this is a really good bill, and we support it, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111502	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111506	Thank you. After all, we were in these negotiations for a long time, and we had a wish that the same thing that would apply to public contracts would, of course, apply to private offers. Therefore, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that this bill makes it at least more expensive and bureaucratic to make private offers. Can the rapporteur also confirm that changes have taken place in relation to the answers to the hearings that social services now have to approve repairs and maintenance before they are implemented, in the case of non-public services? In other words, is there not going to be a huge discrimination between public and private offers?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111550	I am very pleased with the question, also because some of what we have just been able to see, which is why the bill is coming, is about ensuring that the funds also go to the children and young people who need them. That is why it has also been obvious and clear that there has been a need to ensure that the money that is then allocated goes to the children and young people too. With regard to the part dealing with financial supervision itself, it is true that the draft law provides an opportunity for that supervision, and I think that is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111624	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111625	It is just to understand: the Socialist rapporteur then confirms that there is discrimination in this area, in relation to whether you are a public offer or a private offer. The second point in relation to this is: why is it that, for private offers, the social inspectorate has to approve the implementation of repairs or maintenance?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111649	With this bill, it is clear that we are curbing the many cases we have looked at in private institutions, and one of the things we have seen is that funds have been transferred from one account to another and have been able to draw back profits. I think this is actually a good proposal, but it is also fair that the Danish People's Party disagrees with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111713	Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111717	It is no secret that we in the Enhedslisten had hoped that we could come up with a bill that could completely stop money from the public economy devoted to welfare from being able in this case exposed children and young people with disabilities could be pulled out as a surplus by private companies so that the money was not spent to the citizens concerned. I have a concern that we will not achieve the aim of the legislative proposal put forward and that it will be difficult to stem the spread of large groups in the specialized social field as well. Will the Social Democratic Party be prepared to pursue this matter if it turns out that the bill is not enough to contain large private groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111804	In other words, I believe that the rapporteur is so sensitive. And it has been obvious that we would have liked to have gone further. We can see that in the other Nordic countries, just as the rapporteur says, large groups have come in, so we can question whether we will also have the best quality. This is a democratic compromise and it is as far as we could get. I think this is a very good step, but I would certainly like to take a look at it again if we see similar situations as those described by the rapporteur here. Because this is about our common public welfare, and it's about children having the best possible starting point, even if you're a housed child.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111847	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound. No, then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111855	Thank you. It is always a pleasure and tempting to hear Enhedslisten talk about business economics. However, I just want to hear something from the rapporteur, because now the rapporteur says this: it is a very good agreement and it is a very good legislative proposal. There's clearly a difference between municipal and private offers in this. And I can also hear from the rapporteur that the rapporteur is very concerned about this, and I think we are all aware that the public crowns are being used as best we can. I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether he could elaborate on the difference between profit and profit.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125111948	I think New Citizen's question here itself starts a little cocky, if you're going to say so in Jutland, but maybe you should just say polemical. The questioner outlines a number of assumptions which in reality are based on a completely different place. In other words, the question could also be asked the other way: will you help create better offers, because then you have to vote in favour of this bill? This is a good legislative proposal which gives the Social Protection Agency a number of powers that we have missed. And one might also be allowed to think about whether one should ask the rapporteur: but will New Citizens support orphanage barons? In fact, I can be in doubt about that with the question being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112039	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112040	I was, of course, the one who put a question to the rapporteur, and we are all concerned here with ensuring good supervision. And so are the players out there. But I simply have to ask the rapporteur again, because it seems that the rapporteur simply cannot answer: why have accountants not been called for at the level of unitary public procurement? Why is it not important that the money is spent properly there, and what is the difference between profit and profit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112110	In fact, I think that this is an important and central legislative proposal, and I think that the questioner here is throwing gravel into the machinery in relation to what it is really about, namely to create proper offers for children. And it is quite right that we disagree on how the economy should be supervised here. And you will see that when this bill is due to be put to the vote and we have to press the button.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112135	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and we go further. Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112146	Thank you for the floor, President. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is an example of how we managed to avert a disaster, a disaster that could have led to human consequences in a tragic way. In the Left we were frightened when the Minister took the lead in an ideological crusade, a crusade whose consequences were completely incalculable. Under the heading ban on profit on welfare, it was blown to fight against anything that is not public simply because it is not public. In autumn 2020 negotiations were then convened. However, the left was quickly thrown out of the negotiating room, and that was perhaps not so surprising. Because in the Left we made it clear from the outset that, contrary to the government, it is not important for us who provides the social benefits. For us, it is most important that social services are provided, which the citizens are happy about and which provide value for money. In the Left we even believe that people themselves and should be free to choose the offer that they and their relatives find best for them. It is not compatible with the government's ideology, where the system comes before the citizens, where it is more important for the public to carry out all the welfare tasks than for the citizens to be happy and satisfied with the offer they now have. Fortunately, there were some sensible parties left in the negotiating room, and that is why I should like to express my thanks here today to the sensible parties from the left who have prevented this disaster and who have brought the Minister and the government to their senses. Honorable to those who should be honored. The agreement eventually ended in a place where we in the Left could even see ourselves in it, and that is why we also agreed in April of this year. Now I was told that the minister and the government had been brought to their senses, and that is perhaps an insult anyway. Because when the agreement was to be put into effect, it was still a piece away from what we had agreed. Fortunately, many stakeholders were aware of this and have gone very carefully to the consultation process. That is why I would also like to thank the many stakeholders who helped to ensure that, in the end, there was a correlation between that agreement and that draft law. And now we are standing here with this bill, a bill that we in the Left can immediately see us in. Because in the Left we think it is sensible to strengthen social supervision, and in the Left we think it is sensible to strengthen economic supervision of social services. We believe that it will provide much more transparency in the whole area, we believe that it will shield the many fantastic private social offers from undocumented speculation, and we believe that it will shield them from unfounded accusations of motives that they do not have. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Minister and the government of one very important thing: who are the people who run the private social services? These are fire souls who are passionate about making a positive difference to other people. We should pay tribute to the people, the people who run these social services, we should thank them every day, because they are providing irreplaceable efforts for the most vulnerable citizens in our society. We don't want them to be suspicious. But this is probably just where the ideological difference between the government and the red parties and the left is then apparent. As I have said, we support this bill immediately, but we will also follow the bill closely and clarify the final details of the committee work, including who controls the key figures of the municipalities. There must be real transparency and equality between municipal and private services, even if there will always be some small things where it is of course impossible to equate it to one hundred per cent. However, for the Left, it is just essential to make it clear that there must be transparency and that there must be equality between the two different types of offer. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112552	There is a brief comment. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112555	Thank you. I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left, whether the rapporteur of the Left does not see that there is actually still discrimination in this draft law. In other words, whether you are public or private, you have to ensure good quality, but what is still in this bill is probably that a difference is made between whether you are private or public, in relation to whether you can renovate, also in relation to your salary income. So is the Left satisfied with this bill as it stands now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112634	As I said in the speech, we still have some things to answer. We have also asked some questions to which we need answers. I also think that we will be reviewing it in committee. We will not hit a hundred per cent equality in these areas, because there is not. I have also listened to the fact that organisations and stakeholders themselves have been reassured after the draft law was amended. It has to be said that it was and some questions were answered that have reassured the organisations and stakeholders and have also, in part, reassured me. But still gone, as I said in my speech: we have some questions to which we need answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112704	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112706	But then there is also the whole authorisation clause for the Minister, which may give the Minister authority to do other things in this bill. Is the Left entirely comfortable with the authority that is also contained in this bill? It will be so exciting to see whether the Left gets any satisfactory answers in committee. However, I am a little surprised that the Left is in this agreement, because we saw in the hearing answers that there is real concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112743	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112744	To answer the first part of the question from DF, it was precisely why I very, very strongly emphasised in my speech that the Left is going to follow this bill closely. We were frankly very, very concerned when we saw the first draft law, because it was not near that agreement or was too far from the agreement we had made. And as I also said in my first reply to the rapporteur from the DF, there were indeed many critical consultation responses, and a really good piece of work was put into it by these organisations and stakeholders in order to get the agreement to what it was originally intended, which was also what made it possible for us to accede to the agreement at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112818	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112820	In his speech, the rapporteur said that we should warmly thank all the private players in this area. According to an article in Altinget, three of the very large players operating private welfare services had a total turnover of 1.2 billion from regions and municipalities six months ago. kr. All three are part of an international welfare group, and they have their assets placed in tax havens on the two canal islands of the English Channel. I just want to hear from the rapporteur: does the thanks we have to give to the private operators, including the companies in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112909	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112911	Honestly: I just have to say that when Enhedslisten puts himself on the side where Enhedslisten has laid down in this case, you end up and I don't think it's been done consciously by hitting some people, on some fire-souls who have put themselves in line to make the best offer for those citizens. I've visited several places. I have visited a place on Funen where I met a woman who had started her own 24-hour offer for children and young people. She didn't make any money from that. It was pure interest, and these are the people you hope to accidentally hit in the worst way when you thunder against that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112955	Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125112956	That was not really an answer to my question. We think there are a great many private actors who are doing a great job in this area. There is a decades, almost a century-long tradition of that. What I was asking was whether we also owe a debt of thanks to those who, first and foremost, run this area as a private company in order to make money and, in addition, drive it in such a speculative way that they place their money in tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113025	It is incomprehensible to me when Enhedslisten admits that there are incredibly many talented, good players out there who are doing a very good job, that you will still be using your gunpowder in this Chamber today on the few stumbled vessels that are. That is why we want to be part of the agreement. That is why we want to reach a good agreement. It is precisely because we must try to hit the very, very few stingy vessels that are. But when you use your speaking time in this Chamber to beat it, you accidentally hit the many talented players we have on the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113102	Thank you. The next one I would like to give the floor is Mrs Trine Torp of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113103	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Left for being in the deal. In fact, I think it is something very good that we are doing here, and I am glad that the Left is also in it. I do not really want to dwell so much on some individual organisations, but more on that trend, and it is here that it is foreign players who buy it up. It is not necessarily fire souls who are particularly interested in Danish welfare and making good social offers in Denmark. They have primarily one interest, and that is to make money. When we look to our Nordic neighbours, we can see that there has actually been a huge acquisition of social institutions in those countries from international groups, and I just want to know if that is something that concerns the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113153	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113154	Of course it is. I'm not in favour of driving in that design either. I'm not in favour of this ending up in tax havens either. I do not think I have in any way proposed that during my speech. I just get worried if you end up making an agreement that will hit a lot of other people who are doing a really good job, and almost the hardest, I would say, will hit some children who are in an offer that they are really, really happy and for everything in the world will not leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113224	Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113226	But I share that view with the Left and also thank you for your answer. I am actually also very pleased that the rapporteur from the Left recognises that this is a potential problem, and so I would also like to hear whether we can shake hands with each other in this Chamber, that if it is a trend we can see getting bigger because it is not about fire-souls, it is about something quite different if the Left is willing to look at it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113258	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113300	After all, there is a reason why we have ended up in the agreement and there is a reason why we are looking favourably at the draft law today. Now all we have to do is answer the last questions and hopefully we can land this with a really, really good bill that we can finalise and get up and running. We really want to look at things. It is just a stop-block for the Left if it compromises with the many talented people we have in the area that does a hugely great job every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113324	Thank you to Mrs Marlene Ambo-RasmussenRasmussen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur to whom we should welcome is the rapporteur of the DF. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113351	Thanks for that, and I just need to get the platform down. That's the way it is when you're so low. In the Danish People's Party we agree with some of the intentions of the bill. We also want strong, up-qualified and competent social oversight, which can exercise supervision, which is also an instructive supervision and supervision that works on the basis of proper professionalism, including dare and can make reasonable demands and clarify frameworks and structures. In the Danish People's Party we also want to ensure that the staff and management of the institutions are properly qualified. There is a lack of training here. Social educators and educators have also said so, and we have also seen that more practice is lacking in relation to the social worker's profession. The answers received have not been entirely positive, among other things. the processing schools have described that this bill strongly points to the nationalisation of private companies and that the bill does not implement the April 2021 agreement. At the same time, they write that the draft law does not ensure greater openness, greater uniformity or greater coherence across public and private services, as many of the requirements introduced are only applicable to private offers. At the same time, they also propose in the consultation answers that quality should be defined in the individual areas of section 4 of the draft law, so as to indicate which objective parameters for measuring quality can and will be used and published in order to achieve improvement and transparency. In the Danish People's Party, whether the offer is private or public, we want to be able to make similar demands. That's fair and fair. We fully agree that offers must deliver a qualified effort, and that must be done regardless of whether you are private or public. The consultation answers also say that it has been proposed here postponed so that it will not apply from 1 January 2022. Then, in the draft law, there is also an authorisation clause for the Minister, which is very broadly worded so that, as a member of parliament, there is a slight concern. I can also see from the hearings that there are more there, even when the Minister is given the authority to lay down binding guidelines in a decree. Paragraph 16 also states that private owners must request approval if they wish to undertake major renovation or maintenance work in order to improve the physical framework of the offer. Why, as a private company, should you apply for approval when renovating? I guess that's the same thing if you're a local. The Association of Boformer for the Homeless in Denmark also notes that the bill has been very far-reaching and contributes to an unfair discrimination of control in the self-serving offers versus the public. And then I think that this bill also reflects what the government was really doing, namely a strong reluctance to private operators, and even if it did not end up with a real ban on profit, it certainly makes it bureaucraticly heavy for many. I just have to say that for the Danish People's Party, this is not about public or private. It is about ensuring quality. It is about ensuring that vulnerable and vulnerable citizens receive the help and support they need. I can then understand that after the very, very critical consultation responses, a number of amendments have been made to the draft law. There will then be a number of questions I will ask in committee, as well as to get a better overview of exactly what has changed and what has not changed in relation to this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113750	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl from DF. There are no brief comments. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125113809	Thank you for the floor. The SF is part of the political agreement behind this bill and therefore supports it. We are pleased that we now have the opportunity to strengthen the framework for the work of the Social Inspectorate and to support a more uniform, coordinated and effective social oversight. There is a need to ensure both the quality and transparency of the economy in social services. The draft law obliges the Social Protection Agency to cooperate with other authorities and supervision, and hopefully it will help to ensure that we now have a strengthened cross-cutting use of specialist knowledge and more uniform methods of supervision, and that is positive. In the SF, we have great respect for the diversity of offers in the social field. We have to protect that. It creates positive developments and helps to ensure that we have relevant offers to all citizens. At the same time, it is important that we ensure that the money that goes to pay for the seats on those offers actually goes to something that benefits the citizens who live there. Unfortunately, we have seen several times that a great deal of profit is being made; money which could have gone either to improve quality or to lower the rate. This must not happen, and we would have liked to see a ceiling on how much profit can be drawn from these companies, but there has been no political majority in favour of this. I therefore also share the concern expressed in some of the consultations about the acquisition and expansion of foreign groups in the social field, which is mentioned. Fortunately, we can deal with some of these issues a bit along the way with this proposal. By now strengthening financial supervision, among other things. strengthen the requirements for auditors and give particular attention to high leadership salaries, we provide the Social Protection Agency with better opportunities to ensure that the public funds allocated to helping citizens in vulnerable positions also go to those citizens. When it becomes more transparent and there is more information about the economy on the offer portal, the municipalities will also be able to know much more about what they are actually choosing for their citizens. We are also pleased that the focus has been on the fact that there may be a link between consumption of non-permanent staff and quality. However, we might have thought that the supervision of professionalism and temporary employment was a little clearer in the draft law as an essential part of the quality assessment and risk-based supervision, so that we do not compromise on the professionalism of social services. The SF is therefore positive about the proposal, which contains many good and important changes, and we look forward to further discussions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114059	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114104	Thank you so much. Now the rapporteur is saying that it has to be registered on this portal. But will it also be possible to record decent, i.e. artificially low prices for public contracts? Will real prices also be recorded when, on public tenders, accountants have not signed accounts at unit level?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114130	In other words, there are many of the same claims on the offer portal, whether private, self-owned or public, in relation to, among other things. quality. I have followed up the questions that have been raised in the past, and I think it is a little bit like comparing pears and bananas. Because it is the case with the municipal offers that there is actually a municipal council which is watching what the money is being spent on. It is their job, of course, on behalf of taxpayers, to keep an eye on the fact that there are not too high managerial salaries in an institution and that the money allocated to running a municipal institution actually goes to the point. So I am quite comforted that we there have a control over the price that is on the offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114218	Is there a brief comment? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114220	Yes, there is, and I am not at all! We have seen examples of this. And I just don't quite understand this socialist approach that it can't be private and good, but it can be expensive and public. And that's such a really weird premise. Why is it so premature that it should be divided in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114245	Well, it is quite a strawman who is being delivered by the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. I have never said that it must be municipal and expensive and bad, or whatever is being said, and that it must not be private. It is simply a strawman, so I have no need to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114305	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. So we are just saying thank you for what we are going to say and the next one we are going to welcome is the rapporteur of the Radicals, and that is Mrs Christina Thorholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114319	Thank you for the floor. The Radical Left agrees that the new draft law strengthens the supervision of the quality of social services by the Social Inspectorate and, in particular, strengthens financial supervision. Supervision has been given more opportunities to assess whether public funds are being used as intended and create quality for the people receiving the aid, and that is something we are very concerned about. The purpose of the amendment was to create greater transparency and lower estimates in relation to the economy and when an offer is particularly expensive and in relation to the relationship between price and quality. Radicals, like so many of the consultation parties, agree that we could have gone further in clarifying the link between price and quality, so that there was less discretion and less individual interpretation. We know that there is a difference between the various social inspections, so that is why it is quite important that there is further clarification. We recognise that there have been several key figures to illustrate the costs and profits of the offer. We have asked whether an hourly price could be included in the agreement as a factual basis of assessment, as we believe it would be an element that could clarify the link between price and quality rather than that it is based on estimates. It is the experience that there is an estimate and that there is a need to frame it here with a clarification in the guidance from the Social Service. We note that the marking of disproportionate offers, after consultation, will apply both to private and public offers, and this is important for us because it is about price in terms of quality. The Radical Left would have liked to see the same requirements for public-run offers as for private ones, for example. in relation to financial reporting. The introduction of financial reporting requirements means that there will be more transparency in relation to whether and how public offerings use the money set aside in the budget to create quality with the efforts of the most vulnerable people. But that is not in the April agreement. We will follow up the Minister's response on equality between requirements for private and public suppliers, in terms of how they can be included in a relevant context. In addition to that, we attach importance to greater uniformity with, among other things. special functions and strengthening the competences of the Social Protection Agency in relation to a uniform practice. When setting up the special functions, the Radical Left agrees with the comments of the parties to the consultation that the regulatory provisions are broadly worded and that the Minister can decide on the content of powers other than those laid down in section 2 and we will be critical of whether the parties to the agreement should not be involved and determine how the responsibilities and tasks of supervision are shared. In addition, we are aware that it is being maintained that enhanced supervision lasts three months. This means that enhanced supervision is often extended because offers cannot make the organisational change within the three months. And we think it would be less bureaucratic if we allowed the Social Protection Agency to say that stricter supervision, for example. could last up to 6 months. And the match could be: Are we acting so fast enough? But the Social Protection Agency still has the opportunity to make an immediate demand, so the companies act immediately. We believe that this is an important element in strengthening the processes and creating less bureaucracy. We will be monitoring whether the strengthening of the Social Protection Agency works as it is most appropriate in terms of creating the highest possible quality for our weakest fellow citizens. For us, it is not crucial whether it is private or public-run offers, because it is a question of quality, and we see that there are private offers that also have an innovation power that we attach importance to. It has been questioned that the work on the notice is being consulted while the draft law is being tabled. And if there is a need to extend the treatment time, we are happy to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114813	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. The first one to which I would like to give the floor is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114821	Now I am aware that the rapporteur has not been in the negotiating room, so I would just like to ask a little more graciously: is it really the view of the Radicals that it is reasonable for large foreign groups to buy social offers and which clearly have the main intention of withdrawing money from the system rather than spending them to the greatest extent possible on citizens? It is clear that there is a difference between our parties in the assessment of many things, but it has puzzled me during the negotiations that there has not been any concern in the Radicals about this very extensive intrusion of large welfare groups, now also in the Danish social sphere. Are you radicals not worried about that at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125114917	After all, it is the task of the Social Inspectorate to assess whether the larger companies still deliver a quality equivalent to the price. They must do so in relation to the professional effort, i.e. the recruitment of employees with a relevant professional background, skills development, and that price and quality are linked. This is vitally important to us. We have seen examples of large companies buying small businesses and increasing quality, but there are also examples of a deterioration in quality, and that is where the Social Protection Agency has a task, and that is where the improved opportunities for the Social Protection Agency should work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115005	Jakob Silver mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115006	But price and quality are not, to some extent, linked to one another; I agree with that, and we had a discussion during the negotiations on whether we could contain it, so that we at least set a ceiling on profits. We are voting in favour of this proposal and have helped to agree on the basis of it, but why will the Radicals not even be able to contain the surplus that could be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115035	Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115036	We have emphasized that it will be transparent, how large the profits are, so that those who buy can decide whether that is the price at which they want to buy and that it must be stated if the Social Protection Agency considers that there is a large surplus compared to the turnover there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115056	Thank you for that and I would like to give the floor to Mrs Karina Adsbøl from DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115059	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur of the Radicals is satisfied with what is now and the agreement reached or whether the radical rapporteur also believes that there is discrimination here in relation to whether there is a private or public offer. In addition, I would like to hear from the rapporteur of the Radicals whether the rapporteur of the Radicals cannot confirm the fact that the rapporteur has spoken a great deal about animals. So if that's what you think an offer is too expensive, can't you just stop using it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115149	We're happy with the deal. An agreement was reached this spring, which will then be implemented. We are in favour of this, and then we see in the legislative proposal some issues that we would like to continue working on in the legislative process. Again: We are a wide range of parties that need to be embraced in this and where we have some weights that we find important. Expensive? Yes, I am concerned that price and quality are linked to the fact that the number of professional staff has been employed, both in private and public companies. We see that both private and public companies may find it difficult to recruit, and we would like them to also recruit with a focus that could be more desirable in relation to us, which is that we have relevant vocational training, because we believe that it is essential for the quality that is provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115251	Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115252	I look forward to seeing the weights that the rapporteur is talking about. But what I really want to ask again is in relation to this price thing. There is a lot of talk about expensive prices and municipalities. We all know that there have been some failures in this area. This has been the case in both public and private offers, but is it not the case that if you think that the price is very high, then you will not be able to use it? In other words, it is the local authorities and the regions who will decide what offers they would like to make. That's one thing. And now I see my time is up, so I'm not gonna make it to the other one.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115327	Exactly! Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115328	We have some people with very special needs and who need special services, and in this way there are some offers that will be very expensive. When it's expensive, it's a lot about what quality you get. Radicals have no problem with the fact that there is a high price, as long as the quality is in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115348	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115400	Thank you. Unfortunately, the draft law we are discussing here is very far from the hopes that Enhedslisten had when we started negotiating more than a year ago on the regulation of forms of organisation in the social field and the strengthening of the social inspectorate. The reason for the negotiations was, and is, the growing problem of private companies taking over welfare tasks in the social field, with the clear aim of transforming part of the public funds devoted to the care and assistance of vulnerable citizens, children and young people and people with disabilities, into private profits. This is a development which has been going on for a very long time in both Sweden and Norway, and it is a development which is pressing heavily in this country. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, I would like to stress that I am not talking about the presence of private actors in the social field in general. We have a very long tradition of having self-serving institutions, social associations and socio-economic companies operating in the social field. This is probably what makes the vast majority of them good and competent for the benefit of citizens, as is the case with free schools, and as is the case with the self-serving day care institutions in the field of children. Of course we have no objections to this in the Enhedslisten. On the other hand, we are opposed to the privatisation of social services, which means that the funds that taxpayers pay for caring and helping some of our most disadvantaged citizens may end up as surpluses in private companies, and we think, not least, as I mentioned in my question to one of my fellow rapporteurs, that it is problematic when it comes to large international private groups, which even place their money in tax havens. In short, we simply cannot understand why, in relation to some of the parties, we have not been surprised that, through the very lengthy negotiations we had on the proposal here, we have not been able to create a majority in the Folketing so that we could intervene in the way of managing public funds, but that is clearly the case. Fortunately, after all, we managed to reach an agreement that gives the Social Protection Agency an obligation to relate to the economy of the offers. This must be highlighted in the monitoring report if there is no correlation between price and quality; wage costs must be assessed in relation to the management of offers; major maintenance work must be approved in order to assess whether they actually benefit citizens in the individual accommodation offers; and it must be ensured that trade between different parts of the group is conducted on market conditions so that no money is drawn from the offers by way of settlement at too high prices. These are all initiatives which we have helped to agree on and which, by their very nature, we think are sensible. This will lead to greater transparency with the economy of the offers, and we hope in the Enhedslisten that the transparency that is created will lead to the use, in relation to many municipalities, of a large proportion of the funds paid for a given offer for purposes other than those which benefit citizens. It is a great pity that a majority in the Folketing would not support the excellent proposals of the government, the Minister, to put an end to the possibility of making private profits on our most vulnerable citizens. I hope that, with the proposal here, we can, after all, ensure that more of the public funds allocated will also benefit the citizens. The unitary list may support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115808	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115812	Thank you. Now that the rapporteur seems to want to ban surpluses, I should just like to know whether the rapporteur will also ban deficits.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115824	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115826	When money is set aside in a municipal council for children who find it so difficult that they have to be placed; when money is set aside for people who are de veloped and need accommodation, we would have done away with the possibility that part of the money that has been allocated to children who need to be placed and to those who are de veloped, who need special support and help, is spent for purposes other than those for which they are allocated.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115908	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115909	I think the rapporteur is talking about what is called profit. I do not think the rapporteur is talking about surpluses. Profits are, after all, a positive balance on the financial statements. So I would really like to see the rapporteur elaborate a little, and I would also like the rapporteur to clarify what the benefits really are, because it does not seem quite as if the rapporteur understands what the benefits actually are.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115942	Here you go, sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125115943	I already noticed the other day in the Chamber that the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party was trying to juggle the concepts in order to confuse what we are actually talking about. What we are opposed to is that when you allocate money to citizens who are particularly vulnerable, they are not spent on citizens. It is a problem if you pull out the surplus and use it for everything else in the accounts. It is also a problem if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. gives the manager triple pay and in this way indirectly withdraws money.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125120019	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no more brief comments. Then we are to welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. This is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125120032	Thank you. This bill is about strengthening social oversight and strengthening financial supervision. The first part of the bill is to strengthen the framework for the work of the Social Inspectorate and to support more uniform and effective supervision to help ensure the quality of social services. The second part of the bill is to strengthen financial supervision, thereby creating greater transparency in the economy of offers. So far, so good. Both have been needed to strengthen. However, in the Conservative People's Party, we have read the hearings that I have here, which are very critical. We share the concern raised in the hearings, and one might actually get the idea that since the Minister could not get a ban on profit and the closure of private offers through, the Minister overimplements instead of the agreement here. I am not going to stand here on the floor and look at the critical consultation responses of the 40 pages, but we will ask questions from the Conservatives during the committee reading, as we need to see whether it is the case that the Minister is in the process of over-implementing the agreement. I am therefore not going to decide at this stage whether we are going to vote green on the legislative proposal, as we need to know whether this draft law over-implements the agreement of earlier this year, and whether, as a result, private initiatives in the social field will be virtually impossible. One thing is certain: we need the private initiative and the fiery souls that come with it, including in the social field. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125120248	Thank you to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Then it is the New Citizens' rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125120309	I think most of us remember the case of the Havregården and the years-long failure of the exposed children that took place at boarding school. I myself was shocked by the matter, and I was involved in a consultation on it, because we were able to see that there had been many failures, both at the school and also in the ministry which was also responsible for supervision. I already called for good and effective supervision of both public and private housing provision at that time. The fact that the need is there is, of course, quite clear. It also shows the many cases from TV 2's documentary But I must be completely honest and say that when I read the agreement on a new supervision that the Minister of Social Affairs has agreed with the left and wanted the mandates of the new citizens, I knew immediately that it would be without us. The agreement embodies the left's sickly mistrust of everything that is private. And the Minister himself admits that the government's hottest dream with the agreement was to prevent private people from running social housing offers with profit, and regretted that it had not succeeded. But the agreement is still strongly influenced by socialist ideology. Moreover, this discussion is continuing in the Ministry of Children and Education. In other words, the government wants to see whether private offers cannot be shut down once again. I hope that there is a majority to say no there too. The controls are designed to cut private offers and make their economy impossible. The new control regime gives the impression that it should be the private players who are the problem just because they are private. But the fact is that private offers are usually better than public offers. Research shows time and time again that both parents and employees' satisfaction is higher in private care provision, and according to Danish Industry, private self-owned and municipal social services score approximately equally high in quality reports. Dansk Industri has also asked the country's municipal directors why they make use of private offers, and here an overwhelming majority responds that private people provide more specialised offers. In other words, the private sector is also competing with the public sector in terms of professionalism. So the left's hatred of the private cannot come from a consideration of the most vulnerable or for the children. The shoe's gonna print somewhere else. If you give the Danes a free choice, they prefer the private to the dubious welfare of the municipalities. The private alternatives therefore exhibit the dusty old socialism of the former folk socialist and now Social Affairs Minister, Astrid Krag. In New Citizens, we are familiar with our bourgeoisie. We do not allow ourselves to be pushed into an agreement that is purely socialism. We are fighting for more free elections, which are part of a civil welfare policy. Freedom and competition create the best offers, and free competition is the most transparent and effective control mechanism. We are, of course, voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125120702	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. And then I do not see any rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, nor anyone from the Free Greens, so I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Christian Democrats. Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde. It's five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125120730	Thank you. I have just come into the Chamber a little late, but there is no doubt that the ideologies unfold in full when one hears such a discussion and when we discuss things like this. And it is always politically and politically very interesting to discuss ideologies, and you can feel where people come from, what they are rounded up by, and what conviction they are of. But the problem is, when we are going to act out in reality, that ideology may well become a little bit junk, as Poul Schlüter said at the time. And he wasn't quite stupid at running the country. We are not part of the agreement here, but in my view it is absolutely humanitarianly imperative that we strengthen the supervision of these offers here. And that is why we are most committed to voting in favour. Absolutely. Because, as Mrs Mette Thiesen rightly says, it is necessary. But we will also reserve the right to look at the answers to the hearings and see whether we are not actually going to do what we believe to be counterproductive on an equal footing with other bourgeois parties: in fact, to weaken the supply of services by weakening the private sector and the private sector. Because we know that it has been intended for some that this should be the case. That is why we reserve our vote until we have been through the second reading and have been allowed to go a little further into these answers and perhaps have some answers from the Minister to some of the questions that have already been asked here today. However, there should be no doubt that, apart from the fact that we want equality between public and private services, there must in any case be strong supervision. If, in this context, we could also discuss it and now I mention it for the 140th time from the Parliament's platform, the municipalities' framework to operate the services that citizens should be entitled to, including the system error made with our budget law; the system error introduced with a service ceiling in the municipalities and a tax freeze in the municipalities. We can do quite a lot of supervision and probably so much symptom treatment if there is no real freedom in the municipalities to make the decisions that are necessary for them to make things work. Otherwise, it will be just as it actually was under the previous government and then I myself was on the city council in Viborg, where there is suddenly an elderly billion coming from the finance negotiations, because you have to do something about it, and it has to look good from in here. But when we have a service ceiling, it's such a gift you don't want. For then you have to go in and cut in other areas so that you do not go up above the service ceiling and then get an economic punishment. This system is untenable if the municipalities are to meet the demands we make on them. We must give them freedom and I am quite sure that they will do much better than they can today. Because it's not bad will when things go wrong. I simply refuse to believe that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125121159	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Mette Thiesen from the New Citizens' Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125121205	I just needed to hear the rapporteur about something very brief. In fact, I do not remember whether the rapporteur was sitting with us when we negotiated this agreement. However, one of the things that, in relation to this agreement, is quite wild, I think, is that we do not make the same demands on the public actors as we do on the private sector, because we do not require an accountant to sign an account. You only look at budgets. We do not also require an accounting system in which we can see, as it were, whether we are observing the budget. This is not required of the public actors at that level of unity. So can the rapporteur not agree with New Citizens that, of course, all public services at unit level must also provide an accountant-signed accountant, so that there is full transparency in the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125121250	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125121251	Well, it is because I say that we want public and private offers to be equated, otherwise competition will be impeded, and the development of the services that actually exist will also be hampered. So, on all parameters, I think that the same requirements should be made. But that doesn't change the fact that I find it hard to say no when you're in this situation. Because if I don't get everything, if I don't get my way about the total advocacy between the two, should I say no to stronger supervision? You have to be careful not to let the best become the worst enemy of the good. That is why I reserve the right to bake things up a little bit more in my head than they are at present, and then we take a position during the course of the debate, depending on the answers we get from the Minister to these questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125121400	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of the Elderly. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125121412	Thank you. It's amazing what we hear each other ask about these times: did you drink? Yeah, I did well, so we're all safe! Thank you very much for the debate and receipt of the bill in this Chamber today, both for the constructive debate and for the fact that we must also say a few ideological strawmen here and there, but that is clearly what we are discussing here. At any rate, there should be no doubt whatsoever that it is a matter of the heart of the government that vulnerable children, vulnerable young people, vulnerable adults and people with disabilities or special social problems must be guaranteed the assistance and support to which they are entitled. In order for this to happen, the social services in our welfare societies must have the necessary quality, and for the government it is absolutely essential that the many public welfare funds we use in this area every year are used properly and, moreover, are used as intended for the benefit of the vulnerable citizens. At the same time, I would like to stress before anyone repeats that the government has nothing against private suppliers. We support the fact that there should be a wide range of offers, but this should not be done in a way that glorifies private people. This should not be done in a way that draws large sums away from the citizens for whom the funds are intended. The focus must be on quality for citizens and not on how to generate profits that can be drawn out as dividends. With the bill here, we are taking important steps to strengthen the framework for the work of the Social Protection Agency, to support a more uniform, coordinated and more effective social oversight which will help to ensure the quality of social services. And we strengthen the supervision by the Social Protection Agency of the economy of public and private services, while at the same time ensuring greater transparency in what the public crowns are used for, and putting some fence posts in proportion to what they should otherwise be used for. Social oversight of more muscles and better opportunities in general has long been in demand by many actors. The receipt of that part of the bill has also been positive. As we have seen in the hearings and have also been able to listen to today's debate, the special legislative proposal is part of strengthening financial supervision, which has been debated during the consultation phase. In consultation with the parties behind the agreement, we have made some important adjustments, and in this way we have come up with important criticisms, I would also just like to say to the rapporteurs who have informed themselves in the hearings and who may not have been able to follow up on the changes that have been made following the hearings. And I guess that's happened without giving up the important intentions of the agreement. This means that it is clear throughout the legislative proposal which rules apply to both public and private offers. It was a fundamental misunderstanding in some of the consultations that there should be a very large difference in what new requirements would apply to public and private individuals. The vast majority of the tightenings we make apply to both public and private, and we have written through the bill so that it is clear and, moreover, clarified the misunderstandings that have occurred. The requirement for the composition of the Board of Directors is relaxed, so that there is no prohibition on certain persons such as: If the property is rented out for the offer, it shall be on the Board of Directors of the offer, but shall not constitute a majority of the Board of Directors. The provision for the five-year waiting period of management and the board of directors at the closure of the offer by the Social Inspectorate has been amended so that the waiting period only applies in the future and does not occur automatically, and in addition only includes the management of the offer if it has contributed to or caused the closure. In addition, the Ministry will support the Social Inspectorate with statistics on the basis of the new data that we receive. It is no secret, and it has also been suggested in the debate here today, that the government would have liked to have gone further in relation to offers that draw funds out and completely away from the citizens. We will follow this very closely. Now we also get new figures which both make it possible for us to follow it closely from within politically, but also that we can follow it closely and assess whether we think it is right to notify offers which both generate large profits out of the tariffs they take from the municipalities and make profits. This is going to be a debate we are going to pursue, but with the agreement here we are now giving the possibility of being reasonably specific about the local authority. That is why I would just like to end by highlighting an important point that goes beyond the draft law: the political agreement on strengthening the Social Protection Agency will provide us with a much greater knowledge of the social offer picture and the economic conditions of the offers. And together with the parties to the agreement, I will follow it very closely. I am, of course, available to answer any questions which the committee might wish to clarify during the committee's proceedings, and I have taken into account in particular that there is some indication that we might need at least to clarify the adjustments made by the draft law following the consultation responses.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125121909	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. There are a few brief comments. The first one I would like to give the floor to is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125121917	Thank you so much. I would just like to hear the Minister quite simply elaborate on what dividends really are and what the difference between profits and dividends is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125121931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125121932	I think it is essential to focus on both things when assessing the economy of a bid and the prices or tariffs of a bid. It is, in fact, a problem if you run as an offer with rates that are so high that you continuously generate a large profit, because then the tariffs are set too high and the municipalities pay more than they should. And, of course, it is also problematic if, out of the profits you then generate, you choose not to reinvest that profit for the benefit of the citizens. It may be in the further and further training of the employees. It can, for example, be done. be the renovation of buildings where children are housed or other. Or you can choose to say that out of that profit you pay a substantial part as dividends to the ownership circle. It is money that goes completely away from the citizens they are intended for. I do not imagine that there are many local politicians around who want it when they need the budgets to go up in this specialized social area where the offers are so expensive. This is not a perfect market where you can choose and choose. There is no overcapacity, so you can choose and choose because the specialist offers are so expensive. They are not thinking: the money we find so difficult to find, we would like to be pulled out of the offers that we pay for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122039	I would just like to remind Mrs Mette Thiesen that if you have another comment, you will remember to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122046	Thank you, President. Okay, so that means you can't do good. That is more or less what remains, because profits are just a positive balance. That's one thing. I would then like to tell the Minister a little bit about dividends, because dividends are neither wages nor interest nor repayment of loans. It is a return on the capital invested and built up in the company. And if you are not allowed to pay dividends, or if there are limits on dividends beyond the limits of the company law, then the real value of the companies will be zero kroner. Then it doesn't really matter what you can or can't do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122132	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122133	I do not know whether the rapporteur can hear for himself that this is going to be a rather flat discussion if the conclusion is to be such, that is, if you do it well, you generate a profit. Does that mean that all those who do not generate a profit are equal to low quality? I do not think so. In fact, I do not think the rapporteur thinks so, if we are to take this discussion a little more seriously than that very oneliner. And if you can make an offer in a way that generates a profit year after year, is it not reasonable that you should lower your tariffs and then the municipalities can spend their money better for the benefit of the citizens? I wonder if New Citizens don't see it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122210	Thank you. Then it is DF's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122213	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we also sat at this table, and we had a great desire that whether you were private or public, there should be identical demands. Does the Minister not recognise that this bill is being discriminated against by imposing higher demands on private individuals? That's one thing. The second thing we have unfortunately witnessed is that there has been a huge failure in this area. We have seen this, and it has been done both in public and private terms, and this is totally unacceptable when it happens. But one is, it may be said, the offers, another is the responsibility of the municipalities in relation to the person-oriented supervision as well. So there are several elements in this, and one can say that strengthened supervision so far can not stand alone. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister thinks that unfair discrimination is being committed in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122316	Thank you. I do not think so. I also think that this discussion about the municipal units is a little misunderstood. I was so happy when Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats said that we should not go into detail about our municipal politicians in this way. Listen to this: The municipal units are subject to the overall municipal audit and they are managed under the responsibility of the municipal council and they are covered. It is a detailed management by Christiansborg, and it is also expensive if we are to go in and make different demands. That is not something that is being changed by this agreement; that is the way it is now, and that is the way it is after the agreement. So it's just to say that the question is whether you want to fundamentally change it and do away with it. Basically, I believe that it is up to the municipal council to manage public funds properly, but if we want to get away from it and have further detailed management from in here, we must also be prepared to find the means to do so. I did not want to spend the money on what I think it is better for us to use whatever means are available to raise the quality of the children exposed, placed, for people with disabilities, for homeless people, for those who are on these offers and depend on a proper quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122420	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122422	Quality is important, even in terms of how best to help citizens. But this is all about making less demands on the public and higher demands on the private in relation to offers, and there you have to have the same weighting. Then it is true that the municipal council has a responsibility, and they also have a responsibility, in relation to what they want in their offer and what they want to pay for. The municipal council also has a responsibility for this, in relation to whether or not they pay in expensive sentences. But it also depends, of course, on what quality you want so much. Quality and price are sometimes linked, but sometimes you can get quality for a smaller price.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122507	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122508	I do not quite know whether I heard any question in that, but just to make it clear, I would say that the draft law has been written through, so it has been made clear that the vast majority of these stricter requirements apply to the public as well as to the private sector. In those places where it does not apply, the municipal council has a duty, and there is also an overall municipal audit. Then you might think that we have to pay the municipalities one more time to bring this down to a level of detail that we will decide and interfere with, because we have no confidence in the municipal administration of taxpayers' money, but I would rather use those funds elsewhere in the system where they could benefit the citizens. However, I think it would be a good thing for us to clarify in the work of the committee that some of the concerns here in the hearings are misunderstood and that we have subsequently clarified this in the comments on the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122549	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122552	This is such a rather strange discussion, Minister, that is to say, the one with a surplus. Because there's gonna be an offer, and then you put your offer on the table, and then you write a contract. And if you have a profit afterwards, no, then you shouldn't lower your tariffs. You have a contract and if you are not allowed to generate a profit at all, then there is no reason to operate. One of the major problems in the public sector is the budget hunt, which is every year. Because if you have a surplus in the account, you have to hurry to spend some money so that you do not get cut in the budget afterwards, and nobody benefits from that. So that is something that should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122632	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122633	It is true that, in its sense, the municipalities are consumers here, because we have chosen to set up the specialized social area in Denmark in the way we have done, there is probably also an historical explanation for the fact that we have a significant part of the capacity that needs to be in relation to the citizens who have a private need. Historically, it has been in its own right, and in recent years we have seen more and more these commercial players, where several of the rapporteurs are particularly concerned about a concern in relation to foreign ownership chains and the vulnerability it can provide in terms of having the right capacity. I believe that it is important for municipalities to be critical consumers and to consider whether the limited taxpayers' money that they have, which is intended for the most vulnerable citizens, goes to it too, because it is a very high rate that has to be paid for these citizens and whether you actually get quality for those citizens for those tariffs. And if those tariffs go to finance a large surplus, which is then paid as dividends, then it is money that goes away from those citizens. And then I think that the only thing responsible for these municipalities is whether or not they have paid too high a tariff. And you're right, you have to go back to that deal, and it's gonna be better for the municipalities with this bill because we get more available accounting figures and key figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122741	Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122742	I do not disagree at all with the Minister, but it is the quality that is crucial. It must always be the quality that is crucial, and then you define the quality if you can otherwise find out how to make a proper tender document • the quality you want, and then, of course, there must be strong supervision of it. But if someone can deliver it at a better price and can actually deliver a profit in the company, then I have no problem with it. And then it is true that when a new contract and a new invitation to tender are to be made, you can always take it there. After all, you cannot just tell a company that it has to turn down the tariffs because it has a profit. It is not serious; then nobody wants to do business.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122823	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122824	I think that we should try to clarify how this works in committee. After all, these are concrete citizens and concrete agreements with concrete offers which are at issue here. We have a major tariff work going on in the Ministry in order to improve the clarity of tariffs. After all, you can only be a critical consumer if you have any insight into what the money is going to do and what it is that the citizens get from the stakes. That is a problem today, and we can do so, among other things. Do something by looking at the way the tariffs are calculated. However, we can also look at it through the tightening-up we are doing here, as I also heard the Christian Democrats' rapporteur well along the way supporting and expressing is necessary and good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122901	The last sign I have in this round is Mrs. Trine Torp of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125122905	Thank you. I very much agree with the Minister that, with this draft law, what we are emphasising is that the municipalities have a huge responsibility to buy these seats, and we are actually giving them greater opportunities to take on that responsibility by making more information visible on the offer portal. But I also think it is important to stress in some way what this critical consumer thing means. So my question will actually be how the Minister will, so to speak, help critical consumers to be so. For now, with this bill, we have given them an opportunity to do so, but there is also a practice in the municipalities in which this has to be implemented, so that we are sure that they actually use those tools. Because we are counting on the municipalities to do so. When we do not impose any restrictions, we are counting on the municipalities to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125123007	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125123009	If I had wanted us to go further than we do with the legislative proposal here today, then it is because all this talk about the specialized social area as a market and with some consumers, which you can just equate with all sorts of other markets and consumers, is a truth with very big modifications, we have to say. This is not a perfect market with free competition, but we are dealing with extremely specialized and very expensive services where you do not sit and run with some overcapacity that allows you to just shop around. Moreover, we have to make important of everything with people, and people do not move around as if they were condisko or mobile phones. So it is clear that there are some very great limitations to this, and that is why I would have liked us to go closer to managing that the funds in this area benefit the citizens and they do not end up in some of the violent cases we have seen in the press, where millions of kroner have been drawn from children placed in care and used to invest in large private forest areas in Sweden or pleasure houses. I don't remember the stories that have been going on, but I think it shows why this thing about relying on this to function as a clean market is going to fail.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125123109	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125123130	The Social Democrat rapporteur is already on the platform. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125123156	Thank you, Madam President. L 65 is about making a wide range of conditions more flexible for lgbtq+ people who experience the meeting with the public. It is a single legislative proposal which takes a number of different initiatives to make it more flexible. This is a trade, for example. on the possibility of being registered as a co-mother at birth, and here a special thanks is due to my own former colleague Liv Gro from Aarhus, who has fought a great battle for both to become a co-mother, but also for her child to be given a gender-neutral name. We need strong forces that point in the direction of a new time. In addition to this, it is also about the possibility of being allowed to change one's name on the basis of one's gender identity, and these are really good changes at all. Today you can be a family in a lot of different ways, because there are a lot of different ways to be human, and of course the legislation here must be the same as the time we live in, and it should not be the case that rainbow families have to go through an extra layer of bureaucracy in the public sector in order for their family composition to be properly recorded. With this bill, we are thus allowing lesbian couples from birth to be registered legally as mother and co-mother, and I think that is a very good step in the right direction. In the name law as it is today, it is a longer process if a transperson wants to change his name, which is more appropriate to one's gender identity. It is also here a place where legislation is updated. So it has to be easier to change your name, so it's more similar to your gender identity, while at the same time it's also possible to change your CPR number. In short, we therefore improve equal treatment for couples of the same sex and transsexuals in Denmark, both when it comes to getting the name you want, the cpr number that suits you, and that you are registered for the specific parent relationship where you have your child, and therefore, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125123416	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Camilla Fabricius. There are no brief comments. After that, the rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, is the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125123429	Thank you for the floor. Since, unfortunately, Stén Knuth, who is the rapporteur on the proposal, could not be here today, I should also like to take this with me. I am glad that today we have the opportunity in the Chamber to discuss this proposal which will make life a little easier for rainbow families, homosexual couples and transsexuals who start families and have children. We in the Left believe that everyone should have the opportunity to live out their sexuality in the way they want. The Left believes that it is important here to look at how the legislation can be adapted so thatlgbt+ people can see their own life situation reflected in the rules. The rules that we are trying to change today are based on a very common understanding of what a family should look like. However, we should also be particularly keen on the new situations that can arise just as a result of the legislative proposal. I am particularly sensitive to the fact that one of the answers to the hearing is that of the Children's Council, which refers to the fact that the best interests of the child are not adequately explained in the proposal. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to the question of the child's right to know its biological origin, to know the identity of his biological father, even if the family consists of two mothers and the danger in most cases will not have a role in the child's life. In the Left, we certainly do not think that we should encourage the passing of that information or pass by the child when they get older and perhaps want to know. It seems that this may be the case when the proposal will in several ways cause more couples to take advantage of home insemination. Here it will be worth looking at how we can ensure that the identity of the danger is not lost, so that children can access information about the donor on an equal footing with children brought to the world through an ordinary sperm donation. Another point I note is the question of a possible right of withdrawal. In principle, we in the Left think it is very positive that a registered partnership of two women can register their parents automatically. At the same time, we cannot quite let go of the idea: what if one of them regrets? We heard from last week's technical review of the proposal that there is no right of withdrawal. In concrete terms, the process will be such that a couple register via a form submitted, who are parents of the child, and as soon as this has come into the hands of the public, the decision is final. But let's say the couple split up, two weeks after the form has been sent in, and the child has not yet been born. Although it is a resolution that cannot be undone and although both parties are certainly aware of this, it should seem that some will think that it is beating unfair. Some will probably also try to go back on the decision. In a crisp, heterosexual couple there will at least be a biological relation to the child. The danger may be so annoying, but the relationship cannot be denied. In this case, the child will stand with a co-mother who may have a feeling that they have no relationship, other than a sense of ownership or obligation. I agree that these situations can well arise, even as the rule is today and also for heterosexual couples, but there must nevertheless be a feeling that there is a difference between whether you become a parent as a result of a pregnancy or because of the submission of a form. For the vast majority of couples and in the vast majority of situations, I believe that the proposal here will bring joy to parents and create good families for the children that you become parents into. However, the rights of the child still have to take precedence over those of the parents. We cannot therefore look beyond the issues raised by the proposal. We will seek some answers to them before we can say more clearly whether or not we can finally support the proposal, but we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125123819	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. Then we will have to blow off before we welcome the rapporteur of the DF, and that is Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125123843	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party, we consider this bill to be an expression of the wave of identity policy that abolishes the traditional family and makes sex optional. In the Danish People's Party, we are opposed to identity policy measures, and we believe that it is necessary to do away with them. Of course, it is quite okay that two men, two women, two tangled, two whatever lives together, and all these life forms are, in my opinion, perfectly in order, but they are not necessarily a family. A family is a woman and a man and some children. There are two genders, woman and man, and you can't choose for yourself what you want to be. If we let the concepts of family and gender flow and act as if you can decide when you are a family and when you have one sex and the other sex, we create confusion and disorder. The family in its traditional version is the foundation of our society and the foundation of our culture, just as gender is one of the pillars of our individual identity. If we allow the concepts to float, we risk instability and uncertainty and thus great difficulties for young people to find out what their identity really is. That is why it is good that until today we have had the state in the form of health care workers over when someone wants to take on a motherhood, when you are not a mother, when you want to call yourself a father, even if you are actually a mother, or when you want to be called something else, because you feel like a different sex. In the Danish People's Party, we voted against the co-maternity clause introduced in 2013 and we are therefore, of course, also opposed to extending this right, so that we should not have a supervisory body over it, such as this bill. That's what I'm talking about. We are failing the opportunity for the next generations to create a secure identity in a complex world if we leave gender and family concepts up to each individual's own definition. That is why we cannot accept the bill. However, this does not mean that we condemn homosexuals, lesbians, tranned or others' life forms, but we cannot accept a redefinition of what a family is or an attempt to remove the importance of the biological sex. The Danish People's Party cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124102	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment, so I would like to give the floor to Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124109	Thank you. I'm very interested in this because we can't redefine what a family is. Because I don't really know exactly where to look up or who really defines it. It sounds a little like it's Mrs. Marie Krarup who decides what a real family is. If two women and their children cannot be a family, are you not a family, if you are a single parent and children, and if a family is divorced, is it not a family anymore? What is a family then in the view of the Danish People's Party, and who has made the Danish People's Party a judge of what a real family is?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124155	I have never heard the phrase'sorry', nor do I know whether it is a swearing word or what it is, but at least the rapporteur must be allowed to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124206	We stand on a thousand years of tradition for a family to be a man and a woman. They're the ones who can make a family. And then there are divided families, that's clear. We have people who have divorced, we have families where one has died and we have brought together families and so on. But you're not a family when you're two of the same sex, because you can't have children. But you can live together, and we have nothing against that, and you are welcome to do so. You just can't call it a family. It's like you can't say that you can choose your own sex, because there are some given things. There are some very, very few people, fortunately a very small percentage who are born with a gender that cannot be identified and that must be very difficult. But by far, the vast majority can be identified. So it's too strange to start making it optional, and it's those old-fashioned things that we want us to hold on to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124317	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124320	I think that what is important to hold onto here is that Mrs Marie Krarup says that the Danish People's Party does not want to condemn people who live together in a love relationship and are of the same sex or who are transpersonal, but I think that if you are a transperson, if you live in a rainbow family, if you are in a relationship with one of the same sex, it feels extremely judgmental to be told that you cannot be a real family. It is precisely to condemn those people, because then they will not be allowed to be right in the view of the Danish People's Party. And I can promise the rapporteur that no matter what the Danish People's Party thinks,
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124402	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124403	But with all due respect, it's nonsense. It is not the case that you are a real person only if you live in a family, as we say is a family. We are just saying that there is a definition of a family, and that is a man and a woman because they can have children, and that is the traditional definition of a family. That's why you're not a lesser person because you're not a family. There are just some definitions that we need to stick to in order to maintain the order in which we live. But that is why the legislation can be used in other ways to try legally to equate relationships, but it is not a family.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124444	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124451	Thousands of years of tradition and then I think: Mrs. Marie Krarup is well educated and has a great wit and otherwise a great view and knows much. Is it the families in Africa where the centre of the large families was that it was the women who had the children and that one lived in a family structure where the men were somewhere else? Was it the women Vikings, the chicken maidens, who were out on the water, or were it the women who owned the property a thousand years ago in Denmark? Or what is it? I am really leaning on what the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten says. But is it really about what Mrs Krarup's gut is, what she defines as a family?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124553	So, after Christianity was introduced in Denmark in 965, we got practically legislation that fled with the Christian view of human beings. So before that: No, there was the practice of e.g. putting small children out to the wolves if they were deformed somehow. We had absolutely nothing to identify with today. But after Christianity has been introduced, we have actually made what we now call the traditional family our smallest building block in society, and I think there is reason to hold on to that. I do not think we should open the doors to new family forms, which can become a slippery path for it to be something completely different, perhaps. This actually opens up for the social parent, so that means that we actually have families with more parents. I think that is a slippery path to redefine what a family is, and I think that is dangerous and will cause confusion. It will be difficult to grow up in societies where you cannot really see what the social order is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124706	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no more brief remarks... Yes! You have to remember to sign up if you want another brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124714	I am sorry about that, President. As far as this is concerned, which Mrs Marie Krarup thinks is something you choose to be, so that one day you wake up and say: "Oh, come on, now I want to be a transperson, I would just like Mrs Marie Krarup to come along for a round of dialogue coffees with a number of people I associate with, love and know about, and then I hope that Mrs Marie Krarup will be a little bit smarter about choosing or being.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124748	It is quite clear that there is a small group of people where it is simply unclear what sex you belong to and where you are trans; there is no doubt about that, but to make it a problem that concerns everyone is to exaggerate. I find it worrying to see how many young people today are sexually confused, and that is because we are going to have to choose one's own sex instead of going into the created reality, which is now where one has got a gender in the vast majority of cases, and then there are these border cases where one does not have it, where there are some biological things that are very specific and very, very special, but it is a very small minority.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124830	Thank you to DF's rapporteur. Now there are no more brief comments, and then we should welcome the SF rapporteur. This is Mrs. Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125124850	Thank you. I would actually have started my speech in a different way, but now I just think I would like to start by emphasising to the many, I have a perception of lgbt+ families and organisations that actually see with today that a family is what you make it. A family can easily be two women who have children together, two men who have children together, or more people than two who have children together, in the same way as one can be single and have children. A family is what you make it. I think that is very important to emphasise, and I think that in this proposal, too, we are proposing that we should now make the legislation more flexible so as to make it easier to be the family you are. But just because the legislation has not been flexible in the past does not mean that those families are not out there today. They just find it very difficult to fit into the legislation we have. I and the rest of the SF are really happy with the improvements contained in this proposal. So, of course, we agree with the proposal, which has several very good elements, which are steps in the right direction. It is absolutely essential that families with one or more lgbt+ persons are treated in the same way as all other families and that transpersonals receive more rights. I know that this proposal does not bring us into this area, but it is a good step on the way. I am, for example. Very pleased that the very cumbersome and also cross-border documentation requirements for home insemination should be in the shredder. I have come across countless stories about the difficult encounter of lgbt+ families with the system and especially in connection with home insemination. Today it is the case that if two women want to have a family with a well-known donor and in their own homes, a health care professional must be present before the co-mother can be registered as a co-mother, and so it is both a cross-border and unnecessary requirement that the health care system should be almost into the bedroom. So I'm really glad we're done with that. With the proposal here, we also guarantee better rights for transversals. Firstly, they may be allowed to change to a name appropriate to their gender identity without having to change legal gender. It may be a longer process and therefore it is good that before that process is completed, you can change to the name you want. It may seem like a small thing for us who are not transpersonals, but it is extremely important for the individual and it can create enormous distrust if, as a transperson, you meet the name you have said goodbye to the dead name, as transpersonals call it • time and time again before you succeed in getting through with their legal change of sex. For me, it is absolutely crucial that old and rigid ideas about names should not, of course, create displeasure with our transsexuals in Denmark. Secondly, it is good that parents who have changed legal genders before they become parents are now registered as the gender with which they identify, so that a father who gives birth is the child's father. Because it can be very cross-border for a feeding transperson to be met in public as a mother when you are not. So this bill is undoubtedly a really important step for the rights and parenthood of transsexuals. We're happy today in the SF. We compare the many different family forms in Denmark better. They are not entirely equal, but we are well on our way, and that is good for the parents and, above all, for the children in those families. We also know that we are not there yet. Many major steps still need to be taken before we achieve real equality for people with disabilities, and that counts, for example. more rights for co-parents and co-parents, but we are working on this in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125125247	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125125303	Denmark has often played a leading role in the region of lgbt+, but that does not mean that there should then be no further improvements to be made. This bill has been awaited for a long time, because the government came up with its very fine proposal: "Freedom to differ" in August 2020, and this bill translates some of the initiatives, namely those in the field of family law, and that means that it must be easier to change the first name, so that it is consistent with the gender identity that people have the opportunity to become parents according to their gender, and then it also entails a flexibility in registering co-maternity. These are major and good advances which we in the Radical Left warmly support. But there is also reason to bear in mind some of the things that we didn't see going to the end of this bill. As among others: The hearing from the Institute for Human Rights points out that male solo parents and families made up of male homosexual couples are not fully taken into account. Specifically, it is the case today that a male homosexual couple who have a child cannot both be registered as legal parents of the child. It is the case that it is only a few years later, in other words a few years into the child's life, that the non-biological father can be allowed to adopt his own child. I have met with several of these families, and their frustrations are really touching, and I believe that we should also do something in this area. That must be the next step. Having said that, we naturally support the legislative proposal in the Radical Left, but we also note that there is more to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125125503	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125125520	Thank you. There are some laws that you wish there were many more who heard about or had followed, and this is clearly one of them. These are some measures that we in the Enhedslisten and I, as rapporteur, have been having trouble with for almost a decade and are finally being implemented. And there is no doubt that when we saw this on the legislative programme, we were really, really happy. When I was such a relatively newly elected member of parliament, I was involved in the drafting of the law on co-maternity and was in the negotiations on it. At the time it was the case that if a lesbian couple wanted to have a child, the non-born would have to wait 21⁄2 years to adopt his own child, which meant that there were some families where there were two mothers with whom the child grew up, but where the child did not have the same rights. There was a risk that if something happened to one mother, the child couldn't stay with the other. And there were divorces in the early years, which meant that women were unable to see their children and children had no right to their parents. Fortunately, we changed that. At that time, however, some mysterious claim had to be made about the presence of a health care professional, and it was not possible at that time to knock into someone's heads that married heterosexual women can be absolutely as loose as married lesbian women, because that is what it all comes down to. The argument was that then a woman can just go out and have sex with a man in a bar, and then he can't raise a paternity case. And that is also the case with heterosexual couples today, so we are actually on an equal footing with the area, and that is absolutely fantastic. This also means that those children will grow up in more stable situations and that all the obstacles that have been created that result, because they have been given wrong advice in the health care system or something else, that a child is suddenly without two parents, that is to say only one on paper. We can avoid that. At the same time, there is the possibility that transpersonals can have parenthood in accordance with their lived social and legal sex. It also creates much more stability in families, that you are allowed to be on paper what you really are and that, as surrounding societies, we do not insist on deciding what people should be and what is right and wrong, but leave families to be families. Few people are really involved, but I have talked to many of those who have been in trouble, either because the rules of co-maternity did not work or because transpersonals have not been allowed to be parents according to the gender they are legally and as they live as. It has really great consequences for them, and therefore it is an important day, even though they are not many people. I believe that the next step will hopefully be that we will have gender-neutralised parenthood. There are so many concepts now. There's no particular reason why we should be pretty, what kind of parent you are. You're a parent, and you're equally good whether you're a woman, a man, a transperson, a nonbinary, or whatever you are. And then I also think that a next step must be for children to have the right to have more than two legal parents, because there are real families where there are more than two parents with their children, but unfortunately the children are only entitled to the two of them. Again, this is not only a problem for parents, but certainly also a problem for those children who do not have the full rights of the parents with whom they grow up. But this is a step on the way, and we will, of course, continue to fight for the next steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125125930	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Yeah, stop, hold on a second! That came at the last minute. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125125939	Thank you, President. Stop! Well, I just wanted to hear about something. Now, when the rapporteur talks about gender neutrality and talks about equality here, I would very much like to hear whether the rapporteur too thinks that section 109 of the Services Act should be gender-neutralised. After all, violence is thought to be violence, and no matter who it is, they must, of course, have the same rights. So what the rapporteur has just said in his rapporteur's speech is not really true of people who are victims of domestic violence?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130006	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130007	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130013	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130015	Why, then, did the Enhedslisten vote against when we tabled a motion for a resolution precisely to neutralise Article 109? I have talked to the rapporteur about this in the past, and the rapporteur is beginning to talk about section 109a or something else, and that was just not the tones I heard from the rapporteur. But I am extremely happy if the rapporteur will vote in favour of gender neutralising Article 109, because then we can just table the resolution again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130037	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130038	I think it is extremely interesting that we are now discussing another motion for a resolution which we have dealt with once and on which I have made a rapporteur's speech and have answered questions about before. But in the Enhedslisten, of course, we think that men should have the right to both psychotherapy, outpatient treatment and, moreover, the right to stay in a shelter with their children if they are victims of violence. This cannot be done without gender neutralising Article 109, but some other legislation can be made. That is why we have among other things. also set in motion a study to ensure that we get a proper knowledge of the men who are victims of violence and who are at the crisis centre today, so we are sure that what we write in the paragraph is what they need. So, yes, of course, you have to have the same rights as women. New citizens just haven't caught the good way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130118	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments, and then we thank Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, here you go to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130137	The draft law here lays down three general amendments: a reduction in the registration of co-maternity, the determination of the parenthood of transpersonals and a change in the name of transpersonals. Now I will not repeat what the other rapporteurs have already said. However, I would like to say that this is an area in which we must be careful not to let ourselves be carried away, while, of course, we must modernise the legislation. A good example is children's right to legal gender change, which we Conservatives are very opposed to. We are because children must be children, even though it may be well-intentioned, if at some point we choose to go further than what this bill proposes. Having said that, we believe that this bill does not exceed that limit. It is about adults who exercise their right to self-determination. In addition, it is about giving better opportunities and rights to live as you want, no matter what family structure you have. The legislation must keep up with time. That's why the Conservative People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130313	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I think we should move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130322	Thank you so much. You have to hear a lot before your ears fall off. If anyone had asked me yesterday whether the Conservative People's Party would support this bill, I would have said: no! But I hear you do. Well, I just have to say that I have had to read this bill extremely many times. I have also had to look at the documents that came in connection with this technical statement. Because you have to be so woke to understand how this is connected. And, unfortunately, that is part of this, in my opinion, a slippery course of identity policy that we are in. Now we are talking about the legal shift to children, and we are very opposed to that. And when you read this bill, it says, and now quotes directly from the bill: "It is not connected either, when a transperson who has carried out a legal change of sex to a man, on the one hand, by a statement can get a new social security number that fits with the experienced male gender identity, but on the other hand cannot be allowed to be the father of the child he gives birth. So men can't give birth to children... period. There are two pretty sentences. And this is just not connected in my world. I've still gone crazy many questions, and it's just to understand what's up and down in this. But in New Citizens, we can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130446	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130451	It's just to correct Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Well, there are men who can have children. There are men who legally, on paper, are a man who has a uterus and can have children. And it may well be that you can't put it in your head like that and that it can be weird, and I think that's fair enough. However, Mrs Mette Thiesen cannot change that, no matter how many times Mrs Mette Thiesen says it from the speaking chair of the Folketing, like Mrs Mette Krarup, no matter how many times she says it from the speaking chair of the Folketing, is not allowed to decide what is a family and what is not a family. And I just think that I would appeal that, although things may be a little strange, you look a little less judgmental at the people who are right
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130541	This isn't about being judgmental. People must live as they please. But no: There are two sexes, and men cannot have children. Period.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130549	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130551	But it's just judgmental. I mean, you can't be spacious and then say there's only two genders. There are non-binary people who do not define themselves as either a man or a woman or as both. It is therefore damning to say to them that they do not exist, just as it is judgmental to say to the transsexuals who are men and who live as men, and who legally, on paper, are men, but who have a uterus and can bear a child, that they do not exist. Well, I don't know what kind of dictionary Mrs. Mette Thiesen is looking up in. But the fact that, from the right side in here, you look up to be the great advocates of rainbow families wandering around to pride and everything else and say that uh, I'm not judgmental, while in practice it's just the little square in front of your own nose that can be reality, is judgmental.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130650-2	No, it's science. According to science, there are two genders. And no matter how many times Enhedslisten talks about how and how they think things are connected, so no: There are no men who have a uterus. There are two sexes; there is a man, and there is a woman. And as Mrs Krarup said earlier, there are also some who are born as a bit of a mixture. But as a starting point, yes, there are two genders. And this is the dictionary called common sense, and I would very much like to show it to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten one day.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130722	Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130726	I think it's nice to hear that New Citizens bring it in on knowledge and research and honesty. We'll save it for another time. I should just like to know whether the rapporteur acknowledges that when you are registered and you are thus a man under Danish law, you subsequently give birth to a child as a man? What, then, is it that the rapporteur brings it forward? So isn't it really about sensations and visions and something that you experience as such? So what does the rapporteur think? Are these the rules that are applied in New Citizens? Or are they sights?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130825	I believe that what the rapporteur means by this question is this legal change of sex, which is a law that was passed before the new citizen came to parliament. And this is what to say about an extension of how to define it. So I just want to maintain what I said to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur before, that is, that there are two genders and that men cannot have children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130853	So that means that all the legislation that has been passed before the new citizens entered the Parliamentary Chamber does not apply to the new citizens? So the legislation that was when the rapporteur signed the Constitution does not apply because it was something that was before the New Citizen? So these are the places where the rapporteur himself thinks that something is fair that you can lean on, and that this legislation that has been adopted, that you can actually change genders and that you can be the father of a child you give birth to, does not one like it because it was before you entered?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125130933	I do not think that the Social Democrats or the Socialist rapporteur should speak too loudly about complying with the legislation. It's just such a good advice from here. On the second point: no, this is an extension. And when there's something that's factually wrong about a man having a baby, I just have to say that it's not something we support. One can easily live completely free in Denmark in all sorts of different ways, and we will not interfere in that at all, but when one begins to go down this identity policy path where one appears to be among other things. I say 'no' and 'no' and 'no' when you start talking about legal sex change for children. I just have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125131027	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to know whether anyone wants to act as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, the Free Greens or the Christian Democrats, because that is now. There isn't. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125131048	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by signing off on the receipt of the bill and on the most constructive debate that we have had in this Chamber today. Today you can be family in more than one way and with different constellations of people in the family. Unfortunately, there are still some parts of the legislation in the area of family law that do not take that into account. It is the government's view that in Denmark couples of the same sex and transsexuals should be able to establish a family without the state interfering unnecessarily. You have to be able to take the place in a family that you want. Moreover, it does not make sense for transsexuals today to have to go through a comprehensive process if they want to take a first name that denotes the opposite sex, especially when a transperson today, by a statement, can get a social security number appropriate to the opposite sex, a so-called legal change of sex. That is why, first of all, it is absolutely essential that with this bill we ensure that the rules on registration of co-maternity are made more flexible so that co-maternity is automatically registered when a lesbian couple who are married has a child together. The same will apply to rainbow families, whether the mother's partner is to be the child's co-mother or the sperm donor is to be the child's father. In addition, it is also important that those who become parents should be recognised by becoming parents in accordance with the legal gender they have chosen. Finally, it is really positive that transsexuals get easier to change their first name, and last but not least, as some have spoken about here on the platform that they have fought for at least longer than I have been in the area, that we make the changes in relation to health care requirements by assisted reproduction. This bill ensures greater equality of treatment for same-sex couples, but also for those involved in parenting, and I think that is an extremely important step towards guaranteeing the rights of people with disabilities, and I am, of course, at the disposal of any questions from the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125131251	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I would suggest that we send the bill to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We'll just breathe until we have the right minister present. He's here, and then we can get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125131314	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Troels Ravn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125131350	Thank you for that, President. We have here a rather technical and extensive legislative proposal which concerns a number of measures in the area of property. It is an area that has been faced with challenges that cannot be said otherwise. Fortunately, we have jointly agreed across the Folketing that newer and improved assessments and a new tax system should be developed. And there is light ahead, because we have now begun to send new property assessments to the Danes. Hopefully this will be the beginning of the end of a long history of suffering. So the bill here aims to contribute to the restoration of the property area and the implementation of the housing tax settlement from 2017. As mentioned above, the draft law consists of a number of proposals. The first proposal translates parts of the housing tax settlement from 2017 and the compensation agreement from 2020. Here we agreed that the coverage tax revenue in each municipality should increase by approx. 37 per cent. in 2022 compared to 2021. This must of course be seen in the continuation of the fact that, as you know, the tax base has been frozen since 2012. At the same time, it is planned to continue the ceiling of the municipal coverage flicker so that they cannot be increased from 2021 up to 2028. The next proposal deals with the charging model for the coverage tax. In the run-up to the launch of the new business assessments, the cover tax will be levied provisionally on the basis of the old assessment system. This brings with it a degree of uncertainty. That is why the draft law provides for a reduction in the increase from the provisional levy so that businesses can pay up to 30%. more than 2021. At the same time, however, a floor limit has been introduced to allow companies to pay up to 30%. more than they did in 2021. Finally, for the public buildings for each tax year 2022 and 2023 at property level, an amount equal to that collected for the tax year 2021 is charged. In this way, we will guarantee companies against excessive collections. Thirdly, an extension of the so-called 'Parcel House Rule' is proposed. The Parcelhus rule means that you are not taxed on profits from the sale of properties in which you have lived while you owned the property. The rule is now proposed to be extended, so that a property owner who has asked for part of his land to be cut, but who dies before the grubbing-up case has been closed, should not be taxed on profits, which is to say a fair change of rules. In addition, it is proposed that the conditions for the ordinary and extraordinary reopening of an assessment case be harmonised, so that the same margin of discretion of plus/minus 20%, which already applies to the appeal authorities' handling of a complaint and to the extraordinary reopening of the tax administration, is extended to the ordinary reopening and resumption of proceedings by the tax administration. This means that the draft law gives the same opportunity to change an assessment, whether a property owner asks for a review at first instance or a complaint to the appeal body. Finally, a number of adjustments and clarifications on the new property assessments are proposed. This is in order to ensure the best possible administrative basis for the tax administration so as to avoid as far as possible doubts about the rules. Summing up, we in the Social Democratic Party think that this bill is an important part of the work on implementing the 2017 housing tax settlement, and we therefore support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125131806	You're welcome, sir. Troels Ravn. There are no brief comments, so I have the pleasure of welcoming Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125131818	Thank you. The former rapporteur very well explained what the draft law is about. This has primarily to do with the coverage tax proposal for 2022, and it is the implementation of a settlement that we have on security of housing taxation. This is, of course, a settlement that we stand by in full. The idea is that we must rebuild the entire housing tax part of Denmark, and that is not exactly the easiest task. It has proved to be very, very difficult, both IT-wise in terms of creating a proper system and also to ensure proper financial management of the system. We have heard that lately, and we are certainly very concerned about that. It certainly raises the question of whether another time you just have to scrap an IT system. It was the National Audit that said to drop the property valuations back in 2012, but we haven't had ratings since then we didn't have anything else to put in place. Now we are now trying to make up for the sins of the past. It is a really, really difficult task, and it goes really, really very wrong, and we are really, really worried about that. But I want to say that we are also taking it on board: we need to solve this; we need to have a tax system that works; we need to rebuild the tax administration and make sure that you can assess the properties; and we also need to ensure that you can continue to make a coverage tax calculation. And that's what we're doing here. And this isn't a funny bill. This is something we have to do to be responsible and to be sure that we can still finance our welfare community. That is why, of course, we support the agreement we have made and this bill. But I also have to say that this isn't how I think this is just a walk in the park. I have a lot of concerns about the housing tax system, and I also have a lot of concerns just about this bill. We can see that there are a number of concerns in the consultation responses. Danish Industry has raised concerns about the fact that they believe that there is an extra bill and that the delayed property assessments create uncertainty for companies. And I can actually follow that. After all, we also need to make a provisional coverage fee for 2022 instead of a real one, because there are delays. And we're worried about that too. So I understand that concern, because we need to ensure that there is stability for companies and that you can predict what you have of spending. But, of course, we also need to find a solution. And we also have revenue that we need to get in, otherwise we will not be able to finance our welfare society. There are also a number of other elements of concern raised in the consultations, including the possibility of redress. Overall, we think this bill is extremely technically complicated, and we would therefore like to propose that we conduct a technical consultation in committee so that we can have this dealt with in more depth and get a more thorough look at it. But basically, of course, we support the idea that we should clarify what the cover tax is. We are sorry that it comes so late and so close to New Year, because it gives us a much pressured process, including for us in terms of legislation. But we just have to do our best and make sure we get the best possible result. So let us go deeper into committee reading and otherwise we will support the basic legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125132201	Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. There are no comments. Louise Schack Elholm Should I wipe off?). Sure, we've started a new period as far as corona is concerned. Welcome to sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125132218	Thank you. This bill is, to say the least, quite technical and consists of many different elements. It actually makes it quite difficult to write a coherent speech about it, but it may also illustrate very well why these problems have arisen with the development of the new property assessment system. 'Cause I guess there are quite a few people in this country who can explain this law that's supposed to do the assessments. I have to say that I find it difficult to see through it, and it is, after all, we who have made the legislation, so to imagine that we have to make such a mass administration of a legal basis that is so complicated that there is virtually no one who can see through it, must almost end up with problems, and that is also what it has done. The reason for the bill is precisely that we need a new property assessment system, which is why there is a partial implementation of the agreement we made back in 2017. It deals with many different things, so I do not want to go into all of them, but one of them, and it is also the one that fills in the consultation answers, is the rule on the coverage tax that some municipalities collect. There will be a permeation here based on what we agreed back in 2017, so that is why we support that part. There are many other different elements and one of them, for example. such a minor thing, but which may of course be important to the individual, namely to continue the exemption from the increase in the basic amount of the debt by a marriage partner, and which makes good sense. Why do you suddenly have to go aground, because the other mate is suddenly the owner of the property. The only point I want to go down a little bit, and I am also a little critical of, is what is called paragraph 3.6 of the comments on the draft law, the harmonization of the conditions for ordinary and extraordinary reinstatement, where I find it difficult to understand exactly what is happening. However, as I read it, it is actually a fairly serious deterioration in the legal certainty of citizens, in other words, there will be a reduced opportunity to complain, or a complaint may be more when you move on to an appeal board, but at least you will have to correct quite obvious errors or assessments that may be quite biased, and I do not really think that is particularly good. It has to be seen in the light of the fact that as things stand now, this new system that you are developing is actually actually quite imprecise. In 29%. Of the cases, more than 20% will be hit. So there are quite a lot of homes that will have a skewed assessment, and that is why: when you have a system that taxes on a rather crooked basis, yes, it is absolutely essential that you then allow the citizens to correct these assessments and get a good complaint process about it. As I read here, at least so far, it is the case that it is a deterioration in the ability of citizens to change their wrong assessments, and I really do not think that is particularly good. However, as I said, I may be the one who misunderstood, so I will at least start with a technical examination of it in the Committee on Taxation, and then we will have to take a position on it, and perhaps we can get some good explanations. It may also be that it ends up with some clarification, so that we ensure that there is better legal certainty; I do not know that. Now it is a first reading, so it is only our immediate position that we have to say something about, but if I have understood correctly, I can at least say that we do not want to support that part, but that can of course change in committee. So summing up, we are positive about the vast majority of small adjustments contained in the legislative proposal, but the last part here we are quite critical of.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125132523	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125132533	Thank you. SF is not part of the settlement that is about the housing tax, from which this bill comes. In addition, we do not see the need to prevent the municipalities from adjusting the coverage charges; a limitation that continues with the proposal that lies here. We believe that the good municipal politicians around the country best know where their tax rate should be and if, for example, a majority of the municipal council in Aalborg is to be found. estimates that Aalborg's citizens are best served by charging a little higher cover fees to the companies in the municipality and spending the extra money on care for the elderly, so this is not something we want to sit 400 km away from the municipality and interfere in. The other measures contained in the draft law are somewhat more technical and we consider them to be generally fine proposals, but we are not in the conciliation and do not believe, as I said, that there is a need to restrict the freedom of municipalities in setting the cover tax, so we cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125132630	You're welcome, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no brief comments here either, so we move on to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125132640	Thank you very much, President. The Socialist tax rapporteur explained quite well the technique of this proposal, so I will not try to do so. But I would like to make some general comments on this conciliation, which we in the Radical Left are also involved in. Now maybe we have the opportunity to actually comment on some of the last few days of criticism, as there has been from the Reichsaudit of this agreement that was concluded in 2017. I know that the assessment system and the collapsed assessment system have a long way to go, about 10 years later, but this is about the 2017 agreement, which, when I look at it in such a general way, a long way along the way, I do not really believe that any criticism can be levelled at. I know, and everyone knows, that it is an incredibly difficult task that we have put ourselves in, namely to develop an assessment system and set up a bulletproof tax system in this area. And there we are going to create a system which, by the way, we will also be able to export to other countries that have not broken the code yet either. We also have a system that I think the rest of Denmark will be jealous of. That being said, I do not think you can blame system developers for spending a long time on it either. It's being postponed over and over again. I'm on it, but I guess it's also because from the beginning, when you've done this project description, you haven't had an overview of how long this takes at all, and what it's like for a job we've been throwing ourselves into. So if there is something to be criticised, then that is what precedes the process and the optimism that perhaps lay in the original political agreement, where you can see again and again that because of political zeal to act and to act now and to do things tomorrow you sometimes forget that things are difficult, which makes people forget to get things done properly. So I feel that I think that the criticism of the National Audit Office boasts a great deal, at least on me, and I do not recognise that the parties of the Danish Parliament have not been involved in the process either. So I'm not gonna say all this after the tax minister's appointment, so I just need to say that. I am simply saying this because I actually find that it is a criticism which misses quite a lot. This is extremely difficult, and Parliament's parties, or at least us in the conciliation group, have been very close to the process in the Treasury. So that was really just what I wanted to say, and of course we support this excellent and technical legislative proposal that helps implement the conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125132920	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125132924	Thank you. Now all I have to do is fully understand what the rapporteur is saying. For the rapporteur says that this was a problem with the conciliation that was made back in 2016 of which the rapporteur's party itself was a part and where a new tax system would be created. But was it okay to just completely drop having a property assessment system, so that's not where the mistake was made? The rapporteur believes that the mistake was made only when agreements were made to create a new system. It was not when the old system was dropped?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125132950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125132951	I'm just having a really hard time hearing. Maybe it's because I forgot my hearing aid today. I do not know whether the question can be repeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125132959	You can if it's a nice president, and that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133005	What I am saying is that it sounds as if the rapporteur thinks that the mistake was made when we, the parties here, jointly agreed on a new housing tax system. And I wonder, because there was no other option but to create a new housing tax system. Does the rapporteur think that the problem lies in agreeing on a new housing tax system or abolishing the old one without having a new one instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133031	No, what I am trying to criticise here is actually the method that often gets us caught up in politics, namely to act quickly and run after things have to be implemented tomorrow. I can see that, of course, we are all together, including in the conciliation group, without a system and then a little in a ford, where we cannot do anything and have no means of action other than to assess according to some very old rules and so on. So it is neither a criticism of the fact that the old system was not allowed to run, nor a criticism of the fact that we had to act then, because of course we had to do so, but I just think that we can question the methods we sometimes use.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133110	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133111	I can understand the rapporteur's concern. Because what I think the rapporteur is trying to say is what kind of decision-making processes we have and whether we are aware of the system risks if we start something. And it has clearly been shown that we have not known what risks were involved; we have not known how big a project it was. At the same time, however, I hope that the rapporteur agrees with me that the only option is to implement this. Because there is no turning back, that is, there is no alternative to change. Personally, I believe that the problem arose when a system was removed without having an alternative. And then we are struggling to get a new system now and are facing a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133152	I am simply so infinitely happy that in this context the Left and Radicals are in the same boat. Because we must have sailed it here in port, just as the rapporteur says, and we are biting ourselves, and the reports we are getting about the progress of this process are, of course, also that we are relatively close to being in port. The first assessments have also been drove out, and there have been little complaints about them. Now it may be that there are some harder rounds in round two, round three and round four etc., and then we have to take it there. But it's really, really gratifying that we're in this together and that we're sticking to the process we're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133222	Thank you to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten-De Rød-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133230	This bill is part of the housing tax agreements that Enhedslisten is not part of. And so the reason why we are not included in the agreements in the area of housing tax is that some huge tax rebates have been given to homeowners. And that means that the housing market becomes a generator to create inequality, both between those who have real estate and those who do not, but also between country and city. We hear everything, too many stories that people can earn millions by selling their homes completely tax-free, and that also means that housing prices and the housing market are helping to run away and really explode, especially in cities. In this way, we believe that in relation to the whole regulation of this area, future generations and our society are doing a pretty big disservice by letting things run off like this. After all, it is both the high interest rate rebate, but also our housing tax, which is a problem. In our view, in the Enhedslisten, the housing tax system is not progressive enough in relation to housing gains, and unfortunately, this new tax system, which has unfortunately been postponed to 2024, will not be sufficiently progressive to seriously reduce the mechanisms of the housing market's inequality-building mechanisms. In the Enhedslisten we think that the dwelling should be a place where we can live and have a good time, but it should not be an investment object. And that is why we are not included in the housing agreements, and that is why we cannot support that adaptation here either, because we simply do not think it is enough. Then we would also like to point out that the draft law has been criticised in the hearings for the fact that it is very, very complex and that there are huge numbers of exceptions and special rules that make it very complicated to maneuver in it, and there are others who have said that too. And it is quite a problem in our eyes if you end up in a situation where both the Assessment Board and the citizens will have a lot, very difficult to find out about this system and the assessments that lie behind it. And it may also be a danger to confidence in the tax system. In relation to this, we can say that we have seen this week that there has been quite a lot of criticism from the accountants of the state in relation to the new property valuation system. And we have also noted that the tax minister has indicated that there should have been some major progress in the system. We would certainly hope that this will be the case on the part of the Enhedslisten. We hope we will not see a new, very large IT scandal in the field of the state, but we can be quite concerned about where this is going. Thank you for the floor and that will be a no from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133532	You're welcome. There are no brief comments on Enhedslisten. Then we move on to the Conservative People's Party, and that's Mr. President. Rasmus Jarlov, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133545	We're going to vote in favour of the bill. It is complicated matter that we are dealing with, but Conservatives are part of an agreement that we are implementing with the bill. That is why we must, of course, vote in favour. I would say that I actually very much agree with much of the criticism of the draft law raised in the consultation round, both in relation to cover tax and in relation to property assessments. Of course, I can very well recognise the criticism that some people are saying that it is uncertain what the cover tax is going to be. And others argue that it is unreasonable that there is such a wide margin so that you cannot complain if you have wrong estimates as long as it is not more than 20 percent wrong, which, after all, can be quite a lot of money in relation to a housing after property taxes. And I can easily follow that criticism, and there was another criticism that I can follow in the hearings that have been made. The problem is that I do not really think we have been presented with any alternatives. Well, what are we gonna do? Should we throw it all on the floor and then have no property valuation system and not get any answers on what we are doing with the cover tax here in the coming years? It is a difficult situation to act in as a member of parliament, I think, and it is of course up to the tax minister, who is sitting now, and former tax ministers, to ensure that those projects are managed and that they get back on track. It hasn't been managed very well any of it. There have been a great many delays and we are now facing some problems because we have to rectify the fact that we do not follow the project plans originally laid down without pointing the finger at either one or the other. Conservatives also stand by inheritance and debt in relation to our time in government and everything that has happened in the past. But it is very difficult to find good solutions to the mess we face in relation to taxes and the big IT projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133753	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133800	Thank you. After all, I am completely uplifted by all the good contributions from my colleagues on this system that is being worked on. I think that's what you call a mess shop in English. New citizens were not in the Folketing when this agreement was concluded, and therefore one can say: Well it would have been much better if we had been there. However, I must also acknowledge that there are perhaps some basic structural problems that people are struggling with across parties, regardless of what it is in this area, so I think that should also be recognised. In relation to this specific bill, I would say that, if you look at the consultation answer from the Danish Industry, there is in fact a proposal for what else you could have done in relation to what you are going to do here. Immediately, as I see it, it looks like a better solution to do it instead of • and I would recommend that you do so. One of the reasons why we may not be voting for this is that you choose not to implement it. So if there is such an increase and an uncertainty in it and that one could avoid it by going that way instead, I would prefer it to be done. So that's probably why we're going to vote no to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133912	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. Then I would like to know whether anyone wants to speak for the Liberal Alliance, the Free Greens or the Christian Democrats. That is not the case, and then we go to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125133927	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for your support for this proposal. I would also like to start by thanking the conciliation parties for the very constructive dialogue that has taken place, both on the legislative proposal and on property in general. This is an area for which we have a great responsibility across government shifts, and it is well-known that there have been massive challenges in the area of property for a long time. That is why both the current government and also the previous government have been bound by a task of developing and, above all, improving assessments, thereby also helping to secure the basis for a new tax system. I am, frankly, very pleased that this is a task which has a broad majority in the Folketing behind it, and I think that is extremely important, and it is therefore good that we have had the constructive dialogue that we have had on it. We are in many ways and fortunately for it a better place today than we have been in the past. We have just issued the first part of the new property assessments, and we can so little see the next broadcast on the other side of the turn of the year. With this bill, we are taking another step towards the restoration of the property area and, above all, an important step in the implementation of the common housing tax settlement that we made, which is back to 2017. The proposal in the draft law here is to set new municipal-specific coverage tax promiller. As you know, it is the municipality that collects the coverage fee, and in 2021 37 municipalities are charged the coverage fee. It follows from the 2017 housing tax settlement and the 2020 compensation agreement, which we also made jointly, that the total revenue from the coverage tax in 2022 shall correspond to the revenue in 2014 adjusted for changes in rates as from 2017. In other words, this means that it has been agreed that the revenue from the cover tax in each municipality will increase by approx. 37 per cent. in 2022 compared to 2021. The increase must of course be seen in the context of the fact that the tax base has been frozen since 2012. The bill then translates this part of the agreements in the housing sector. It is important to stress that the draft law does not change the fact that municipal councils can choose to lower the incentives in the coming years, and three municipalities have also decided to do so, three municipalities have decided to abolish the coverage tax as early as 2022. It also follows from the agreements in the housing sector that there is a ceiling on the municipal cover tax promills, so that they cannot be increased in the years from 2021 to 2028, and that principle, of course, is also continued with this bill. The municipalities which do not currently levy the coverage tax will still not be able to introduce the coverage tax until 2029. In 2022, the new property assessments constitute the tax base for the first time for the coverage tax. However, the new business assessments have not yet been issued and, as I said, as has been the case and until that happens, the cover tax will be levied provisionally. This means that once the new business assessments have been issued, there will be a recalculation of the coverage tax. The provisional collection is then based on assessments in the old assessment system, i.e. typically an assessment from 2012. There is a degree of uncertainty in collecting the cover tax provisionally and, in order to safeguard companies against sudden changes, it is therefore proposed that an increase limit be introduced for the provisional collection so that companies can pay a maximum of 30%. more than what they did in 2021. At the same time, it is also proposed to introduce a floor limit so that companies are charged at least the same as they paid in 2021. If a municipality has then decided to reduce the coverage tax, it will also have to be reflected in the provisional collection and therefore both the increase limit and the bottom limit will be reduced if the measure is also reduced. Together, therefore, the proposed rules guarantee companies as much as possible against large post-clearance collections. It is also proposed to extend the parcel house rule, i.e.: the rule that a property sale is not to be taxed if it has earned a dwelling for the owner. Today, it is the case that if you subdivide a part of your property, you have to be taxed on the profit you get when you sell the land afterwards, but if a property owner asks for it but moves to a nursing home before the matter is settled with the municipality, the owner will not have to be taxed on any subsequent profits. This rule is now proposed to be extended, so that a property owner who has asked for reinforcement but dies before the grubbing-up proceedings have been concluded should not be taxed on profits either. It is also proposed that the conditions for ordinary and extraordinary resumption be harmonized. The margin of discretion, as we know it, of plus/minus 20%, which already applies today to the handling of a complaint by means of an application for revision of an assessment, is extended to ordinary reopening and re-opening of a complaint. This means that the bill, and this was one of the points raised by the Danish People's Party, provides the same opportunity to change an assessment, regardless of whether the property owner asks to be reinstated at first instance or complaints to the appeal body. That's the point here. In order to ensure the best possible administrative basis for the tax administration, which has all this, so that doubts about the rules can, of course, be avoided as far as possible, it is proposed, as has also been suggested, a number of minor adjustments and clarifications concerning the new assessments. In conclusion, I would just like to thank you once again for your good cooperation in our conciliation circle. As I started by saying, this is another important step towards the full implementation of the 2017 housing tax settlement, and I look forward to examining the bill, and I am quite sure that if the committee so wishes, we would be very happy to contribute to further technical reviews of the bill that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm requested. There is no doubt that these are complicated matters we are dealing with here, but this is the implementation of the joint agreement from 2017. It is technical, it is complicated and we would very much like to do what we can to ensure that it is done on as well-informed a basis as possible. So we'll be there if you ask. Those were the words, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125134703	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments on this proposal, at least not on the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125134723	The debate is open. I particularly welcome Mr. Brian Bressendorff, who gives his first speech in the Folketing. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125134754	Thank you for the floor, President. The draft law we are discussing here is an important contribution to public health in Denmark. Some of you may have seen the small promotional film running from the Smoke-Free Future, and it is about the responsibility for Denmark having the world's youngest smoking age, namely an average smoking age of 16.4 years. In fact, it is one in four smokers in Denmark who start at age 14 or earlier. The small film ends by talking about responsibility, because quite rightly: we cannot place the blame, but we can shoulder the responsibility together. We all have a responsibility to get rid of this boring world championship title. But the market is also evolving, and it is no longer just classic tobacco products like the cigarette that create dependence on our young people. There is great creativity in supplementing and replacing traditional tobacco products, and we must shoulder our share of responsibility for not just moving young people's addiction from cigarette to cigarette, for example. the nicotine bag. With support across the Danish Parliament's parties, a number of different measures have already been taken to reduce tobacco consumption and the number of smokers. This is why a number of parties in the Danish Parliament have supported, for example: to increase tobacco taxes and introduce a tax on nicotine-containing liquids, just to mention some of it. However, we must do more to promote public health and to help young people not to become addicted to tobacco-like products. That is why I am very pleased that today we are dealing with a legislative proposal which continues and complements the important work. The price of a package of cigarettes must be clear. That is why we have already introduced a package of at least 20 cigarettes in order to ensure that producers cannot blur a tax increase by removing a few cigarettes from the package. But, of course, we should not have larger cigarette packs that affect the smokers' impulse to smoke more, and therefore there is regulation of the number of cigarettes in a package, so that in future we can only sell packages of 20. i. We must also ensure that we do not just push our young people from cigarette addiction to nicotine addiction, because nicotine is harmful and addictive, and that is why we have already introduced a tax on nicotine fluids for e-cigarettes. But, of course, we also need a tax on other nicotine products, so that we do not encourage the use of these particular nicotine products. The bill proposes a fee of 5.5 øre per nicotine product. mg of nicotine. It is a sensible tax that must balance between the fact that, on the one hand, we want fewer Danes to start using nicotine bags and, on the other hand, we do not get a tax that is so high that the cigarette is chosen as an alternative. However, the legislation here also provides for simplification for companies which make it easier to understand the legislation, namely the merger of excise duties on non-smoking tobacco. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that this bill represents an important contribution to strengthening public health in Denmark, and not least we see it as the next step taken to ensure that Danish young people do not start living with these addictive tobacco-like products. Because we must take action against products which we know are harmful and addictive. That is why I would just like to conclude by saying that the Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135142	Thank you, sir. Brian Bressendorff. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135149	Welcome to the Folketing and congratulations on a fine debut as rapporteur. I'm sure sir. Brian Bressendorff has prepared himself very carefully for his debut, so allow me to ask one simple question: what is the purpose of dictating that there must be exactly 20 cigarettes in a package? Because I don't understand. I understand the reason I can read that it is believed that consumers will not be misled by the fact that there are some who remove a number of cigarettes from the packages instead of raising prices. Are consumers so stupid that they can't figure it out? Or what is the purpose of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135236-2	I certainly do not think that consumers are stupid. But I think we also have to say that this must be very transparent when you stand out there. Our clear task here is to ensure that no more people start smoking. And so it has to be quite clear that when we make a tax increase from here, it must also be felt out there; then the young people are price conscious of this, so exactly the price of tobacco is actually one of the places where we can influence them. That is why I think it is quite logical that we should not open such a back door to perhaps remove some cigarettes from a package. That's one thing. The second is that we should not have more cigarettes in a package either, because we should not increase this impulse to smoke anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135325	Thank you for a fine answer. And now I want to do something that is really just about me saying what I think about this, because I will not be able to hold my rapporteur's speech because I have to be chairman of a consultation in the Defence Committee. And that is why we are going to ask for a split vote on this point because we believe that it is too much detailed regulation that it is said that there should be exactly 20 cigarettes in a package. People can see through it if they only get 17 or 18 cigarettes. And if you are worried that this price increase because of a higher tax does not fall into prices, then we can just increase the taxes further. I mean, it's gonna sit down if you put up the taxes. Nobody dumps cigarettes on the Danish market where they earn nothing. So we have quite a lot of faith that it's gonna work without us having to make such weird rules as this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135415-2	However, I do not think I would add much more than to say that I think it is sensible for us to ensure transparency in relation to the tax changes we are making from in here. I suppose that is usually something that Conservatives support, so I would hope that in the forthcoming work on the legislative proposal we can reach agreement on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135436	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135441	First of all, congratulations on the debut speech from here, and welcome to the Folketing. The rapporteur mentions several times that it is important for young people to smoke fewer cigarettes and that fewer people generally start smoking. So I would really like to ask the rapporteur whether he is aware that on page 28 of this bill it says that when a tax is introduced on nicotine-containing products, nicotine bags, it means that more cigarettes are being sold, that is to say the exact opposite of what is said to be the intention of the bill. A reply has been given from the Minister of Taxation, where he says "and it is of course with uncertainty that 8 million more cigarettes will be consumed, because you put a tax on nicotine bags, that is, because there is an incentive to smoke rather than use nicotine products, which are, after all, less harmful. So what is happening with this bill is exactly the opposite of what the rapporteur is arguing for is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135530	I now think that I made it very clear in my speech that there has been an attempt to lay a tax here, which must be a balance: on the one hand, we want to keep our young people from starting to have an addictive relationship with these nicotine bags, which we are currently seeing in a huge drive out there, and, on the other hand, it is clear that we should not impose a tax that is so high that we are pushing more people into a cigarette consumption. Every single time we talk about taxes in here, it's a difficult balance to strike, but I now think that's what I hear from the government, that we've hit a pretty good balance here, which ultimately ensures that fewer young people have an addictive relationship with some of these tobacco-like products; for it has to be seen broadly. Nicotine is also addictive. It's not just cigarettes we have to make sure they don't use.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135631	That is true, and I share the ambition that there will be fewer people depending on products, whether they are nicotine-containing products or what they are. But what you just say in the bill, and the minister has also answered it, is that this leads to more people smoking. Can we not agree that it is, after all, better to use nicotine bags than to smoke cigarettes? After all, there are significantly fewer harmful effects with the use of nicotine bags, and when the effect is, as you write yourself, that more people start smoking, it is probably a step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135701	That's one of them. That is why we have already increased tobacco taxes. It is precisely to ensure that fewer people start smoking. Now we just have to admit that what's happening right now is that these nicotine bags are in huge momentum out there. More and more people are using them. And I don't think we can take responsibility from in here for pushing our young people from one addict to another addiction. That is why we also need to legislate in relation to what is happening out there and in relation to the future that young people are looking into. So it is about new nicotine products that are being produced. Right now it's nicotine bags, tomorrow it might be something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135742	Thank you, sir. Brian Bressendorff for a clear and easy-to-understand maiden speech. Congratulations, and good luck with your work. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Kenneth Mikkelsen from the Left, Denmark Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125135756	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for bringing the full title to the party. In the Left, of course, we share the desire for better public health for the Danes, and I have looked forward to the discussion of this bill, because I can read that the highest objective, according to the draft law's comments, is precisely to strengthen public health in Denmark. The bill contains proposals to amend various taxes on tobacco and nicotine in order to encourage Danes to make healthier choices. There are proposals that cigarette packets should contain exactly 20 cigarettes, no fewer and no more, and there are proposals to introduce a tax on nicotine products, which in these years increasingly replace traditional tobacco products, and which I should perhaps mention here too, have been widely distributed among young people in particular. The Minister for Taxation himself says that the degree of innovation is high in this area. This therefore raises the natural question: should the new products be taxed? And if that is the case, how large should they be, and what principles should we apply? Then there is the whole question of why. Are we really interested in the health of our citizens, or is the consideration of the Treasury really the most important thing here? That was also a little my point when we dealt with the proposal on taxes on nicotine-containing liquids for e-cigarettes before the summer holidays. At that time, in my rapporteur's speech, I predicted that the next thing we were going to discuss in this Chamber was nicotine bags, and here we are. In the Left we always get worried when we are presented with a new tax. The introduction of duties on nicotine products in the current proposal would allegedly bring about a lasting immediate revenue of approx. 165 million kr. and revenue from reflows and behaviours of approx. 135 million kr. Nicotine is addictive and it is not something we associate with public health. However, I think it is also crucial that we distinguish between different products with nicotine, such as traditional tobacco products on the one hand, and non-smoking and tobacco-free nicotine products such as those we are talking about today, on the other. It has been documented that traditional tobacco smoking is harmful to health with typical effects such as lung cancer and cardiovascular diseases. These are critical diseases that are undeniably rhymes really badly with public health. As I understand it, the great sinner is the burning process. In other words, when you set a fire to a piece of tobacco, benzene and carbon monoxide occur which cause lung cancer, col and cardiovascular diseases. So the problem does not isolate itself into nicotine, as could be expected from the bill here. Nicotine is probably not carcinogenic in itself. While we have evidence of the harmful effects of tobacco smoking on health, the evidence is inadequate when it comes to the non-smoking nicotine products. However, there are indications that nicotine products are significantly less harmful than cigarettes. So when the Treasury writes that more people want to switch to traditional tobacco products as a result of the bill, it is surely not positive for public health. We are in a period when the number of smokers is falling year by year, and it is actually worrying to read that the government, even with open eyes, is putting forward a bill which probably means that more cigarettes are being smoked in Denmark. The Ministry of Taxation also estimates an increase in border trade. The draft law lays down a different level of taxation from that in Norway and Sweden, and in Norway and Sweden taxes are levied by weight, while the bill envisages allowing nicotine content to determine the tax. What is the reasonable explanation for this? There are also challenges with the deadline for the stamp-marking scheme. The industry considers that it is not realistic to have the production apparatus run in position by July 2022, and it is also estimated in the bill here that it has a cost to the industry of approx. 4 million kr. That's what industry itself says is shot right next to it. We are, of course, interested in hearing the Minister's response to this. The EU is stalling with a review of the tobacco taxation directive, and the Commission has proposed that this new directive should take into account new generations of modern products, in other words those we are talking about today. And bearing that in mind, what is the reason why the government is bringing this bill to us right now? If there is harmonisation from the European Union, we may find ourselves in a situation where we have to adapt to a new tax model shortly after the adoption of the one we are talking about today. In the Left, we agree with the intention of the bill to strengthen public health, but we are far from convinced that this is actually the effect that the bill will have. In other words, there are a number of knots that make it impossible for the Left to support the proposal as it stands here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125140312	You're welcome, sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125140323	There are several elements in the legislative proposal, and the first thing I would like to mention is the part about determining the number of cigarettes in a package. After all, we already have a rule that there must be no fewer than 20 cigarettes in it, and with this bill it is proposed that in future there should be no more than 20 cigarettes. But what kind of problem are you trying to solve? Well, if you go out and buy a pack of cigarettes today, there are 20 cigarettes in it. I actually smoke the most party smoking every once in a while and I haven't actually come across a pack of cigarettes where there are 25 or 32. in, or whatever the number may be. Well, there's no problem. Then there is the argument that it will be less price- transparency with larger packets of cigarettes when you raise the tax; then people can almost cheat on the weight. But, frankly, the companies are not so stupid that if you make a sharp price increase, they say: Now we have to cheat the consumer by putting in even more, so we pay more in the tax and the goods become even more expensive. Because then it will certainly become even more opaque. Then you have done yourself a disservice in relation to your competitors. Well, that doesn't make any sense. Then you say that you can, after all, reduce the risk of people smoking something more in larger packages. And again, I'm thinking, how stupid do you think people really are? Well, if people smoke 25 cigarettes a day today, I hope they don't, but some people do, they might be able to buy two packs. By the way, I think there are a lot of those who smoke a lot already buying a carton to keep in the drawer. And then I guess it doesn't matter if there's 25 or 32 pieces. in the packages, when they still buy enough to have lying at home. It is not because I have the strong position for or against this, but it is worthless regulation. That is to say, it does not move anything; it is to send a signal that now we are making it harder to buy cigarette packets that are over 20 pieces. i. But there are 20 pieces. In, so it's not moving anything. Let us not make regulations that do not move anything. And it's crazy when you try to say that this moves a lot. Then there is a tax on nicotine products, which can indeed be addictive, and that is not a good thing, but I think it should be seen in the context of starting to smoke instead. I know what I prefer, because it is far less harmful to health to use nicotine products, among others. nicotine bags than smoking a cigarette. I also believe that a great many people use it as a kind of rehab product when they want to step down on smoking because they are dependent on it. After all, it is better to use nicotine bags than to smoke harmful tobacco. And when you make a tax as high as this one, it actually happens the opposite of what you want. You actually turn to cigarettes and people start smoking more than they actually were. At the same time, a tax has been created which was higher than in our neighbouring countries, Norway and Sweden, so that it also has a cross-border effect. Is it less unhealthy because you buy it in your neighboring country? No, I guess it's the same thing, besides the fact that it's just gonna hurt the sales in our Danish stores. One reveals oneself on page 28 of the bill under financial consequences, where it is quite clear that this will cause some consumption to be moved from nicotine bags to cigarettes. One has given an answer to the Folketing that it will result in 8 million more cigarettes being sold than would if you didn't do it here. At the same time, we can remember that we actually had a similar legislative proposal with the same consequences that we should have a duty on nicotine fluids; there were 15 million cigarettes that would come in increased sales. So with the two proposals now being put forward by the government, the consumption of cigarettes has increased by 23 million pieces. At the same time as you go and sell out the door, you say: now we want to fight against people starting to smoke. Well, don't introduce these two laws. You have to be a little rigorous in what you go and sell to the Danes, what you introduce into the Folketing. Well, you write it yourself. It's not even something we're making up. It is written on page 28 that it will result in more people starting to smoke. Then you have to stop if you have an ambition to do the opposite. Another issue that we in the Danish People's Party at least care about is border trade. And as I said, the tax was higher than in Norway and Sweden. There are figures showing that 12.5%. of the market that is today for nicotine bags, just bought in other countries, and I guess that's not gonna make it any better. On the contrary, it was better that it was in Danish stores where we can control it and perhaps find out that there should be a maximum. limit the amount of nicotine in these products. Moreover, there is no such thing, I can see that the producers want it, so you could look at that. So basically, we don't think this proposal makes much sense. Then there are the proceeds, which are of course something we are interested in, because when there are tax increases, one could at least have lowered the tax in some other places. That is not what has been proposed here, so if we were finally to do something, we would be able to lower the tax on beer or on ice, or indeed the tax on cigarette paper. Surely it is not cigarette paper that is unhealthy; it is the tobacco that has to be taxed, not the cigarette paper. At least you could get rid of it. It doesn't really generate any revenue and doesn't give anything but a lot of trouble out there. So with the words I have said here, it is probably not so surprising that the Danish People's Party cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125140818	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Carl Valentin. And I don't know if the colleagues noticed that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær just wiped off his desk. It is a very good idea for us to get used to the fact that the infection rate is now rising again and then we take a little more account of each other. Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125140842	Thank you. I'll keep that in mind. This is not an area that I debate very often as a tax rapporteur, as we usually let our health rapporteur take such cases here. However, since we tax rapporteurs are often the ones who have to deal with something that some others have been negotiating, I would rather get involved in it. The market for nicotine products is not a market that in itself attracts a great many customers into the shop. It exists most seriously because of the market for smoking. Because people are looking for an alternative to harmful cigarettes, products are constantly emerging where a new way of incorporating nicotine has been found. The problem is that nicotine products are not healthy. So to speak, they're just less unhealthy. However, nicotine products still have harmful consequences for health, and they are still enormously addictive. Exactly why my own party, together with the government, the supporting parties and the alternative, introduced a tax on nicotine-containing liquid for e-cigarettes under the 2020 Finance Act. But it has never been intended that it should lead the nicotine industry to find other creative ways of getting people to consume nicotine, and therefore we are changing the law now so that it includes all nicotine products. In the same re-birth, we will then have to provide that a cigarette pack must contain neither more nor less than 20 cigarettes. This has been part of the debate and it ensures better price transparency on cigarettes than before. Then there is a little talk from up here that it doesn't really make any sense, because nobody today has more than 20 cigarettes in the packages, but I still think it makes sense to introduce, because it creates a framework that ensures that no companies can get a clever idea with a new initiative with some larger packages that might lure more customers into the shop. This may mean a change in behavior, which is why I think we might as well set a firm framework right away. Moreover, it does not really bother anyone, since no one is doing it today. So I think it makes sense, as the general purpose of this legislation is to ensure that as few as possible are lured into addiction. Just a comment on that. In addition to the two rights of such substantive legislative changes, we also note in the SF some more technical legislative changes in the field of nicotine. At the same time, some minor adjustments are also being made to the distance selling law, and the draft law also envisages making some minor impact changes in the VAT area due to the EU's temporary corona aid packages. In the SF we have no objections to the more technical legislative changes. I can also inform you that the SF is supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141123	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no brief comments. Carl Valentin, I'd better drink off). Yeah, that would be great. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141142	Thank you very much, President. I can be very sorry that in our party we have no subtitle on. It would have been a pleasure. That fg. President Yes, we must think of one). Yeah, we gotta do that. In fact, I think it is a great pleasure to hear the various rapporteur's speeches today, and as a real radical I am sitting down there and having the feeling that both when I hear the maiden speech by the Socialist rapporteur and when I hear the excellently worked-out speech by the Left, I find that I am completely, 100% in agreement with both parties. And what is happening to a radical? Then you don't know that now, of course, I know where we're gonna get on this, because there I'm gonna be more over there in the Social Democratic camp. But whatever the case, it should not be a secret that for the Radical Left health policy is at the top of the list of priorities here, because I do think that the field between the two rapporteurs reflects the dilemmas and the problems or challenges of this draft law very, very well. After all, there are a large number of answers from the Minister to the work on this bill, which quite rightly draws attention to the fact that we are now getting more cross-border trade. One of the things that does not say, but which I have found out in other ways, is that today, on 25 different facebook pages, no matter how old you are, you can illegally buy both cigarettes and nicotine products in all kinds of shades. So we have a large illegal market and the more we tighten the tax belt here, the more traffic we get both in the illegal market and certainly in the cross-border trade. So that's always the part about finding the balance. That being said, when we were discussing the cigarette tax, we were prepared to raise the tax in the Radical Left to DKK 90. Perhaps it would have been a little difficult to defend when we had done the tax machining of it when we looked at it as a tax rapporteur. But for a health rapporteur and for a party that is very concerned about health policy, that is exactly the way we should go. That is why I actually see even though we meet again and again in this Chamber and clean up after the tobacco producers' innovative approach to the market and to their battle for market shares • that we are always on such a reactive backside with everything. And even if we do it over and over again, it actually makes sense for us, because we think that in this particular area, it is perfectly okay to be thoroughly regulating, even down to the level where we decide exactly how many cigarettes should be in a package • no more and no less. So there is no dear mother from the Radical Left. We are voting in favour of this proposal, although I have to say to the rapporteur of the Left that we look forward very much to seeing the answers to the questions put by the Left in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141441	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141447	Thank you. The rapporteur says that the health aspect is the most important for the Radical Left. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether this bill improves or worsens health in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141502	For us, there is a strong signal value in saying to Danish young people and to Danes that we want to regulate this area, because smoking is also one of the heaviest items we have when we look beyond what it is for some expenses we have on, for example. Health. So for us, as the rapporteur knows, it is very many times in politics that it is also a very important task for us politicians to send out a signal, even if we go into it with open eyes and know very well that we are pushing these consumers around on different groups of products.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141545	That was a long answer, but the rapporteur did not answer what I asked. Does this bill regret health or improve health? It's pretty simple: either it does, or it doesn't. There are 8 million extra cigarettes here. So, in my opinion, it worsens health out there and thus does not improve health. That is why I am surprised when Radicals say that the health aspect is the most important to them, but if that is what is most important, then we should not support a proposal which exacerbates health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141620	The rapporteur himself will now come to the conclusion of what the rapporteur thinks, but I disagree. This improves health in order to respond very briefly to it, but I actually tried to identify the problem in it, because we fully recognise that we are also pushing around with some consumers that we are sending in the arms of cigarettes, as was also answered in one of the questions being asked here. But when we get to the end of this, when we work on it politically over and over again, we also signal to the people: we think you should stop smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141650	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141654	This is very much in line with the previous questioner's question, because if the health policy watchdogs the highest and they themselves write in the bill that this leads to more smokers and can we not agree that it is, after all, significantly better that you use nicotine bags than that you smoke? I agree that we would like them not to use either, but there really is a huge leap away from taking a nicotine bag to smoke, because it is much more harmful to health; it is carcinogenic and all sorts of other things, so if that is the crucial argument, then is the question whether the wrong level has not been set, that is to say the tax should not be lower? Could it not be something Radical might consider going to the government that then perhaps the tax should not be so high, because it precisely provides border trade, illegal trade, as the rapporteur said? Have you found the right balance in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141739	Now the questioner actually hits one of the things I didn't say, and that's the rate. In fact, it could be very interesting in committee to try to find out whether we have struck the right balance or whether we have actually pushed too much and get more border trade and other illegal trade here. So I actually think that could be really interesting to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141800	Thank you for that answer. After all, I think that is positive, because then we can at least reduce the harmful effects of more cross-border trade, illegal trade, and perhaps there are fewer, and hopefully no, people who are being pushed into cigarette consumption. Because we can surely agree that it is better, after all, to use nicotine bags than to smoke 20 cigarettes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141819	Well, what we're chasing in the Radical Left is nicotine, and it's absolutely right that you get it down in the form of smoke in your lungs, something happens other than when you get it in your blood through the mucous membranes. However, in relation to the exact health differences, there are some other things that happen, and it may be oral or throat cancer, etc., that are linked to nicotine bags, so I am not necessarily sure that one is more healthy or better than the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141847	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten • De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125141904	Thank you for that, President. After all, we have already been relatively far-reaching in the debate, and I would like to start by saying that Enhedslisten will be supporting this bill. There are, of course, a number of different elements in this, and the central point here is that it is based on the agreement that was made in order to prevent an increase in the smoking of children and young people, by rolling tax increases in addition to nicotine products and smoke-free tobacco. And I think that is generally positive. I should also like to say something, because I have now heard in this debate that it should be possible to say from a health point of view that this would be problematic because it shifts consumption. I would almost say there: on the contrary. For we must constantly focus on the tobacco industry, which is extremely inventive and creative when it comes to luring young people into an addictive relationship. There we have to constantly regulate, even in relation to taxes, and it cannot be denied at all that this will hardly be the last increase in taxation we will see. But what is at the heart of health care is that non-smoking tobacco and nicotine products also help to keep children and young people in an addictive relationship, because nicotine is one of the most addictive substances we know, and therefore it is absolutely essential to react to it. I would also like to stress that when we talk about the risk of cancer, it is also well documented that if you look generally at nicotine products and smoke-free tobacco, there is an increased risk compared to oral and esophageal cancer and pancreatic cancer. So there's also a health risk in relation to these products. That is why it is also essential that we now intervene in relation to it. And that is why I would like to announce now that, in the course of the committee procedure, we will try to identify an even higher level of duty for nicotine bags, for example. at the level of the cigarette price or at a price of about DKK 60. per can, could be expected to prevent nicotine dependence among children and adolescents. With regard to the proposal to set a ceiling or a limit, in relation to how many cigarettes there may be in a package, that is to say to set it at 20 pieces, I think that is quite reasonable because it offers greater transparency and transparency in relation to pricing. For there we have already seen how the tobacco industry has again shown great creativity and inventiveness when it comes to circumventing the tax increases imposed on cigarettes. And it cannot be denied that we have to impose additional charges, because it is obvious to everyone that it is so profitable to create addiction to nicotine and tobacco in children and young people that it has been worthwhile for the tobacco industry itself to eat the tax increases and then still maintain low prices. But that only shows that there is room for further increases in taxes. In the course of the committee procedure, we would also like to ask how to regulate the number of nicotine bags that may be available per year. can, could contribute to the prevention of nicotine dependence in children and young people, and also whether regulation of how much nicotine each bag may contain could contribute to the prevention of nicotine dependence. However, these are some issues which we will take forward to committee and, moreover, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125142248	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no brief comments on Enhedslisten. Then we go to the Conservatives who do not want to use the right of speech. Then we'll go over to mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125142307	Before I came to parliament, I was one of the three people in Denmark who actually watched Parliament's TV, and it was sometimes such a fun experience, and I thought: No, it just can't be. It cannot be that they sit in the Chamber with the country's finest platform and have to make decisions, important decisions, and I sometimes thought it might not be right that that was what was being discussed. That simply cannot be right. It cannot be right that that is what they need to spend their time on. I got such a flashback for it now that I have to stand here and debate whether there should be exactly 20 cigarettes in a cigarette pack. There must not be 19 Uha, it is dangerous; it goes completely wrong, the citizens cannot find out. There can't be 21 No, God help me, whether the Folketing here today will not decide that it should be retailed, that there should be exactly 20 cigarettes, neither more nor less, in a pack of cigarettes. That's what you think you want to impose on the Danes out there because you know best in here. I predict that there will soon be a demand for how many grubs there will be in Matador Mix. I guess that's the next way we're going down. This is something that should simply be left out of Parliament's hands. It's talking incredibly down to the citizens. And then you stand and say that we do it for public health and everything else. That's not true. This proposal creates more people who smoke. Eight million more cigarettes! And then it will be said that it is about public health. You have to believe that the Danes, who are out there, cannot see through it. One must think that they are thinking: okay, 8 million cigarettes and increased cross-border trade. Yes, yes, but they are talking about the good intentions of public health. But once again, you shoot far, far away, and we will not support this at all in the New Citizens' Party. It is a terrible way of talking down to the citizens out there that you will decide that there should be exactly 20 cigarettes in a package, not 19, not 21. Come on! Just don't. Take my advice, just don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125142526	You're welcome. I want to give you information about the consumer. We usually have between 10,000 and 50,000 listeners, so you need to be careful when you speak up. Quite a lot of people are following the debates in the Folketing. It's not just three. No one else has wished to speak, as far as I can see, unless some wish to speak on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, the Free Greens or the Christian Democrats. That's what Mr. Maybe Lars Boje Mathisen? No, I suggest we go to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125142609	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you for another lively debate on smoking and how we ensure that fewer young people, for example, start smoking and also become addicted to related products. That is basically what the overall effort is about. I appreciate it every time we have this debate, because I think it is quite illustrative. We need a wide range of measures to help strengthen public health, and you can easily become popular on social media especially if you hit a single element and start drilling it out. But what one forgets to say is that, in other words, the responsibility and the ability to help strengthen public health, for example, and the overall objective of having fewer young people who become dependent on this type of product, are constantly being denied. It's easy to do. We are such people who, fortunately, have been united for a long time about the purpose of ensuring that we have strengthened public health in Denmark. That is why this bill must of course be seen in the context of the increase in tobacco taxes, the introduction of taxes on nicotine-containing liquids and the many other initiatives taken in the tobacco sector. This also applies to the adoption of the national action plan against children and young people's smoking, which has also been supported by a number of parliamentary parties. The aim of these measures is to reduce tobacco consumption and the number of smokers, especially among children and young people, and to prevent them from starting to smoke. The high tobacco taxes can lead to people moving towards tobacco-like products instead, and that is why, as I said last year, it was decided to introduce a tax on nicotine-containing liquids in order to prevent higher tobacco taxes leading to increased consumption of e-cigarettes. And this must be seen in the light of the fact that nicotine is addictive and harmful to health, and the tax then contributes to ensuring that fewer children and young people start using e-cigarettes. With this bill, we will take the next step and follow up and complement the initiatives already adopted. The draft law states that cigarettes alone may be sold in packages of 20. The price of a package of cigarettes will be the more transparent the way it has been promoted. To date, it has not been allowed to have fewer cigarettes than 20. in a package, and the purpose of this is to ensure that cigarette manufacturers, for example, do not. take one or two cigarettes out of a package so that smokers do not experience a tax increase that might cause them to consider whether to continue smoking when cigarettes become more expensive. It is therefore on the basis of the same considerations that it is now proposed that cigarettes alone should be sold in packages of 20. It aims to reduce the incentive to smoke more if you are facing larger packages. And they exist, and that is why the purpose of the draft law is to introduce a tax on nicotine-containing products, as has also been suggested. The government has a clear ambition that future generations should not only be smoke-free, but that they should also be nicotine-free. That is why it is important to put an end to the use of nicotine bags by young people. A new tax will help to ensure this. Nicotine is addictive, it is harmful to health, whatever form it takes. And, as we have seen, new nicotine products continue to emerge which can supplement or replace traditional tobacco products, but which are therefore not subject to excise duties because they do not contain tobacco. Each time we stand here, the conclusion of a great many rapporteurs is that the creativity of the industry behind these products is enormous, and that is the particular thing when new addictive nicotine products are to be developed. With the adoption of the tax on nicotine fluids for e-cigarettes, as I said, a step has already been taken in the right direction. The next natural step is that the other nicotine products are also taxed, so for example. These nicotine bags, which have been strongly mentioned in the media, are not becoming more attractive because of a low price. And that is why the government wants to impose taxes on nicotine products and that nicotine products are included in the same other forms of regulation that we made in connection with the amendment of the legislation on the tax on nicotine-containing liquids. Specifically, it is proposed to introduce a fee of 5.5 cents per annum. milligrams of nicotine. This means that the tax on the product increases with the levels of nicotine. This encourages consumers not to use nicotine products or at least to use nicotine products with a lower nicotine content. In other words, the draft law, which has also been promoted, combines two existing tax categories for non-smoking tobacco into a tax. This will result in simpler and more transparent legislation. In the future, companies will not have to distinguish between different tax categories which, moreover, are not considered to be a professional basis for maintaining them. At the same time, it is proposed that smoke-free tobacco should be subject to the same stricter regulation as nicotine products and nicotine-containing liquids. The stricter regulation proposed for these nicotine products and smoke-free tobacco consists in the imposition of stamp marks, stricter accounting and invoice requirements and stricter fines, as is the case for nicotine-containing liquids. The aim of making these improvements is also to improve the conditions for tax control by the tax administration. In addition, as the draft law also suggests, we are proposing to introduce a so-called clean market rule which prohibits the sale of nicotine-containing products and non-smoking tobacco without stamp marks three months after the stamp mark requirement has been introduced. The Clean Market rule must help to ensure that taxes are applied more quickly in prices and that we avoid a situation in which, long after the tax has been introduced, nicotine products and smoke-free tobacco can be found without stamp marks and therefore also without tax or with too low a tax. In conclusion, I would just like to say a few words about the level of the tax on nicotine products, which has not only filled a lot in today's debate, but also in the consultation responses. This is a balancing act, and I am happy to admit this when it comes to setting a level of taxation for a product. There are many considerations that are included and that need to be balanced. This is true, for example. The reduction in consumption and shifts to other products, as well as, of course, increased cross-border trade and illegal trade. It is for us who are involved in the tax area that we make, every time we make and discuss adjustments in either the upward or the downward direction of a tax or a tax. However, as I said, it is my view that, as I also heard in today's debate, most people can support the idea that the products that create dependence and which are harmful to health should be reduced, and that is the purpose of the tax that is now being introduced with this. As far as media coverage of these products is concerned, it is not because it has to be said that creativity is insignificant and also how products are used. It is very violent when you see the mention that has been of how young people have used it here, and there is much to argue that with this grip we can help limit their spread and can help to ensure that public health is strengthened overall. Thank you for the floor, President. And I would say that we would, of course, be happy to answer questions in committee if they so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143437	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143441	Thank you for the floor. The Minister of Taxation says on several occasions that this is being done in order to strengthen public health. I have not met any Danes who have thought it a good idea to do the opposite. So far, so good. We agree on that. With this proposal, however, the Minister himself has put forward the idea of increasing the consumption of cigarettes by 8 million units. Can the Minister just answer whether public health is being improved by the fact that the Danes smoke 8 million more cigarettes?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143515	As with so much else, I think you have to see this in a context. This is one element of an overall strengthened approach to products which create dependence, which is carcinogenic and which harm public health, and this tax is the right one. Now, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær referred to page 28 of the bill several times, and then I think it should be remembered to mention the other side of the coin, because it actually says on page 28 that with the introduction here of a tax on these products it is of course estimated to result in a decrease in domestic sales of nicotine bags. Is it good for public health? Yes, it is. Is it part of the weight and balance that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær must be included in his inventory of the total effort? Of course it does, and that is why I think that when we discuss this, we must of course consider how we are going to approach the debate, but as I started by saying, I am addressing it as a whole approach to having a common interest in public health and the dependence on these products. That is the purpose of the action plan which the vast majority of the parties who are sitting here today and who are present here today actually support.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143631	If you want to take it all with you from page 28, and it is true that it says that domestic trade will fall, then the tax minister forgot to say that it is because border trade will increase. And then it says that the consumption of cigarettes will increase, and I would almost like to put my head on the block, that smoking cigarettes is significantly more harmful to health than taking a nicotine bag. So, yes, the amount of nicotine bags is falling, but then people start smoking instead, and can we not agree that it must be significantly better that you have products with nicotine than it is to sit and get all sorts of tobacco and smoke into your lungs and such things that it is far more harmful to health? When we talk about public health, I guess it's better that people don't smoke 8 million cigarettes anymore. After all, this is going in the opposite direction to what the tax minister is saying is a good ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143720	No, overall, it does not, because what the questioner is forgetting is the other initiatives that are both in this bill and that have been implemented by a majority in the Danish Parliament in the past and against which the Danish People's Party was opposed, i.e. that the prices of cigarettes should rise and that the number in the packages, as is the case in this proposal, should be limited to 20. Why? That is because those who might be able to replace the nicotine bag with a cigarette might also be more motivated to buy a pack of cigarettes if they could get one with 26 or 28 in over 20. What is this all about? It is, then, that public health needs to be increased and dependence must be reduced. And why is it that we are discussing the question of whether there can only be 20 cigarettes in one package? I agree that one might ask why it is even necessary to discuss it, but that is because this industry is so extremely creative. They've seen an advantage in stuffing 26 or 28 in. Why do they do that? They don't, because they only want 26 or 28 cigarettes in a pack. They do because they want to sell more, and they want to sell more to the kids. They want to create more addiction so they can make more money. In other words, it is as simple as that, and that is what we are constantly up against, and that is why this is a proposal which, in my view, contributes to the strengthening of public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143837	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143842	Thank you. In his speech, the Minister used the phrase "and I have also noted that during the afternoon several rapporteurs have mentioned it: this should help to get fewer young people to start smoking. Does the Minister or the Ministry have any evidence that has been leaning on in relation to the fact that this tax will actually get fewer young people to start smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125143912	It is, as is always the case with this type of charge, difficult to assess the externalities, i.e. how the environment affects the tax and behavior, how a tax affects our behaviour. You know that's hard when you're discussing these things. I believe that what is important is to be said here, and that is also what I said to Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Dennis Flydtkjær, is that of course there is a connection and you have to see the coherence of all the initiatives we are taking. There is, after all, a creativity which has emerged in an industry which has been able to see that they have been able to sell products which have been able to create a pleasant dependence in the eyes of goose-eyes on some, but which have not been subject to a tax because there was no tobacco in it. Is that a problem, or is that not a problem? I think this is a problem and that is why we are addressing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125144007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125144009	I do not quite know if that was an answer to my question, but we can delve into it a little more during the committee procedure. Because if you assume that this is going to make more young people stop smoking, it is because you recognise the premise that these nicotine bags are a gateway drug for cigarettes, and it has been discussed a great deal, including in the media over the last few weeks, to which the Minister also referred in his speech. And there's no evidence that it's a gateway drug. How much has the Ministry leaned on the experience that actually exists abroad, for example in Norway, when the bill was made here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211125144048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125144049	We are happy to respond to that in committee. I would say that I am very pleased with the general support of the Left for strengthening public health, and I also believe that when we listen to the discussions we have had in the past and where the Left has also supported the fact that we will be able to find each other here. Because there is no doubt that there can hardly be two opinions that nicotine is not healthy, and if you want to strengthen public health, you must keep as much away from nicotine as possible. And that's what we're doing with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125144122	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211125144142	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except to thank you all for today's work in the service of the people. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 26 November 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
