ParlaMint-DK_20210503100005	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Eva Flyvholm (EL) and Rosa Lund (EL): Hasteforskning nr. F 61 (Will the Minister explain how the Minister has come to the conclusion that the area around Damascus is safe to return to for Syrian citizens who have been temporarily resident in Denmark, and will the Government establish a dialogue and cooperation with the Assad regime to force Syrians in Denmark if they refuse to leave the country voluntarily?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. The Epidemics Committee has submitted: Report on the abolition of the legal requirement for the use of muzzles from 6 May 2021. 19), Report on the abolition of the legal requirement for the use of muzzles, with the exception of in public transport from 6 May 2021. 20), Report to open the fitness centres as from 6 May 2021. 21), Report on the abolition of restrictions on opening hours for bars and restaurants from 6 May 2021. 22), Report on opening nightlife from 6 May 2021. 23), Report on allowing spectators to attend sports events other than the super league, e.g. speedway, via the superliga scheme from 6 May 2021. 24) and the report on allowing full attendance at sports events from 6 May 2021. 25). The reports will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503100126	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503100254	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503100311	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution, which obliges the government to table a legislative proposal which abolishes the possibility of parole of life-time sentenced people. Fortunately, in Denmark there are only a few life sentences, but the worst criminals in our society also deserve the harshest punishment and that their contact with the outside world is limited as far as possible. This is among other things. That is why the government recently chose to support the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Notenboom on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). B 55, to limit the rights of life-time sentenced persons. It is important to make it clear that a life sentence is a life sentence condemned to life, but not a claim to parole. Parole may not be granted until the life sentence has served 12 years in prison. The original idea behind the introduction of the possibility of parole of life-time sentenced persons was to find a balanced solution between the questions of legal certainty raised by the timeless life-time sentence. In each case, the department must assess whether it is justifiable to parole the sentenced person; parole must not be inadvisable. This assessment shows, among other things, that: At the risk of the convicted person committing new crimes, and at the risk of the convicted person committing new crimes, one looks at the danger of the convicted person. In practice, it is also a requirement that the life-time sentenced person has carried out a long-term and trouble-free process of integration. So parole for life sentence is not something that just happens automatically. For me, therefore, it is also an important question how long life sentences are actually in prison. The Department of Investigation has examined it and reported that the average time of service for life sentencees is approx. 17 years. In addition, the Department of Police has reported that there are currently 30 life sentences in the criminal services and that six of the prisoners of life have served more than 20 years. In practice, therefore, life sentences are often in prison for much longer than 12 years, and there is no upper limit to how long a life sentence can be served before parole takes place. Some life sentences end up spending decades behind bars, and if life sentences end up being paroled, it is because, among other things, the authorities. have considered that they are not dangerous and that they will not commit any new crime. At the same time, we must not forget that our international commitments set limits in this area. A life sentence has the right to test whether the person concerned should continue to be imprisoned after he has served for many years. So let me sum up, life sentence is a life sentence. Life sentencees are not entitled to parole, and it is important that they are not paroled too soon. Parole may not be granted until the life sentence has served 12 years. There must be reasonableness in the system and we must never forget the concern for the victims and their relatives. That is why it is vital for the government to spend a long time in prison for life sentences, and in practice life sentences are in prison for many years. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Once again, thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for highlighting an important issue, and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503100653	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503100700	I thank you for your kind words on the proposal; that is very polite of the Minister. But it would have been very good if the government were to support the proposal too, because what we are concerned with here is that there are considerable penalties in Denmark, and when the victims find that you can apply for parole after 12 years as a life sentence, then it gives rise to some boring thoughts, and I think that the minister is in agreement with the victims and families of the victims who are part of that. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister does not understand that the family of those who have been killed is in a very difficult situation when one hears that a life sentence, which was actually thought to have been a life sentence, is seeking parole. This does not happen once, but maybe several times, when it comes up in the media, that now it and it want to go out again and so on. etc. It's very stressful. Can the Minister not understand that there is a problem here that we need to address? Otherwise there is a problem with the right of conscience among the families who have killed among them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503100813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503100815	Yeah, and that's also why the starting point is that the life sentence is And I think we should stick to that in a study that was made for the period from 1985 to 2018 it turned out that in practice you are not on parole after 12 years. On average, approx. 17 years in prison before being paroled, and by the way, no further parole has been granted since the end of the investigation, i.e. in 2018. So all the other things being equal, you have to think that the average time has increased a little. So it is an average of 17 years before parole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503100909	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503100911	Yeah, that's right. But it can be said that 16 to 17 years is not long for a person who has been sentenced to life because he has committed something as brilliant or crazy as he has done. That is why I would like to ask again: will the government not at all look at the problem that it actually often comes up, that life sentences seek parole and actually get it, so that on average you get out after 17 years, and some come out already after 12 years? Is that really not a problem, does the government think that we are seeing that there are families who have to see that a parole trial is going on again? And then they can be right or not, but the fact that you get out so early after committing something as crazy as for example. What Peter Madsen or Peter Lundin have done is unacceptable to us in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101009	But I think there is a significant difference between whether you have the opportunity to apply to get out and whether you actually get out. And I think it's worth noting that no parole has been given to life sentences since 2018. So whatever you can search, it's not like it's a ticket to get out. And, as I said, during the period before, there was an average prison time of approx. 17 years before you got paroled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101036	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. May I ask the Minister to prepare for the next rapporteur? Thank you very much. For now the rapporteur begins. The first party is the Social Democratic Party, and the rapporteur is Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101100	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate, which is indeed also a matter of principle, in relation to the people who commit the most abominable and scary crimes in this society and thus get the hardest sentences, namely life sentences. Is it then our expectation as citizens that they will actually be sitting there for the rest of their days until the day they are carried out or as stated in the remarks; until, exceptionally, they are so ill or there is something else that allows them to be on parole? And there we have to say that the people who are also mentioned in the proposal are some who are known in public for committing some very, very scary crimes and who are therefore also given the hardest penalties and that is a small group of people. So you're gonna give them the opportunity to get a parole? That is what we are really debating. Is that a right today? No, it's not. It's a possibility, if that's how you're judged to be fit to be on parole. And the aptitude assessment or the assessment that the Minister of Justice has also mentioned is an assessment of whether there is a risk of these people committing new crimes if they are on parole. And I kind of agree that it would be fair to discuss it, that is, if there was a picture that people who got life sentences came out after 12 years. However, as the Minister for Justice has also said, that is not the case. So, the average is 16-17 years and that is based on the authorities' assessment. So I think that some of what we are also discussing here is whether we are confident that the authorities can make an assessment of these people. So there is both the principle of whether one should have the possibility of parole, if one is judged to have changed to a sufficient degree, so that one does not pose a safety risk. In principle, I think we should stick to that. Then we must have confidence in the authorities' assessment. Then it is clear that there is also consideration for the relatives and the survivors, which is also what Mr. Peter Skaarup asks. In my right-of-law consciousness, if you have served a sentence of 17-18-20 years, then I myself will see it as a quite long sentence. But I actually think that we have a system today that works. And I and the Social Democrats are not in favour of us completely removing that possibility, and that is not a right, but an opportunity. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101342	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is for Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101344	I understand, then, that the Socialists will not support the proposal and will not remove the opportunity that parole is for life imprisonment. We can then agree or disagree on that. I disagree we want it removed. If you had to work on this, that is, if there was a basis for trying to find a majority in order to tighten things up after all, you could look at the rule that you can apply every two years. I mean, if you get rejected after 12 years on parole, if you're doomed to life, you can search again for 14, then you can search again for 16, etc., if you still get rejected. It is to me to see some of the things that violate the legal awareness of many people, because they see lawyers, journalists and so on. writes and reports that he or she would like to be on parole, that is, that he or she is ripping up the wounds that are among the family of the killed or more killed, if that is the case. That is why I would like to know whether the Socialists want to come in and look at whether we should be able to apply every two years or whether we should perhaps be able, for example, to do so. in some cases should not be allowed to apply at all and in other cases should be allowed to apply for example. every five years or ten years. For again, the torment is after all less, if it is with far greater distance, that one can be allowed to apply for parole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101510	It is a relatively small group we are talking about here and what practice is today, I must confess, my own knowledge is not enough. I'm thinking that's one of the things we can try to get a little smarter on. I will not give an undertaking to support a model in which we push it, but I would like to give an undertaking that we can become wiser together in dealing with it here in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101530	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101553	Thank you for that, President. As you know, the proposal here is to remove the possibility of parole for life sentences. As it is today, there is at least a theoretical possibility of parole after 12 years in prison and, as we have heard before, it must be based on an assessment of whether the convicted person is a danger and whether he will be able to live without crime and thus not endanger the rest of society outside the prison walls. When the 12 years are more theoretical, it is because the average is somewhere between 16 and 17 years in Denmark, compared to how long you actually serve for these life sentences. For the worst of them, fortunately, it is also significantly longer. On 5 March this year, it was 20 years since Peter Lundin was sentenced to life imprisonment, and I do not think so, nor do many people imagine that he is on his way to freedom just now. In recent Danish legal history, Seth Sethsen is the person who has spent the longest time in prison, so far it is 34 years, and he is serving for his bestial predatory murder. It's longer than I've ever lived. No. 2 on the list is Palle Sørensen and it was almost 33 years when he was released in 1998 at the age of 71 years. Those cases show to us in the Left that, at least in the vast majority of cases, the framework is present today to ensure that the most dangerous criminals, including those who are doomed to life, are not released too soon. But does this mean that the Danish People's Party has hit right next to the dial with this proposal, and that we can't discuss the terms of parole for life sentences? No, it doesn't. For Dansk Folkeparti actually has a point in that there is a need to discuss the framework for parole, so thank you to Dansk Folkeparti for making the proposal. For example: We in the Left are puzzled that ankle chains are very rarely used when some of the worst criminals are to be paroled. This is an element that we think should be looked at further. Is 12 years the right cut? It is also a discussion that we would very much like to take. That is why it is a relevant debate that the Danish People's Party is bringing up here today. I would also like to say that, as such, we would also like to discuss this whole aspect of how long a life sentence of this kind should generally be in prison, because it is important for us that the penalties for committing violent crime are tough and consistent. I also have to say that we have seen some examples in our legal system where hardcore criminals often get away with serial criminals. We have to address that from in here, because it is offensive to the sense of justice, and it is also completely out of respect for the victim and the victim's family when the penalties become too mild. So we are very happy to have the debate on parole, and we are also very happy to have the discussion on penalties for violent crimes in general, because this is a necessary debate, but we cannot support the proposal as it stands here today. But we look forward to the further reading of the committee, where we can discuss some of the elements here which we think are relevant. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for making the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101908	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101915	I got a little curious about what the rapporteur is saying here. The Left will not support the proposal, but believes that some of the points contained in the proposal need to be discussed. Could it then, for example. You're not allowed to apply for parole every two years? We basically believe that it should not be possible to do so at all if one is doomed to life, but one might well increase the number of years that go by before one can apply for parole if one is refused for the first time. For it is hard for the family of the victim that you experience time and time again that now looking for x person again, but may be refused. The whole case is ripped open every single time it happens. Could it, for example? be what the Left was prepared to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503101959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503102000	I can answer that very briefly: that seems to me to be an interesting discussion. It is something we are open to look at, i.e. whether these rules should be changed. Because the approach we have to who our legal system should be for is not intended for the criminal. It is for the victim and the victim's survivors or the victim's family who, of course, will have to have some degree of sense of justice, even if what has been lost can never be won back, for example. In murder cases. And there it may well be upsetting every two years to sit and fear that he or she will be paroled. So that is one of the elements we are very open to discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503102042	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503102102	This motion for a resolution cannot be supported, because it will lift the possibility of parole for the sentenced lives. And I consider that the rules we have already ensure a fine balance in relation to the possibility of being paroled and ensuring that people who are not at all fit to enter freedom remain behind bars. We can certainly see that Peter Lundin has been in prison for 20 years and has not yet come out. In the end, it is also a question of whether we believe that people can improve or whether we should lock them up forever. When the Committee on Legal Affairs was in Los Angeles and there I know that Mr. Peter Skaarup was with us, we saw that there are plenty of opportunities to deploy people forever: Three strikes, and you're out; 25 years in prison and everything else. And here the judiciary was at least aware that it was a criminal regime that had run out of control, and now it was no longer known how to return to something that made sense, because it was simply political suicide to move that way. I do not want us to go there in Denmark. We must have a system of penalties that is wise, that takes account of both the victims and that punishes the perpetrators, but of course also builds them up. This is where I think we should ask: what is the function of our prisons? Should they alone be a storage room for criminals so that they can rot, or should we also try to build people up so that they can get back into society? I'm gonna pick the last one. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party will make it possible for life to be understood as life without any possibility of annulment. And if you are sentenced to life, yes, you have no reason to behave properly within the walls. It can be seen as a small ray of light looking into you in the cell if you have an opportunity for parole. I wonder if the possibility of having the narrow window that it is to be able to get out is more motivating than the restriction of sitting inside. I think that is also worth sticking to, also for the sake of the prison officers, because they are the ones who are going to work with these people who, with the Danish People's Party's proposal, no longer want anything to lose and do not want any good reasons to behave properly. I feel like if it's not broken, don't fix it. Nowadays, there's just an opportunity for you to apply for parole as a life sentence. It's not safe to have it. There is a court that decides whether you can stay, and I think that is a sensible principle that we should stick to. In the SF, we believe more that we can build people who, for one reason or another, are in prison. Having said that, I find it difficult to see that someone like Peter Lundin is on parole, but it is not up to me to decide. I am actually quite sure that we have authorities that can assess in a very good way, and so far we have to see that he is at least behind bars for the time being. Then the proposal also means an additional cost of 22 million. kr. Every year, and right now, I think it would be better to use them to hire more prison officers, because there is certainly a great lack of them. So we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor. I should also like to welcome the Radicals and the Enhedslist, which unfortunately cannot be in this Chamber, and to say that they cannot, of course, support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503102438	Thank you. It is noted in relation to the other two parties. Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503102450	First of all, I would very much have liked to have discussed this with the Radicals and the Enhedslisten, but obviously I cannot do so because they do not have the opportunity or the time to be here in Parliament today. One might wonder, of course, that gradually nicely large parties cannot participate in a debate on it, but okay, then I can debate with SF and Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. I understand that SF will not support this proposal, but what one might consider, if SF could be involved in it, is to look at the fact that one can continue to seek parole, which means that families that are hard hit by the loss of one of their loved ones, experience that the media can write about the fact that now, after 12 years, x people who have committed crazy things want parole, and they are written side by side about whether it is now possible to do what the lawyer says etc. If the person receives such a refusal, you can apply again after 2 years. I think there is something there that is offensive to the right-wing conscience. Could SF share our view of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503102556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503102557	First of all, in defence of the radical rapporteur, I should like to say that he is flattered, and that is what delays him. And he should have greeted Mrs Rosa Lund, so this is just someone who cannot be in the Chamber. I think the other one will show up when the problem is solved. I understand the concern for the victims, and I also hope that they know that the system we have makes it possible to have a parole, and I also hope that they will see that the window is very, very narrow and that they will therefore take it easy. I think there is some legal certainty in applying for a parole, even if you do not get it, and after all something can happen in two years. So I will not deny that we have to look at it, but I also see some drawbacks to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503102658	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thus, I take a few leaps further down the list and get to the Conservative People's Party and Mr. Mads Andersen, who's ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503102718	Thank you, President. I just started counting down there, because I had to get my order together, and if it was my turn, and it was. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the proposal. The security of the population is a very important and central part of a good society. The same is true of respect and support for the victims and relatives who have been subjected to the most serious and terrible crimes. In the last few years, hard work has been done to increase the penalty for perilous crime. Especially for violent violence, gang crime and possession of weapons, a great deal has happened. By a large part of the agreements that have been made, the Conservative People's Party itself has been at the end of the table, and we are of course pleased with the cooperation with the parties that want to do the same. We are also pleased with the developments that have taken place in our legal system. So we're just gonna sit back and stop here? No, we must always develop and create more security for our people. We have also spoken before about other cases in this Chamber just in the weeks I have been here about punishment and whether the criminal framework is being used enough in various forms of serious crime. I also think that I have heard the government indicate that we should talk about looking at whether this is something we should have looked at as a single package, and we look forward to that. We could then adopt the Danish People's Party's proposal here. If you kill more people and go to prison, then the chance that you could do it again when you get out, who decided, and the best way we can avoid it as a society is by people staying in prison. We must remember that the most criminals in our country are here, so it is in this way, we believe, both sensible and fair to take all measures against them. We also note with great satisfaction that the proposers propose that exceptional cases be looked at, for example. in the case of serious illness and old age, where it is considered unthinkable that something new could happen. We would also like us to look into the fact that there is also a great difference between the life sentences and the crime they have committed, and that, for example, we have to look into it. Or you could look into these rules about when you can apply for parole. We would like to see this examined in committee. The Conservative People's Party is positive about the proposal and wants to take it down to committee and get some edges off. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503102929	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And Mrs Pernille Vermund, the next rapporteur, is on the verge of leaping forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503102955	In Denmark, extremely bestialous and brutal crimes have to be committed in order to get a life sentence. And a life sentence isn't always for life. A life sentence can already apply for parole after 12 years. In prison he has plenty of time to train, to train, even to date women outside the prison on behalf of taxpayers. Then may come out and continue life and, at worst, his crimes. Even if the life sentence is not paroleed after 12 years, every two years the families and relatives of the criminal's victims will have to sit with a knot in their stomach at the thought of whether it is this year, the criminal will be released. Thankfully, few people commit so bestial crimes that they are sentenced to a life sentence. But the few who do should at least spend time. Victims and their relatives deserve to be assured of that. We owe it to each other to ensure that. That is why New Citizens are supporting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503103105	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. I do not see a rapporteur in the Chamber from the Liberal Alliance, nor do I see the rapporteur for the Christian Democrats present in the Chamber. So it has already become the rapporteur of the proposers. Welcome to sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503103134	Thank you for a fine debate. And if I look down on the list of parties, I am a little surprised that neither the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten nor the Liberal Alliance, in so far as, is taking part in such a debate here. But they have to answer for that themselves. Regardless of that, I can see that the government and the Socialists are not really prepared to participate. One might like to discuss something I could not completely decode what was in what was said by the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur. But it goes without saying that we are going to abolish the possibility of parole for the life sentence, and if we cannot get a majority on it, then at least tighten it up so that we cannot continue to apply every two years and start a debate on the fact that now I have to be free, and that the lawyer says one thing, and the media writes the other. And that is something that very much violates the victims when it is the situation, and not least the families of the victims who have been injured are very uncomfortable with, I know that this debate is going up again and again. Then I would like to thank the Left, who would like to support some of the proposal, possibly, and Conservatives and New Citizens, who also support it. Whereas SF isn't really in on it, although you might be able to see if you can squeeze SF a little on your stomach. We'll see about that. We need to see how it develops. In any case, we are going to go for the fact that if we can tighten the conditions without getting through with the proposal, then we have to try it. The reason we want to do something about it is that life sentences in the real world should mean life. It goes without saying, it is in the word, and that is why it is called life imprisonment: it is life imprisonment. But that is just not the case today, because in the real world a life sentence is sentenced on average to 16-17 years in prison, so what we think is life is really, on average, 16-17 years in prison. And when that's the average, there's what more people have been talking about, some who sit for a long time, Palle Sørensen, for example, the quadruple police killer. He spent 32 years in prison, and then there are others who sit far below the 16-17 years. We just don't think that's good enough in the Danish People's Party. It's as simple as that. And the fact is that we actually have reasonable opportunities, good opportunities, to impose reasonable penalties on people. At the same time, however, we also need to punish people who are sentenced to life and who are so basically guilty of every law and right in the country in which they live, in other words, to punish it very hard so that they are not released again. And that is because you do not believe that there are any opportunities for improvement. In cold blood, another person has been killed or raped by a large number of people. Then you are also able to be in your right mind and serve the punishment that you have received and which is called life. Then you can look a little more at the rules and see if you can change some of the things that are today if you can't get through with a proposal like this. And it is clear that the Danish People's Party would like to take a look at the fact that you can apply again after 2 years if you are refused the release. That is to say, every two years there is a possibility today that the victims of the murderers' crime will go around uncertainly if perhaps the murderer of their child is actively seeking parole. I mean, while you're still walking around with all the emotions associated with what the family has been exposed to, for example. If you have lost your child, the whole debate will come up again in the media when a person seeks parole. As a matter of fact, some of these very spectacular cases, such as: The Peter Lundin case, the media are printing articles describing Lundin's application for this parole. And then when he has refused, we can read again about it: Yes, he has been refused, but he is looking for course again because he thinks he should be on parole. And frankly, it is not in anyone's interest for us to relive everything Peter Lundin has stood for when he applies for parole. So basically, I think it should be obvious that people like him should never be at large. It is simply too dangerous to let him or others out of prison. If we take the U-boat killer Peter Madsen, maybe in nine years, we'll have to find out if he can get parole now. Is there any chance of that, and what does the lawyer mean? And the papers will write about it, while journalists will go to Kim Wall's parents and hear what they think about this situation. And they will then also be able to read about the whole case again, and they get ripped up the wounds around their daughter's horrible last hours alive. And in the end, perhaps we can read that the submarine food has been refused, and two years later the mill will start again. Honestly, I believe that the victims and Denmark deserve to ensure that this traffic is stopped. For some acts is simply so violent that it must have such violent consequences as a life sentence is. And let me remind you again: Peter Lundin, convicted in the United States of killing his own mother, and here in Denmark of killing two children and their mother; the Amagerman, a murder, a murder, six rapes; the submarineman; James Smith, who was previously convicted of attempted murder, rape and attempted rape, and the last sentence was for three deaths of pensioners. Shall we hear again that now he's on his way out or wants to get out? I think we should be concerned in here about whether the system we set up is for the victims or whether it is for the criminals. I think it's for the victims, so that we make sure these people don't get back on the loose. And that is exactly why we are proposing that Denmark introduce a judgment where lifetime really means life. Just as it is today. All we have to do is take what we mean seriously. Life is supposed to be life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503103840	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503103857	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503103917	In connection with these motions for resolutions, it is often the Danish People's Party that has tabled them, and that means that I always get up on the platform after Mr. Peter Skaarup has spoken. I think that when I see us facing each other, we are equally tall, but when I come up here, the platform is so tall that I can hardly look out over it, so I think we should measure our back to the back and see if Mr. Peter Skaarup really is so much taller than I see it. Sometimes reality may well look different from what is the reality experienced, too, at one's own height. Enough about that. Killing is the ultimate crime, and it is, of course, even worse if it is a murder of a pregnant woman. What we then come into here is a discussion that we really had last week, namely whether we should have full cumulation or moderated cumulation when we determine crimes that are being sentenced at the same time. What the DF is proposing with the motion for a resolution is that, in the case of the killing of several people, there should be absolute cumulation, with penalties being imposed for each murder committed. After all, the Criminal Code Council has dealt with the question of sentencing and how it should be judged when there are more criminal conditions it can, for example. be here, they may also be other examples and what is assessed is that absolute cumulation will lead to clearly superfluous punishment and could not be expected to have any significant crime prevention effect. The starting point for what we have in Denmark and, incidentally, in the countries with which we normally compare ourselves is moderated cumulation, which takes the necessary proportionality into account and which, moreover, allows it to be flexibly assessed by the courts. Then it is to return to the motion for a resolution that we have just dealt with, so that the strictest sentence of the law, namely life imprisonment, can be sentenced in murder cases, and that means, as we have just said, that the sentenced person must remain in prison for the rest of his life and for an indefinite period of time, and that is, in principle, lifelong serving. We have just noted that in some cases parole is granted, and that is on average after 17 years. Nevertheless, even when the courts have to deal with a case involving the killing and killing of more people, it will be an aggravating circumstance. This will enable the courts to reach a life sentence. And then I guess you're where this proposal really wants to take us. So, on this basis, we cannot support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104220	Thank you, Minister. There is no wish for brief comments to be made to the Minister. Thank you for phoning off and preparing for the start of the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104245	Thank you. The Minister of Justice has put it very low, and I shall never set it up when he has been there, and we do not need to measure the back, because I really believe and have the feeling that I am a little lower than the Minister of Justice. Well, that's another case. The motion for a resolution here, as the Minister for Justice has also mentioned, is perhaps a little in continuation of the debate we had last week about whether we should have the Danish model of moderate accumulation or whether we should in fact have a more American-inspired model of absolute accumulation, where the penalties are thus built on top of each other. Now it's about killing and some examples of killing. One might have killed a pregnant child and thus killed an unborn child, and it is clear that I do not think there are any people who cannot feel it right down in their stomachs when such things take place, and unfortunately we see examples of this. Therefore, it is also aggravating circumstances and leads to more severe penalties than if it had been otherwise. And then the question is whether you should add it. The principle of building the penalties on top of each other according to American inspired model we had a longer discussion of last week, when we also discussed some of the shortcomings that this entails. So being opposed to the fact that we do not have an absolute accumulation in Danish practice does not change the fact that these killings, including those of pregnant women, are very serious and must also ultimately be punishable by the most severe punishment of the law, which is within the scope of the penal framework. For these reasons, the Social Democrats cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104430	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104437	I'd just like to hear sir. Jeppe Bruus, if not that in mr. Jeppe Bruus' eyes are much more violent and much worse if someone who is pregnant and is murdered also loses his child. Should this not result in a much higher penalty for the perpetrator who committed the crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104459	Yes, it should.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104504	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104505	But what is it really that prevents the Socialists from supporting such a proposal as this? Because the point is that unfortunately we have similar matters to this proposal. A few years ago we saw in Herlev a woman who is murdered and who is pregnant and who loses, of course, his child, loses her life because there is a killer, a completely insane killer who commits this crime. - Sir... Jeppe Bruus did not see that it should actually mean doubling the punishment given because it is going to hurt two people when the perpetrator kills?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104547	Now, in fact, I am a little unsure whether it is described here and whether in fact that perpetrator was ever found. However, I am in total agreement, and that is why I replied yes to the first question. Should killing a pregnant woman and killing the unborn child be more severe? Yes, absolutely, and I have every confidence, at least with my knowledge, that it is doing so in relation to the judgments that are being measured on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104613	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104627	Thank you for that, President. Do you have to be severely punished for killing two people instead of one? Yes, of course you do. This is also the case in today's legal system, and often killing and then double homicide brings with it a life sentence. Do you want us to see if you're gonna serve for even longer in prison for this? Yes, we are ready for that in the Left, because hardcore serial criminals are being punished too often for mild. Here's some softness we need to make up for. The judicial system is for the victims and not for the criminals. However, the question of whether we should double or triple is similar to a discussion that was in the Chamber last week, I think, where this was discussed in general. The view of the Left has not changed, although I can hear that it has happened to other parties. The introduction of American conditions in Denmark, where people can then get 416 years of imprisonment plus eight times life, is not something we think one should have in the Danish legal system. We are of course in favour of judging criminals, particularly serial criminals, but we cannot support the proposal that penalties should be stacked on top of each other and dobble up, so that we have American conditions. So, yes, thank you for tougher penalties, including for murderers and double murderers, but we cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104752	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104757	I really think it is a little too bad that the Left will not support the proposal. I can say that if you've lived 7 months inside your mother's belly, you're defined as a child. Then there can be no abortion or anything like it. One is defined as a child, as a human being, and therefore it is the view of the Danish People's Party that it is no use that if you kill a woman who is pregnant for the seventh month, then only one murder will be convicted. I would like to ask: does the Left not agree with the principle that this should actually be because it is a child and therefore a human being, and that it is thus two people that you kill if you kill a woman who is pregnant for the seventh month?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104850	I think it sounds wise and right to say that Mr. Peter Skaarup says that if you kill a woman and thus commit a bestialous crime and then she's even pregnant and in this case 7 months is over, then you have to be punished harder than if you've just committed one murder in the goose's eyes. Yes, it seems Left. But what lies in the proposal here is that you have to double up, and the system of doubling up is to introduce American conditions into the Danish legal system, which we do not like. But yes, thank you for more severe punishment in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104930	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104931	Let us leave the United States alone and say that the United States has their system and that we have our system. If we now say that the United States has their system and we have our system, then I would also like to ask the Left if it would not be fair to say from a general point of view that if we have two people we have a woman and we have a child killed, then you have to have a double penalty. Do you need a discount because you kill two people? Is that what the Left wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503104959	There should be no discount in our penal system because you commit many bestialous crimes. And if you commit two murders, you have to be punished more severely than if you commit one murder. Should we look at how to punish hardcore criminals and especially hardcore serial criminals even harder? Yes, we in the Left think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503105023	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin from the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503105042	The purpose of this motion for a resolution is to require the government to submit a bill which will have the effect that the killing or attempted murder of two or more persons, including where the victim of the murder is visibly pregnant, or where the perpetrator is aware that he or she is pregnant and where the unborn child also dies, must involve prison sentences for each murder. I am well aware of the terrible case from Kolding which caused the Danish People's Party to retable this proposal. It was a 31-year-old man who killed his girlfriend who was pregnant. In connection with the case, he was in custody in surrogate custody of a court psychiatric ward. This is another shameful example of a feminist murder case, which I think we should be much better at preventing. I do not know the case well enough to know whether there had been any evidence that it would develop there that it would end up with a very tragic killing, but the reason why the SF in the police settlement went in with a special case of getting entities to fight crime in close relationships is a recognition that the police have not managed to prevent these cases well enough. Conditions in stalking cases are not being exploited, the expulsion law is not being used, there is so much potential and also life saving by getting better at seeing the signs that something is wrong at an earlier time. Now we got the units or teams that are right and we expect these crimes to be given much more attention than they have been given in the past and that we are lifting these cases and preventing them from ending up with killing in the utmost consequence. It simply cannot be that the most dangerous place for a woman to stay is in her own home, but that is the reality. At least that's where she's at risk of being killed, and it's mostly by an ex-partner or partner. In relation to the issue of punishment, there is no doubt that there must be an opportunity to impose a very, very severe sentence on such a type of homicide, and that is, of course, also true when the victim is pregnant, and that is already an aggravating circumstance if the victim is pregnant in a homicide case, and that is probably the right way to do so. The central point is that there is an opportunity to impose very severe penalties, and that is there. Of course there may be one, what can one say, good things for the relatives to know that it ends with a very, very long punishment, but I also think that the relatives need much more help than a punishment, because the most important thing is enough that a proper sentence is put, and I really think we can do that too. After all, I would like to go where we are getting better at preventing this type of case and would even longer penalties help to do that? No, I don't think so. Unfortunately, I think that a great many of these things are happening in affection, in violent jealousy, in anger, and I just don't think that the perpetrators are thinking about what the penalty will be at the moment they chop up with the knife, as it was in this case, or whether for that matter there is a baby in the stomach. I think we owe it to the victims not to end up being victims, and we have worked too hard in the SF with the proposals that we have had, which ensure better protection, better police action, more prevention, and I think that this is where the very big move lies right now, and I think we owe it to women that we do not always only put in place once the damage has been done. Thank you for the floor. It is a good thing that the President is looking at me, because I should like to say hello from the Radicals and the Enhedslisten. I just received a picture from Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard, who sits at a tire center, I can tell, so I hope we see him soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503105457	Thank you to the SF rapporteur, also with the greetings of other parties. There is no brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and so it has become the turn of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Mads Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503105525	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for another proposal. The fact that more than one murder is to be punished more severely, I did not really imagine there were two views on it. Of course it should, and we certainly believe that in the Conservative People's Party. Last week, we had a long discussion in this Chamber about punitive measures, and here I pointed out that we should look in particular at the possibility of judging more strongly, for example, by repeated cases of serious violence or killing, without it hitting socially vulnerable people who have repeatedly committed petty criminal acts in stressful moments. In fact, that was exactly what I was missing last week, but as I think I will get with this proposal here. For this proposal specifically points to the problem of killing, namely that one should be judged for the lives one takes. Having said that, there are also some challenges to the proposal and something in relation to practical coinage, you might say, and in relation to this, for example, with pregnant women, where there are some challenges. I certainly don't imagine it's super comfortable to sit in a courtroom trying to prove that this perpetrator knew about the pregnancy if it was early in pregnancy. In fact, I also think that the front page of the proposal and the title of this is a parliamentary resolution on the sharpening of penalties for the murder of more people, actually in my ears, sounds appealing, and we would like to back that up. But there are also some places where I think there is something in relation to the practicalities we should have looked at, and we would really like to use the committee procedure for that. So, as a starting point, we are positive and are happy to take it down to the Legal Affairs Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503105659	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503105706	Thank you. This is, in fact, a little in line with what the rapporteur has said, namely the debate we had last week on the principle here. So, do you support Conservative absolute accumulation, where the punishments one to one are built on top of each other? It was not quite clear to me last week, and it may not be quite clear to me today either, because of course we support the proposal, but nevertheless. So, in relation to the principle: do the Conservatives now support the idea that in the Danish context one should have a system where one for one builds the penalties on top of one another, as is the proposal here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503105745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503105747	Thank you. I almost expected it to come, and thank you for that. No, we do not, and that is also why I keep pointing this out that it depends a little on what kind of crime it is, in relation to the need to tighten up the penalties. And that is why we are also pleased that this proposal specifically seeks to tighten up the penalties for the killing of more people. But when you start reading the background material, it's all about just building the punishment upstairs. However, I have actually heard almost every party in the Chamber talking about the need to punish more killings. We can back that up, and that is the headline. And that is why we think that perhaps there are some elements in the proposal that we should take down in committee and see if we can land in some way, if all parties still think it is actually a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503105824	There is no wish for the second brief remark. And so there are no more brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503105847	I am not going to comment on the height difference between me and any other ministers or Members in here, especially when I am unable to wear stylets. Well, back to this horrible case. Are there worse crimes than deliberately killing another human being? Yes, it does kill two or more people. Last week we debated the case law in Denmark that gives criminals a so-called penalty rebate if they commit more crimes and are convicted of them at the same time. In New Citizens, we believe that this principle of law risks weakening both our support for our legal system and our sense of justice for the victims. Because, of course, for a killer there must be full punishment for every single life that the killer takes. Of course, a serial killer or a man who kills both a woman and her child should not be rewarded with a penalty rebate Against this background, we in New Citizens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503105953	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. As with the previous proposal, I do not see any rapporteur present from the Liberal Alliance, nor do I from the Christian Democrats. This has already been the time to welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley's point of view. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Welcome to sir. Peter Skaarup, who appears to have to adjust the height of the speaker desk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503110027	Thank you. Yeah, this platform's gonna run up a lot. Well, it is about the Danish People's Party having one, we think, good proposals here, and we can look into the Chamber and see that we can thank Conservative, New Civil and possibly the Left for supporting some of the proposal or intention about any of the proposal. In other words, it does not get a majority and, as we have also heard, there are a number of parties that are not present, so it is perhaps a little difficult to debate quite comprehensively what the Folketing thinks about this proposal. Unfortunately, however, we also have to note that the government and the Socialists will not support the proposal, although I really think there are some good arguments for it, and that we have cases, unfortunately, in our small society, where some are so crazy and bestiality, that they also murder a woman who is pregnant. Because you just have to say that if you are pregnant for the seventh month, you are so far into the pregnancy that you will not be able to have an abortion, because from then on the child is regarded as a human being. It is considered what it is: a child. And if you're pregnant for the seventh month and complications arise, you'll start a birth, because that's how far along in the pregnancy it's a child that the woman carries. If you kill a woman who is seven months old, you will be convicted of killing only one person, as the penal code has been tightened up today. The Danish People's Party then wants you to be the perpetrator of two, because you have also killed the child that the woman carries. That is the logic for us in the Danish People's Party. And you can always discuss circumstances... you can do that in every case... but the thing is, you kill two people when you kill a woman who's pregnant for the seventh month. We have this terrible case from Herlev, which has not been solved yet, and which has made a great deal of impression on many, I think. At any rate, I am very impressed by the fact that we have a matter like this and that it has not been possible to resolve. It's an independent story. We're making a travel team in the police settlement that's been made, and that's good. We hope that it will then increase the likelihood of solving the kind of crime that needs to be solved; which we must do everything possible to solve. But back to the proposal: In practice, in the view of the Danish People's Party, two people are killed legally, but today only one person is punished. Then a woman is visibly pregnant, or if you know that a woman is pregnant, you must be punished for killing two people if you kill the mother and the child also dies. It cannot be otherwise, and that is why we are hoping that at some point we can obtain a majority in favour of this proposal, and if, as is currently the case, we do not achieve a drastic tightening, so that we are sure that society will take such a strong stand against killing a pregnant woman as we possibly can. As I have said, we will continue to work on this proposal and we hope that somehow we can get a majority in order to significantly tighten up the penalties in this area. We believe, as I said, that there should be double punishment if two people are killed in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503110407	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503110437	The debate is open. Welcome to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503110447	In fact, the President may be right to say that it is time to have glasses again. Some people in here will probably think I've never had clear-sightedness. But thank you for the floor and for the motion for a resolution. When a conditional sentence is handed down, there is a requirement here, but in this case there is also an expectation that there will be no new crime. It doesn't just mean that a vandalist should stay away from graffiti or that a burglar shouldn't steal. This means that there is a requirement and an expectation that one will at all keep one's path clean. It should be perfectly clear to those who are convicted that that is what lies in a conditional sentence. That is why the government's position is that the rules must be based on the fact that if you do not keep your path clean, yes, then the hammer will fall. You must not avoid prison sentences by continuing your criminal career in a new path. So this is an important question of principle raised by this proposal. Nevertheless, for various reasons, the government cannot support the proposal. The authors of the observations state that it is now a condition for the release of a conditional sentence that the new crime is equivalent. I would like to point out that this is a wrong assumption. Let me therefore begin by outlining the rules that apply to the area. When the court sentences suspended imprisonment, the execution of the sentence shall be postponed until an probationary period has expired. So if the sentenced person in the probationary period complies with the terms of the conditional sentence, he should not serve his prison sentence. The main condition is that the convicted person does not commit any new criminal offences during the probationary period. If the sentenced person does so, then the starting point is, moreover, according to Article 61 of the Penal Code, that a conditional sentence is triggered. However, if, following a specific and individual assessment of the case, the conditions prevail, the court may choose to impose a penalty, conditional or unconditional, for the new relationship without triggering the prior sentence imposed. So the starting point is the opposite. The starting point is that it triggers the conditional penalty unless the courts consider that there is no reason for it in the specific situation in question. In assessing what is appropriate in the particular case, the court includes, among other things, whether it is similar, whether it is a rapid relapse, the relationship between the length of the conditional sentence and the punishment for the new relationship, and the personal situation of the convicted person. So if crime is equal, the Criminal Code can set out a starting point which states that if the convicted person commits new crimes during the probationary period, then he must be punished with unconditional prison sentences, both for the past and for the new relationship. And in the view of the government, that is the right starting point. The proposer suggests that the new offence should always be subject to a prior conditional penalty regardless of the nature of the offence. The proposal, for example, will: I think it would be a good idea for us to have a conditional prison sentence for the violation of the racism clause, regardless of the circumstances, if the sentenced person were to be fined, for example, in the probationary period. illegal possession of pepper spray. After all, we ourselves have experienced and talked about and discussed the diversity of the world that is out there in a number of debates here. And that diversity is best taken into account if our rules are rules that set the framework, but where the specific situation is assessed by the courts, which can look at all the circumstances that may exist. So the rules in force are, in the view of the government, the right starting point and this allows us to avoid results that are actually unfair. In addition, in the specific situation, however, I now think that the principle is that the proposal would, of course, lead to additional financial and personnel burdens in a situation where we have a stocking rate of over 100 and where we have an economy that is strained. I am aware that the resolution deals with situations where the first crime is criminal offences, the arms law and the law on drugs, and therefore something is left out. Nevertheless, one will be in a situation where our criminal services will be burdened with everything else equally. However, I do believe that the authors of the motion raise an important question of principle about the triggering of conditional sentences, and so I agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that there is a need to focus on when conditional sentences are triggered. This means, among other things, that we need to learn more about how much it means for the court to decide that the new crime in the probationary period, for example. is equal, as mentioned. Therefore, I would ask the Attorney General to initiate a mapping of how the rules are administered in practice in the courts. And whatever comes out of that survey, it will give us an actual picture of how conditional sentences are triggered. In other words, we also have another basis to stand on if we want to discuss whether the rules work as they were intended or whether they need to be corrected. So, with those comments, I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111120	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111124	This is a fairly basic proposal because we have been able to see that there has been a practice which means that if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it, we are going to have to do something about it. If you are convicted of street robbery and have a suspended sentence and you make a break-in afterwards, then there is no naturality in the fact that the conditional sentence is triggered because it is not equal crime that you have committed. That seems to us quite contrary to what we thought and believe the legislation is, and if you look at the legislation, it is very clear: if you get a conditional sentence, it will trigger an unconditional sentence if you make new crime. That is the starting point. However, there is a public prosecutor's report here from 2015 which tells us that it has to be more or less equal crime, at least in certain situations, and we have also been able to see when we have checked legal proceedings that there has actually been a practice that means that it really has to be equal in order for it to trigger an unconditional judgment. So I am glad that the Minister will look into this further, and I would just like to hear the Minister here in the end: does the Minister not agree that there is indeed a problem, if it is the case that other forms of crime are being committed, it does not trigger the unconditional sentence after that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111246	This is a good question, and in fact I also think it illustrates a little why there is a need to look into this. It is my view that the public prosecutor's report quoted is not about the release of conditional sentences, but about the choice between conditional penalties and unconditional penalties, and not about when an already convicted penalty should be triggered if new crimes are committed during the probationary period. That is to say, the Public Prosecutor's investigation is about something other than what we are discussing here. The paragraph referred to states that it is the starting point that a conditional sentence may be imposed if the person concerned has not previously been sentenced to conditional or unconditional imprisonment for similar crime. However, this is a different situation from the one we are discussing now, namely the issue of imposing conditional penalties. That is why, with all due respect to the author of the motion, whom I know as extremely thorough, I think that we may simply have got a little wrong here in what the Attorney General says in the communication.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111357	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111358	Thanks for the last one. In other words, the Minister of Justice can deny that there is a practice in the courts which shows that if you do not commit exactly the same crime, you do not get the unconditional penalty; it does not exist. One always gets an unconditional punishment, even if it is another form of crime that one commits after having received a conditional sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111429	No, I cannot deny that, and that is really why I think I would ask the Attorney General to investigate under what circumstances conditional sentences are triggered in practice because I am simply uncertain about what it is like. I can easily explain, as I have done, the situation, namely that there is no demand for equal crime, that the starting point is that you are convicted, the conditional sentence should be triggered, but that there are circumstances that allow the courts to say: we do not do so in the specific situation. But I think there is a need to look at what the practical conditions are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111506	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111527	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party. I actually think that the exchange of views that has just taken place between the Minister for Justice and Mr. Peter Skaarup, very well shows the value of having a parliamentary debate here in Parliament, because it sounds as if it is wise to have a look at what practice really is and thus also challenge each other a little at what is the starting point of this motion for a resolution. I will try to say a few words about the principle that I actually experience goes back to a number of the proposals that we are dealing with and which come from the Danish People's Party. Here it is about the need to have an automatic. There should be no estimate or assessment. We discussed the previous cumulation of penalties, i.e. whether or not there is an agreement. automatics just need to be doubled. We have also had the discussion on minimum penalties, i.e. on the basis of per cent. A minimum penalty must be imposed automatically. What these proposals have in common is a desire to change our system so that we remove the possibility that a judge or others can make individual estimates based on the situation they are in. But here we are told that we have rules and frameworks, and that is the schedule we have to follow regardless of what. There is probably the fundamental difference in how we perceive the Danish system, we have that in the Social Democratic Party we attach value to it so that we agree that there is a need to punish harshly that there is actually a possibility that an estimate can be made that a judge can give a judgment on the basis of the particular case and not on the basis of an automatical basis. We see that the relationship between the crime being committed and the concern for the victim, the relatives, our courts have a value. Does this mean that everything is well and well preserved? No, it does not, and I really think that the previous exchange of words bears witness to this, and also that it would be very good to learn a little more about what practice is like. If there is a need to rectify this, we are happy to take part in this work. For these reasons, however, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111746	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. It's for mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111750	I'm gonna try to ask you this way. Well, I actually recognize that Mr. Jeppe Bruus has a point that the courts should have some freedom to judge certain things, but is Mr. However, Jeppe Bruus does not agree that if you get a lifted index finger, that is, if you get a conviction in the courts for having committed crime, that is, a conditional sentence because you have to have a chance, and it may be that it goes in a different direction, and it may be that he becomes a better person, and that was the first time, etc. etc. For a suspended sentence may be a prison sentence, but that doesn't mean prison, you don't get in. I think a lot of people are being cheated on that. You don't get to sit. You do not get the judgment that you actually believed in relation to the conditional judgment. That is why it is important for there to be justice afterwards if you do not give a damn about society and continue to commit crime. - Sir... Jeppe Bruus does not see that there is actually a problem if it is the case that you can get many conditional sentences, but in fact never get the unconditional sentence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111903	Yes, I can, and I think it is a good idea to have conditional sentences in first-time cases, because we know that if we put people in prison, unfortunately, the risk is that they end up becoming even more criminal than they were before. That is why it is acting to be able to give a conditional sentence, which hopefully has a terrifying effect, among other things. about people refraining from committing new crimes. It is, after all, like the whole idea, so it is all about it having that terrifying effect. As I understand it, it is also the case that the starting point is that new crime triggers the conditional sentence that you have in front of you. Well, that's what we're gonna learn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111940	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503111941	I really think that is a good answer, but the question is simply: if we agree on it in relation to getting a yellow good, where you then, if you get the other yellow card, get a red card, that is if that is the consensus we have, then Mr. Jeppe Bruus then does not agree that when we look at some of the judgments we see in the courts, we see that there is in fact a problem because there can be more conditional sentences there without triggering an unconditional sentence? It is also possible to obtain more conditional expulsions without triggering an unconditional expulsion, which means home with the person concerned. Mr. Jeppe Bruus, isn't that a problem that we have to deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112019	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112020	Obviously, if you get two yellow cards in the same game, per. automatic triggers a red card. But if you get yellow cards in three consecutive games or there are more games in between, then there is a time for you to have the quarantine, that is, the red card, which then costs a playday or several playing days quarantine. And it may also say something a little pictorial about that if you commit the same type of crime right after each other in the same fight, it is triggered. This is also how I understand the system. And then we'll learn more about how many similar games in other sports it takes before you get more game days quarantined. I look forward to learning more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112058	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112103	Thank you. It is simply because we discussed expulsion. Is the Social Democratic Party willing to look at this also in relation to expulsion? Well, the Social Democrats are willing to look at it in relation to when you have cases like them, sir. Peter Skaarup tells of where a criminal and perpetrator can be judged with a warning of expulsion on several occasions and still not be expelled? So, this is the specific case which I have mentioned innumerable times now, about Cecilie, who is raped by a man who is a Somali citizen, and he already has three acts of violence, he has received a warning of expulsion for every violent sentence, and then he gets his fourth sentence, which is a rape sentence, and then he gets again Is the Social Democrat willing to look at it too when we talk about it here about whether the one warning or the one conditional penalty should lead to a real, concrete punishment afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112154	Yeah, well, now it's the Attorney General who set this investigation in motion. And now allow me to say that I think it is very natural to leave it a part of it. Then he'll have to smile and nod down here. But I think that is obvious, because I agree with that seems absurd.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112210	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112211	Well, I'm glad. And it can be said that even if the Minister did not wish to do so, perhaps the rapporteur could speak on behalf of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112218	That's what I do, too. Pernille Vermund It is very distinguished).
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112220	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112236	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this proposal. That is what all the rapporteurs always say when a proposal has been tabled, that is to say, thanks to the parties for putting it forward, and then you pour it down the board and say how terrible it is. But I'm not actually going to do that here, because I actually think that the Danish People's Party is addressing an issue that is really relevant. I've experienced it myself. I myself, of course, before joining the Parliamentary Parliament, have been a judge in the court of the city and have been watching people with conditional sentences get away with new conditional sentences. I was then told by those with long judicial exams that there was no equal crime. If, for example, you're gonna have to... have been sentenced to a probationary sentence for something drug related and then subsequently commit a burglary in order to finance the drug crime that you intend to commit again; then there is not necessarily equal crime. In other words, it is not necessarily connected, and that is why I am so glad that the Minister for Justice indicated here from the platform that a study is now being carried out on the practicalities of the conditional sentences so that we can get the spade deeper. That is why I would also like to say that we do not support this proposal today but are awaiting that study. And when that investigation is there, we'll see what it shows. But here we are clearly going to go into the political discussions that I hear from the Minister who will be summoned on the basis of that study, with the view that this concept of equal crime must have been looked at further. In our opinion, there are cases today where crime is de facto similar, but not in the letter of the law; and therefore there are too few conditional sentences being triggered. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this issue. Thank you to the Minister for starting an investigation. And I am convinced that we will have some good discussions on this from then on, at least in the direction proposed by the Danish People's Party here, but probably not quite where all 300 paragraphs of the penal code per year are concerned. Automatically triggers it. But at least we have to look at that concept equally; we are ready for that in the Left. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112455	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome to the meeting and maybe it's on behalf of more people. It will turn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112515	Yes, I will continue to greet you from the Enhedslisten and Radicals. We'll walk along nicely here. This motion for a resolution should allow for the automatic release of a suspended sentence under the criminal code, the arms law or the law on drugs if you are convicted of having committed new crime, regardless of the nature of the new form of crime. We in the SF cannot back that up. We welcome the fact that the Minister for Justice is trying to investigate the subject a little more, and then we will see if there is a basis for making some changes, but we cannot therefore support this proposal. We think it is a little too far-reaching for a conditional sentence to be triggered, whatever the new offence has been. Let us take an example, and I do not know if it can really work, but perhaps it is very illustrative. We have a person who has had a long history of abuse. At one point, he starts selling drugs to finance it. It's gonna be a lot, it's gonna be a very long sentence. In the field of criminal justice, he or she is treated and he or she is also educated. It's actually going really well. He is in a good development, is released, continues his good development and does not do a new thing. But then one day he comes up to the top with his neighbor over a hedge. The neighbor is very angry and excited, gets very close, so the other one can almost feel the spit on his face. The person takes and pushes the neighbor away, and unfortunately the neighbor falls. There's violence. Perhaps they have both contributed to the conflict, but violence is, of course, the responsibility of the individual. Should he then enter and have triggered the previous sentence in the baggage with the probationary period that may have been there? I think most people will say that it is quite uncool that they should go back in and serve among addicts when they are now in a good development, and most people might also say that if you lose your head in this way, it is something that can happen, even if it is of course not allowed to happen. I think it would be easy to find examples of other things in which we would at least think it would be unfair if a conditional sentence were triggered on the basis of a less serious incident. That is precisely why it may be sensible to leave an estimate to the judges so that they can assess whether the conditional judgment should be triggered. Besides, it is not so long ago that the Folketing restricted the field of conditional convictions with community service when it came to serious violence. We may not think that the need to make further adjustments to that legislation is so urgent right now. At the same time, we must also say that we have a huge challenge, with a very high number of prisoners in prisons, and, of course, stricter penalties can make sense in some cases. We just think it might make less sense right here. At least it's good to leave a hole so we don't get to see these very unfair things. We do not think we are going to screw up the right screw with this proposal, and that is why we are against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112838	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112848	I think it is interesting that, as I have just heard, the SF is more or less the only party in this room defending the current rules, and this is done quite openly, saying: if you have received a suspended sentence, you have received a warning, as in football, it should not necessarily trigger a red card if you make a new offence and, as it were, a serious offence, even if it is violence. I just have to say that the chain jumps off for the Danish People's Party. We really do see that you get a conditional sentence, like a lifted index finger, and if you do something new the second time, it has to trigger some kind of consequence. For a conditional sentence is not a consequence in itself, because it is conditional and only triggered if you do something else. So I am simply wondering why it is that the SF cannot see the reason why, if a conditional sentence has fallen and you do something new, it should trigger a real punishment. For it is the unconditional sentence that is a real punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503112957	I just think it's really good to leave the opportunity to make an estimate with the courts. It is the case that if you have a conditional sentence, there are some conditions attached, and you break equal terms, yes, then you can go in and serve the sentence. And that's fair enough. But I think we will find examples of how it will be very unfair if we just say this: the courts should not have that option. In fact, I think that some of this is also a little bit about what kind of penal system we want. Should we have a system of penalties which also allows people to improve? It is clear that, of course, it cannot run forever, that you continue to commit new circumstances, and then you also have the opportunity, like taking it in as an aggravating circumstance, to impose a new relationship. So I believe that there are already some possibilities in our legal system. Finally, I do not think the time is right either to make this proposal and generate a lot of new inmates when we have a criminal justice service which, to put it mildly, is under pressure. I may miss seeing the good examples, but it may be that the Minister for Justice brings them where we can say: yes, this certainly means that we have to change the system. But we have to wait and see what the Minister will come up with in his practical study.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503113129	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503113130	However, SF does not think it can create some kind of apathy towards our legal system if Danes and citizens here in Denmark experience that, for example. A burglary they've had is being charged very mildly, perhaps even with a suspended sentence? Already there are too many people who jump off, and then they say: 'Well, if we don't want to report a break-in, we don't want to report the crime and what we have been exposed to, because what we have to face is so extensive when we have to run a case, and if a suspended sentence is triggered, and if we don't even trigger an unconditional sentence, then it can all be equally important. Doesn't SF think that there can actually be people in Denmark who take it that way, and therefore we don't get reported crime at all? Then we get situations where you have completely outlawed conditions in some places, because you don't want to report it as a citizen of Denmark, because nothing happens anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503113223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503113224	No, in fact, I believe that where the citizens give up is when they see that the police do nothing about it. We know, of course, that one of the most preventive is the risk of discovery. So of course it matters that the case gets through the system. But when we look at the studies that have been made of the Danes' view of punishment, it turns out that the Danes actually, the more nuances of the perpetrator and the case etc. They know, are more supportive of the fact that it is also punishments that are wise and that are designed in such a way that they are at least fit to pass on the perpetrator to perhaps not to create new crime. That is why I would at least just warn against us turning too much on all sorts of buttons and losing some of it in our legal system. But I can't deny that there could be an example where I also think: No, this really doesn't work. But now I will wait for the Minister's practical investigation and see if there is anything that convinces me that I should get a different opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503113321	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party and having Mads Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503113338	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the proposal. And thanks to the Minister for Justice for what you might almost call a little law lecture. I shall start by saying that I have actually once signed up for law school at the University of Copenhagen in something that looked like 24 hours, because when I saw the curriculum list, I was quickly gone again. But that's a completely different talk. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that if you commit an act that makes you get a conditional sentence, you have, like, got what we can call society's toughest warning. It can be said in many much more academic ways, but it is almost easier just to keep it quite simple, i.e.: society's toughest warning. That warning today, and fortunately for it, becomes a punishment if you commit new, equal crime, at least as a starting point. What we want to do about this proposal is the real possibility that we can be judged on condition, for example. violence and then be taken with a weapon within a short period of time, without necessarily triggering the conditional sentence. If you are convicted of something, you must be warned that there should be no further wrongdoing, and that is why we in the Conservative People's Party are in favour of the proposal from the Danish People's Party. We warmly welcome a closer examination and look forward to further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503113452	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503113514	Thank you. With migration from Muslim countries, a ravaged crime culture is accompanied by repeated violations of violence, fraud, driving madness, shootings, rape and street robbery. All too often criminals get away with a suspended sentence, penalty rebates and a warning of expulsion. It sends out a clear signal to particularly foreign criminals that in Denmark you can ravage and commit crime virtually without consequences. It shouldn't be like that. In Denmark, criminals must be punished to a degree equivalent to the genes they have caused their victims. Foreigners who commit crime must be shown consistently and after the first sentence, and Danish criminals must feel the consequences of their actions. The consideration of the victim must always weigh more heavily than the consideration of the criminal. And it is, to say the least, a mockery of the victims that a criminal can be sentenced to probation and subsequently commit new crimes without triggering the conditional sentence. This needs to be corrected, and therefore New citizens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503113625	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There is no wish for short remarks. It has thus become the rapporteur of the proposers of the Danish People's Party's tour, as I see neither the Liberal Alliance nor the Christian Democrats being present in the Chamber. So welcome to Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503113645	Again, I would very much have liked to have debated this with Radicals, the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance and such parties. It could of course be that they could help to put pressure on the Minister so that such a proposal could be adopted. You could have a rewarding hope. But if we look at the receipt of this proposal, I am glad that the Minister is going to launch a study to clarify this a little more, and that in principle the Left, Conservatives and New Citizens can also see some music in that we are doing away with this tendency for a conditional judgment to be conditional over and over again. Because that is a wrong trend, and that is something that was not the intention, I think at least when people were accepted that people could be sentenced for something. Because then it would trigger an unconditional sentence afterwards. At least that's how I was raised. I see a lot of football, and I think it's good that you get a yellow card, and then you just hold back in the tackles, because then you know that the second time the hammer falls. Our starting point in the Danish People's Party is that if you have committed crime and been lucky enough to have a suspended sentence, it must give a clear warning, and if you commit new crime, the conditional sentence will suddenly become a real verdict, that is, an unconditional sentence. At least that's how it's supposed to be. If we look at case law, it's just not quite the way it is. I really think the rapporteur of the Left was very good at explaining how it was seen as a judge, and that is exactly the same story I hear from some of those I know who are judges. They say that it is more or less a requirement, as it is today, that it should be equal crime, so that it triggers the conditional judgment to become an unconditional judgment. That is to say, if we translate it into ordinary Danish, that a habitual criminal can receive one sentence after another, and if one is merely creative enough, then one can commit different forms of crime without really getting a sentence that is unconditional and thus going to prison. That is how it can be done in practice, and that cannot be the intention, because the legislation is quite clear. I have been looking at the last decree of 2020, section 56 of the Penal Code, and it says: "If the court finds it unnecessary for prison sentences to be enforced, the judgment provides that enforcement is postponed and lapsed at the end of the probationary period. It then goes on to say: "The stay shall be subject to the condition that the sentenced person does not commit a criminal offence during the probation period and that he complies with any conditions laid down pursuant to Article 57. The trial period shall be determined by the court and shall not, as a general rule, exceed three years. However, in exceptional circumstances, a probationary period of up to five years may be fixed. ▪ Translated into ordinary Danish, it means that you get an unconditional sentence if you commit new crime. But, as I said, the case law is just that it has to be equal crime in order for this sentence to be triggered. In the Danish People's Party, we are of the opinion that we need to create a proper case-law that ensures that the warning that has already been so lucky to receive must be understood and understood so that if you commit a new crime, then this conditional sentence is converted into an unconditional judgment. If we get this proposal adopted, what I hope for if not now, then later you strengthen the sense of justice by signaling that a yellow card is really a yellow card, which next triggers a red card. Nobody understands seven yellow cards, right? Or to put it another way: no one respects empty threats. This is really just a child's education. If there is no consequence behind what you mark against the criminal in question, it has very little effect. If you commit crime, you have to be punished, and if you are lucky enough to get rid of a suspended sentence in the first place, then it must be the last conditional sentence you receive. Next time, you have to do your time. Then it is prison sentence, then the hammer falls, if you should have had the conditional sentence at all in the first place. That is the starting point, and we look forward to the Minister's investigation, and we hope that it will give rise to the problem that we have. Because it is really the people's right-of-law awareness that is at stake. If you continue to have conditional sentences, including expulsion sentences, which are given time and time again and never lead to expulsion, people will understand nothing of it, and they must be able to do so when it comes to our legal system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114147	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if there is no objection, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114237	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114250	I would like to begin by saying to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr President. Mads Andersen, who felt that I was giving a lecture I think he said in pretty law last time that it was definitely not intended and that I have great respect that the Conservative rapporteur has been enrolled in law school for 24 hours. I think that if you're going to pick up law school and legal education, you can say "and here I apologize to the President in advance for the choice of words" that the legal education is "and here comes the word "suck to take," but on the other hand it's really good to have. With the opening remarks, I shall move on to the motion for a resolution. A number of initiatives have been taken to stimulate transfer, and this is an important agenda, which the government is also giving priority to. We must ensure that there are more people transferred to serve in the country of origin, which is why the government has among other things. The Commission has decided to initiate proceedings under Article 93 (2) of the EC Treaty in respect of the aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in respect of the aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of an aid scheme for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new We are here and I myself have been in dialogue with the European Commission to make the process slide better, and we are ready to engage in bilateral discussions with countries that are giving rise to challenges. Finally, we have presented a legislative proposal which unfortunately has not been so easy on land as one would have liked, namely the proposal for incentives which should lead to those who agree to transfer to the country of origin experiencing that there are advantages in doing so and that, on the other hand, those who do not do so experience that it is really bad if they do not consent to transfer. We've also recently had a consultation... it's been 14 days? No, it just over a month ago, I guess on this very subject. So this is an important issue, and it is something that we need to focus on, and we can be better at securing the transfer, but this resolution will deprive EU citizens of their services if their country of origin does not meet international obligations. That proposal will undoubtedly be contrary to EU law, but it is also a little difficult, in my opinion, to see the meaning of punishing resident EU citizens for their country of origin. I mean, whoever you need to get hold of and motivate is your homeland. There has been a lot of talk about Romania and the conditions of imprisonment in Romania and so on, but I would just like to say that these conditions no longer give rise to challenges, and we were very interested in the consultation I mentioned earlier. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114551	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114557	The latter, I think, is extremely positive if it is true that Romania and, hopefully, other countries do not pose any challenges. But should we not then see to it that those who are staying in Denmark are sent to serve in their home country? If they do crime in Denmark, and many times it is the burglary of serial criminals who make one relationship after another of this kind of crime, wasn't it an idea that we get them sent home as soon as possible? And as I heard the latest figures from the Minister of Justice, it is just very costly to keep them in Denmark. But it is also the case that there is a need for far more people to return home than is the case today. So where does the Minister see the problems in relation to Romania, if it is now clear?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114656-2	No, it would be to tighten it up to say that Romania is free of charge. What is at stake is that prison conditions for EU countries are the EU regulation that exists. For those countries which are not EU countries, there is a 1983 Council of Europe Convention, and it applies, among other things, to those countries which are not EU countries. for countries such as Turkey, to take a country where there is a great deal. But then there are a number of countries which are neither covered by EU regulation nor by the European Council Convention, and from there are, in fact, most of them with which we are serving, and those countries need to have bilateral arrangements, these are countries such as Turkey. Iraq, Syria, Iran, Afghanistan, Somalia, etc., and there is also a very complex problem, so you have to choose tools according to the situation you have. However, EU citizens account for around 25%. of those we have seated at the time of serving, whom we would like to be able to send out to serve in their home countries. So it's complex.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114808	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114809	Because it's complex. Of course, one can, in principle, oppose a proposal such as this, which is such a proposal for something that is about making demands on the countries, and if they do not meet those requirements, one will withdraw their citizens from the children's check in relation to the benefit they receive; it is an attempt to signal to the countries concerned and there are a great many of them who do not get their citizens back that we will do something about the problem. So I'm just gonna tell the government, what are you gonna do? In other words, if it is such a big problem to get them home, there must be some other tools that you can take up the toolbox if you do not want to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114853	Some of the problems that are now causing problems can be the case-law at home, which we then move to the Department of Justice to speed it up, but also the case-law that is taking place in the country of origin. And one of the things that may be the problem in EU countries is that if we have a expulsion to an EU country that is then appealed to the EU country and comes to the local courts, it may take quite a long time, and then you reach below the six months, which everything else just has to be left before you can make a return under EU rules. So we have to optimize it, and one of the things that can be done is to optimize the procedures, but this is very complex.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114927	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Then the rapporteur's line is set in motion. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503114947	Thank you. These are new tones from the Danish People's Party when one can read a resolution where the whole core is about the protection and defence of living up to the European Convention on Human Rights. I really think that there is reason to praise the Danish People's Party for giving such importance to the European Convention on Human Rights, because it is, in fact, a framework for part of the work we are doing here in our national parliament. Then the proposal is that if there are EU countries that do not comply with the European Convention on Human Rights and therefore we cannot move people to serve in the country of origin, such as Romania, which we have just been around, we must punish those citizens who have nothing to do with it, but who live and work in Denmark. We do not think this kind of thing is a good principle in social democracy, that is to say that we should punish a Romanian who works in Denmark for what is going on in their country of origin, where they cannot accept criminal Romanians. Then it may be that the problem has been resolved, as the Minister for Justice has said, but the very principle we think is wrong and therefore we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115100	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115104	Well, why not? That is really my question to Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Why is it not a good principle with something for something? In other words, if you do not want to take your own citizens who have done crime in Denmark back to serving, then we must do something to signal to those countries that do not take their own citizens back, that we are serious about it. So I'll ask you again, sir. Jeppe Bruus: Why not use this proposal to say to the countries that we actually mean seriously that they should take their own citizens back and that if they do not take their own citizens back, then the end is the end of their citizens getting children's checks in Denmark, being sent home to Romania or other countries for that matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115148	I really have nothing against that principle, so if you cooperate with other countries, then you say: we have cooperation here, and that then requires cooperation here or on some other parameters. After all, this is something that is used in foreign policy, and I think that is quite fair and legitimate. What I object to here is that there is a set of rules for migrant workers in the European Union. So the fact that we in Denmark should then say that we are stepping out of them, or saying that if you come from Romania, you do not fall under those rules is what I think is the problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115219	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115221	Well, it may be that sir. Jeppe Bruus thinks that is the problem here, but I remember an election campaign, and it was not so long ago when the Social Democrats decided very strongly that it was also too bad that there were no more of these criminal foreigners who had been sent back to serve in their own countries and that the bourgeois government had clumsed around in it and not done enough, and that at least it had to happen. But then the government came to be called the Social Democrats, or vice versa: the Social Democrats came into government. But did something happen? You know, you've been in government for almost two years... has something really happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115300	Yes, I can fully confirm that we were somewhat puzzled that the Danish People's Party had been in power for almost 20 years in Denmark and we still had so much trouble getting criminals expelled. We thought that was all, too bad, and that is why we went to the polls to make it better and we work for it every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115317	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115336	Thank you for that, President. The aim of this proposal, which is, of course, to make more criminal foreigners serve in their country of origin, is a good and noble purpose, and we can support that in the Left. We can also support a call for the government to do further and take further initiatives to ensure that more criminal foreigners are serving in the home country. It is both in relation to those we have in other EU countries where we can put additional pressure through the EU system for them to comply with the European rules of the game that have actually been made in this area but are not always respected, and it is also, of course, in relation to those countries with which we do not have agreements today, where resources could be deployed by the government to actually make agreements with some of these countries. After all, we know it from other countries where there are exit ambassadors running around trying to make agreements on behalf of the Danish state. So this is an area that could be given priority by the government. It is particularly true that when the Social Democracy was in opposition, there was no limit to how easy it was if only the Social Democracy came into government. I just want once again I've done it before from this platform... refer to the election poster with the present Prime Minister's counterfeit, where it says: "Think what we can do if we get a new government. Just think what we can do if we get a new government. After all, there is virtually no limit to it, and one of the things you could do very easily with a snap was to get more criminal foreigners to serve in the home country. Now the Social Democratic Party has come to power, and then you wouldn't want to do the thing you could do. This is because the area is complex and it is difficult, and we cannot support the proposal either, because it would be contrary to EU law, but we would like to join the chorus that calls on the government to do more in this area, because we need to do more to get foreign criminals to serve in the country of origin. It is expensive that it should be in Denmark, and it violates the sense of justice. Then let's have them sent home. Let's do more for that. We would like to give that invitation to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115544	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115549	Thanks for resurrecting that poster. It was very good if it had otherwise kept, but the promises were not kept at that point either. Having said that, however, I would like to ask the rapporteur why there are major problems with EU law. It should be borne in mind that some of the countries we are talking about here have signed a framework agreement of their own which means that they must withdraw their own citizens. They just don't. They are EU countries. They have to take back their own citizens; they just don't. So if other countries do not comply with these requirements that we should take back our own citizens who have committed crime in other Member States, why should we be the nice schoolboys who do not take the consequences of not doing what they are supposed to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115637	But in the Left we do not think it should be ineffective not to comply with the agreements we are making in the European Community, which we are in favour of. We therefore believe that the current Danish government must make this a priority issue in the EU contexts where it is discussed here. You have to put pressure on the Danish side, and I imagine this is not something I have statistical proof that there could be other, perhaps particularly northern European countries in the same situation as Denmark. Perhaps a coalition of willing countries could be put together here. It is an expression we know from past times that is inside and outside the EU system that we support, trying to put pressure on those countries that do not comply with the agreements we have agreed in the European system. So I do not buy the premise that it should be ineffective, but I do not buy the government's premise that no further action can be taken in relation to what is being done today. I believe that the government must move away from the hands on which they are sitting and then do more to enable more criminal foreigners to serve in their country of origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115736	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115739	I fully agree that a collection of good forces within the European Union and also like elsewhere working on this matter is a good thing, but I know that this was what the bourgeois government was trying to do, and it may also be that the Socialists are trying to do so. It just hasn't done anything. We still have a large contingent which fills up in Danish prisons, which are not Danish citizens, and which should serve in the country of origin. So what I'm saying to the Left here, if it wasn't an idea to say: anything? The other countries do not comply with EU rules; should Denmark not signal that we will not do so until they understand that we are serious?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115815	I do not think that Denmark should signal that we will not abide by the rules because others do not. I think that's a bad principle: because the neighbor beats his wife, I shouldn't start beating my wife. However, I would like to do something more to ensure that the neighbour does not beat his wife, and I would like the government to do something more to ensure that there are more foreign criminals coming home and serving in the country of origin. You could appropriately look at the election poster: • Think what you can do if you get a new government. Here I would like the Minister of Justice to think a little less and act a little more, so that we can sort out the purpose of this proposal, which we share with the Danish People's Party, namely that more foreign criminals should serve in the prisons of their country of origin. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503115859	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Since it is 11:59 a.m., I will now postpone the sitting until 11:00 a.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20210503130000	The sitting is resumed. We are dealing with the first reading of motion for a resolution. B 195. The debate started before lunch, and now we have reached Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503130032	Thank you for the floor. What is a little interesting about this proposal is that it forms part of a series of, what can be said, attempts to push different governments into action when it comes to sending people to serve in their home countries. As I remember, in 2011 we were a red government at the time, who took the initiative to set these processes in motion. At first, however, things were rather sluggish, but far more were returned than had been done under the previous Blue Government. As I remember, the Danish People's Party and probably others held a significant pressure on the Red Government, which started to send people home, or at least make the first moves to do so. And when the power changed, I imagine I wasn't here, so I can't know for good reasons that red politicians have also kept pressure on the subsequent blue government to get these repatriations going. And when I start talking to it, it's because I don't think one has anything to let the other hear in this area. It is not really as easy as we imagine. At any rate, I find it difficult to see that government before me, which does not want to do anything in this area. That is why we must also see whether the new Minister of Justice, who is not so new anymore, can also set this area on fire. At least we all have an interest, I think, in this happening. Is this supposed to happen with this proposal from the Danish People's Party? We do not think so in the SF. In fact, we think it is wrong to take the children's check from hard-working Romanians who are here legally, make an effort and take some jobs, including in areas where there is a labour shortage. And I think it would be a little off to say that because their own country did not have to meet any obligations, as we can hear from the Minister saying that it is getting a little bit under control, we have to take the children's check off them. That would probably be quite wrong, and I do not think that we are pushing Romania or other countries by bothering their citizens here in Denmark. I don't think they're gonna give a shit about that. This does not mean that the problem is not real, because the Danish People's Party is pointing to a problem, namely that we have a prison system which is very much on its knees at the moment; there is a lack of seats and we continue to open new capacity. And we need hands, too. So there is clearly something to be done so that we can, what can be said, free up some seats. And I am quite sure that the government will do that if they can get away with it and find some wise solutions to it. I think I'm just trying to say that it's not as easy as it looks, and it's been tried by changing governments. This does not mean that we should not try to develop ideas on how to move forward, but it will certainly not be with this proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503130347	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. I hardly dare ask, but is it the case that the rapporteur should greet other parties? I see that the Radical Left is present, but it could be that there was something in relation to the Enhedslisten too. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt I think I can say hello from the Enhedslisten, but I believe it is the radical rapporteur who has promised to do so. But at least now it's done). So I would like to thank Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt. The next rapporteur, who has arrived, is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503130434	Thank you for the floor, President. I understand that I have been missed by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and it is always nice to be missed. I can say that I listened diligently at the Hillerød Tyre Centre earlier today when my car was flattened, so I have heard every word, Mr. Peter Skaarup has said in today's debate. I can assure him of that. And Mr. Peter Skaarup is welcome to ask a lot of good questions any minute after I have delivered my speech here. The Danish People's Party is proposing to suspend the payment of child and youth benefits to EU citizens from Member States who do not accept their own citizens convicted of crime or who do not comply with obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights. That is where I am really glad to have just come back to this point, because it is interesting that the Danish People's Party will, on the one hand, resign from the European Union, but, on the other hand, at the same time, the rules of the European Union are so important that a penalty must be imposed for not complying with them. It is new tones from the Danish People's Party, but also welcome tones, that the Danish People's Party appreciates the European Convention on Human Rights, because then there is something good to take from this otherwise grey Monday that we have witnessed today. That is why I hope, among other things. also that the Danish People's Party will help to push Poland and Orbán from Hungary into ensuring that the European Convention on Human Rights must, of course, be observed, and sympathise slightly less with the leaders of those countries and those countries in general than has previously been heard by the Danish People's Party. After all, the proposal here is about the children's check, but I could not help but get a little Christmas light in the face of the Danish People's Party's defence of human rights, because I cannot help dwelling on the opportunities it opens up if more and more people are helping to resist violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. However, in order to remain on the subject of the motion for a resolution, namely the issue of children's cheques, I would like to say that it is important to bear in mind in this context that the children's cheques are a benefit for the maintenance of children and hence, for the Radical Left, there is no point in punishing children for the actions of others, such as the actions of states. Nevertheless, we would like to take this opportunity now that we are here to thank the Danish People's Party for highlighting the importance of the European Convention on Human Rights and, of course, the obligations resulting therefrom must be respected, but it should only be not the children, but the individual state or those who commit the violations of EU legal obligations that must be held accountable. That is why the Radical Left cannot support this motion for a resolution. I should also like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they do not agree with the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503130733	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503130737	We are almost obliged to take the floor here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Kristian Hegaard's excellent rapporteur speech. I thought you were, sir. Kristian Hegaard may have celebrated so much after Arsenal won yesterday that he had simply not come up this morning, but then it was just a flat tire, and then the matter is quite different. We missed sir. Kristian Hegaard and the very expert comments of the Radicals on the various motions for resolutions today. But I think that, in relation to what came a moment ago, it might not have been so well thought out. Because we in the Danish People's Party are not really particularly concerned about wanting to implement this particular proposal, but we are very concerned that if you are a criminal foreigner and have done crime in Denmark and are going home to serve, you will actually come home to your home country and serve. So I would like to hear: if the Radicals do not want to take part in this proposal to suspend the children's check for citizens of those countries who do not want to take their own citizens to serve, what will the Radicals do to ensure that we do the very natural thing, namely that if you have done crime in Denmark, you will go home and serve in the country of origin?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503130842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503130843	I was certainly happy that Arsenal won yesterday. It was really good that they finally won, because they didn't do that on Thursday, where it was a little more important. They should have won the game in the semifinal that was there. In general, there is not much to enjoy during Arsenal's season, so that was not what made me just late this morning. At the same time, Brøndby lost later in the day, which made Sunday less good. So that's not what did it. But in relation to what is really the question, what should be done instead, I think it must be crucial to look at each individual case individually, i.e. what it is that makes the best sense for the individual in terms of rehabilitation. You can't just cut all situations all over one comb. It may be that you have more family or more benefit from rehabilitation in the country of origin. It may also be that there are some other things that argue for it to be in Denmark. So you cannot say in advance where it makes the best sense to have been detained if you had to commit crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503130947	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503130948	However, the Radical Left is always very, very pleased with the EU's very fondness for the EU and, in fact, in the EU, something sensible has been done on this point. A so-called framework has been created which means that countries must accept their own citizens, in other words take them back once they have committed crime in another country. But that does not happen in all cases, far from it in all cases, and that is why we have this debate today. And there I would like to hear Mr. Kristian Hegaard: What do the Radicals think should happen to those countries that do not comply with the framework agreements established in the European Union on this point?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131026	Just as glad I am for Arsenal's victory yesterday, I am just as glad that the questioner is actually pointing out how important EU legal rules are for the community we are part of, how important it is for them to be enforced and how important it is for us to have those rules together. I am actually glad that we can now see the usefulness and impact of this together, and can see that it is good that we have EU law rules that regulate different things, among other things. This question. So that is actually what I take from the debate in, i.e. that the Danish People's Party recognises that EU law rules are important and that they can easily be an advantage in many contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131101	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Mads Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131126	Yes, thank you to the President and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the proposal. At the Conservative People's Party, of course, we share the frustration when we cannot send criminals home to their home countries for serving. It is also something that we ourselves have been very much in favour of. We're not going to house criminals on our account because their own country doesn't want them. This is something that needs to be worked on directly with the individual Member States. Firstly, at present it is not allowed under EU law. Secondly, we really do feel that trying to push the other Member States hard, in relation to having to follow the conventions and EU prison rules, is the right thing, of course, but to do so by depriving ordinary working EU citizens of their right to this child check is not the right way to go. This must be done at a more general level and not in the household of ordinary families. There, of course, we also expect the current Minister of Justice to press as much as the former Minister of Justice did, and we will of course support that. As I said, we understand the frustrations, but we cannot therefore support the proposal as it stands here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131241	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131248	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree with me that it is untenable that even when under the bourgeois minister there was a conservative minister of justice who, in fact, tried to prioritise that area after we pressed for it to happen, nothing happened. Is it not a sign that something new needs to be done to simply make some new buns on the soup so that we can get people who are foreign citizens to return home and do their time and get the countries to accept those who are filling up in Danish prisons today? So the question really goes to the Conservatives, who have been in the position of the Minister of Justice for a number of years and who did not really manage to move much in this area, if not the patience of the Conservatives too, with the countries resisting and that nothing really happens in this area, is running out?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131346	As I have said, we fully agree that there are those frustrations, and we share them in full, and that is right in the heart of the party, one might say. We would also very much like to contribute to pressing even more on the obligations of the Member States and, in particular, to putting pressure on them to comply with them. But I also think it is important to say that things should be separated from each other. Let us now work hard and put pressure on them, but not through this proposal. I also hear a fairly broad majority in the Folketing agree that we should put that pressure on, so I just think we should get started on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131417	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131418	It is true that many good and fine words are spoken in this Parliament, but this has been the case for many years. The SF's rapporteur said that it was also discussed in 2011 that was 10 years ago, wasn't it? We have a situation where the Danish prisons are filled, we have major challenges with overcrowding in prisons at the moment because of foreign inmates who do not come home and serve. There I would just like to hear: can it be that you still won't really use any new tools, here 10 years after you started the process that hasn't worked?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131507	Well, I can say that exactly this particular tool we will certainly not use, with we will do everything we can to find some areas where further pressure can be put. In fact, I think that the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Seligman, too. Morten Dahlin, was very clear about his approach and that of the Left, namely that there should be further pressure, and I actually heard the government and the Social Democrats say that they were also ready to do more about it. So I also think we should take the broad majority and then just give it the maximum. the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and put pressure on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131536	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131553	Thank you. With this resolution, DF will suspend the payment of child and youth benefits to EU citizens from Member States who do not accept their own citizens convicted of crime. In New Citizens we agree that, for example, Romania must, of course, meet the requirement to take its own citizens home to serve in the country of origin if they commit crime in Denmark. We doubt that it will have the great effect of stopping the payment of child and youth benefits to law-abiding Romanians who work in Denmark. But we have the basic view that the right to public support must be linked to Danish citizenship. Foreigners in Denmark must support themselves. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131638	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. And so we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503131714	Thank you for the debate on this proposal. It's an attempt to rethink the Danish People's Party's If you do not do as we have been asking you for so many years now, then it has consequences for your country's citizens, just as it has for the Danish prison system. I can only say, unfortunately, that it seems that it is only New Citizens' Day and, by the way, thank you for what will support this proposal as it stands right now. However, what I have heard, after all, is that there is a general feeling that more pressure must be put on countries to take their own citizens back. On some points, as I consider to be the case, the Minister thinks that something has happened. For example, according to the Minister, Romania should no longer have any challenges with the quality of their prison places, which has meant that citizens could not be sent back. Nevertheless, if we look at the figures, it is a huge expense. In other words, it is a three-digit sum of millions that we spend that there are still foreign nationals in Danish prisons who could actually be sent home, plus that we now have an overcrowding, that is, space problems, in our prisons. In some places there is a capacity utilisation rate of 100 per cent, 105 per cent, and if you peel some refurbishings, it may be a much higher stocking density than 100 per cent. So I think there is reason for us to take this seriously, for us to take this issue seriously, and to do much more to ensure that the countries concerned take their own citizens back, in other words put pressure on them. After all, we in the Danish People's Party feel that it should not actually be so difficult. We can use some new tools, and we are not left with what we are proposing here: if we cannot return the criminal citizens of other EU countries as it should be normal practice, then we should not send the same country's citizens children's checks after they have been in Denmark for a shorter period. For these are the rules today: that if you have been in Denmark and worked here for a shorter period, you are entitled to receive a child's check. We think, moreover, that we can discuss the common sense of that is no secret, but when that is said, it is certainly a way to put pressure on other countries, that is, by stopping that traffic. We do not think it can be right that Denmark should be burdened with criminal citizens while, with a smile on our lips, sending money to that country in the form of a child's check. So something for something that's only fair. If we are to abide by the rules of taking some citizens back to Denmark, those countries must of course also take their citizens back to their countries. That is why we propose that until the conditions of the various countries are such that they again receive their own criminal citizens, it should at least be the case that they should not have children's cheques sent from Denmark either. What is, of course, behind this • we have been talking about it in today's debate is that we think it is a bad thing that we should be able to get away with being a member of the European Union and enjoy all the good things there while not complying with the common rules of the game. I was trying to have a dialogue with Mr. Kristian Hegaard of the Radicals on this very question. Perhaps not so much came of this, but basically, if you mean rules and framework agreements in this area, in terms of countries having to take their own citizens back, there should also be consequences when you do not. We cannot continue to be the EU's doll when other countries seem to do as they see fit. We sometimes have to quit and put our heels in and say, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Then there must be some reasonableness in this, we must put pressure on the other countries so that they comply with their part of the agreements, and that means that we can send their citizens back to the countries. As I said, it is also not the case that we can be in any doubt that at the moment, when we have a pressed prison system, it will ease considerably if the foreign nationals who are in our prisons are removed from Denmark and returned; then there will be room for many of the criminals who are waiting to be served today. And then we will also be able to say to Enhedslisten and SF, who are now and then worried about whether inmates are treated in the right way, that there is more space, so that a little better terms of service can be created, i.e. if that is what is wanted. But that requires us to do something, and that is what is on the table here today. So in addition to creating much-needed air in our prisons, staff resources will also be available for the remaining inmates, to whom the officers can then make an extra effort. So all around, I really think that this proposal is very well-founded. And if you don't want to support it... and I understand that a majority doesn't want to... you have to come up with something better. I have not heard that from today's platform; on the contrary, I have only heard that we continue to talk and talk about the need for more and that we have to do different things. But the thing is that we have practically the same problem in Denmark that we have always had under bourgeois governments and now under a social democratic government that made it an election number and made posters and all sorts of things that it was extremely important. That is why new thinking is needed. Give me some new thinking, government, when you don't want to support this. Unfortunately, I have not heard that today, but it may come all of a sudden; then we will look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503132310	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503132326	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503132348	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. The government agrees that there is reason to look at whether we are doing enough to ensure legal certainty for people who are sentenced to a detention or treatment sentence. As the authors also mention, criticism has been levelled at the area from the Institute for Human Rights and last month also from the National Audit Office, and that criticism is justified. Before going further, I would like to make a few comments on the background to the current rules on measures under the criminal code, such as the fact that at the time of the crime a person is erratic, for example. because of mental illness, cannot be punished. Instead, the courts can choose to take decisions on other measures, for example: placement or treatment. In both cases, these are so-called measures which are characterised by the fact that, unlike ordinary penalties, they are not intended to punish but are intended to treat and prevent. In the past it was the case that all measures were without time. Some 20 years ago, the Criminal Code Council was asked to examine the use of measures and the Criminal Code Council noted that the application of time-limited measures best matches the preventive and therapeutic considerations behind it. At the same time, however, the Council noted that, in some cases, measures taken against the background of less serious crime had been quite long without its being justified by the danger of the convicted person. Against this background, the rules were amended to establish the longest-term duration of measures. However, this shall not apply where the person concerned has committed a serious criminal offence, such as: serious violence, threats, arson or rape. Moreover, the prosecution has a general duty to ensure that a measure is not maintained for longer than necessary. This is how the law is constructed today. As I mentioned at the outset, criticism has been raised. Most recently, the National Audit Office has concluded that the authorities in the Ministry of Justice can do more to ensure that the measures of court psychiatric patients are not maintained longer than is very necessary. I think there is reason to look at this seriously. Among other things: That is why I have decided to continue the inter-ministerial working group that we have set up to analyse the whole area of the judiciary, and I expect the group to address some of the challenges identified by the National Audit Office, and I hope that the work can start as early as this autumn. At the same time, the Danish Health Authority looks at the challenges of court psychiatry in connection with the preparation of a 10-year plan for psychiatry at all. However, I am, of course, open to follow-up when the inter-ministerial working group has completed its work, to see whether there is a need to do something about material regulation in this area. Since the possibilities of imposing measures other than punishment are a key element of our criminal justice system, such a review should probably be anchored in the Criminal Code Council. As has already been mentioned, the Council has dealt with the issue in the past, which one might say would also be a reason why it might be obvious to ask them to do it again. So, with these reservations, the government can support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503132742	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503132748	I am actually very pleased that the Minister will do something. I hope that what the Minister is saying is that he will ask the Criminal Code Council to look at this. I would like to give the Minister an example of one of the absurdities here, which the Supreme Court has actually taken a position on. It is a man who drives a drunk driving on his moped twice and gets a warrant. He hasn't before and he hasn't after driving drunk driving, he's going into treatment, and he's even voluntarily installing an alkolås in his car. Even so, he is granted an extension of his treatment sentence without having committed any new crime. Does the Minister think that this is proportional, that is to say that it is simply reasonable? Doesn't it sound like something's completely wrong? The Supreme Court has actually decided on this. It is not a question of whether the man is dangerous, it is a question of judging that he may need treatment, but the general psychiatry could take care of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503132852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503132854	That is to say, where proportionality should be in place here, is not between the crime that has taken place and the length of the measure. Where proportionality is required is between the risk of new crime and the length of the measure. It is about the fact that the aim is not to punish, but the aim is to ensure that we are, hopefully, treated so that, if I may say so, we are healthy in order to use that word now. I do not know the specific case, and that is why it is of course difficult to deal with it, but I assume that these are such situations which have helped to justify the fact that it has been said that it is unlimited in time, so that it does not apply to matters which are not large.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503132944	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503132944-2	I am pleased that the Minister actually states that we need to use treatment sentences where there is a risk of repeat crime or where the person is dangerous. The only problem is that what the Institute of Human Rights documents is that often the sentence is merely prolonged without new crime being committed. After all, it is very difficult to see what you are building an idea of repeat crime on, which is why it is going to be a de facto punishment of the mentally ill. That's how they experience it, so it's hard to get out of these treatment sentences, even if you haven't committed any new crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133024	It is also, as I recall, one of the criticisms made by the National Audit Office that the prosecution is not often enough to assess. On the other hand, it must also be borne in mind that, as I said, proportionality must be between the risk of new crime and the nature and length of the measure, which means that if you are in a treatment situation and the treatment is not completed, there may be a need to prolong it, but of course not without time and certainly not for minor offences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133050	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133054	Thank you. I will continue where my colleague left off. What I would like to ask is whether the Minister does not also agree that it is crucial for the type of people involved here that if you have a need for treatment that is, as it were, necessary, it will take place before you necessarily commit crime or get a treatment sentence. Well, that's also the essence of this, and that's why it's relevant to look at the proportionality of this. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister does not agree with that particular point, that is to say that we have to have treatment before, so that it is crucial and not just late and then, so to speak, the judgment itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133135	It almost goes without saying that the goal must be for people who need help to receive the help they need from the mentally ill and, moreover, from the sick. I also believe that we all know that psychiatry is challenged, but it goes without saying that it is best if you discover mental illness and have it treated before it even develops into something that might remind you of crime. That's how I understood the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133202	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133203	However, if it goes without saying that you have to receive treatment regardless of what you have to do when you have a need for treatment, then it is appropriate to look at what the punishment that is due to you when you get a treatment, that is also what my colleague asked about before. If you did not have a need for treatment and were not mentally ill, you would have received the same penalty. It is, of course, the proportionality that is important. So can the Minister not see that this is also what is important in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133237	No, actually, I think that right here, we might miss each other. For the proportionality assessment to be carried out, it shall not be between the crime committed and the length of the measure. In other words, small circumstances must not, of course, lead to time-limited measures, but proportionality must be between the risk of new crime and the nature and length of the measure. It is because we say that when people are erratic, they should not be punished, they should be helped. After all, we cannot know in advance how long the aid will take until we are sure that we will counter new crime. So the proportionality balance is probably a little different, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133317	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. That is how the rapporteur can begin. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133344	We have seen a great country and a great society. Imagine that people who commit crime but who have a need not to be put in prison, but actually to get help and treatment, get it to a large extent. That is a good thing, and that is why this is also about the aid and treatment that is in line with the needs that exist. It is therefore very good that the SF is taking up this proposal to look at an area where it is clear that some people feel that they are getting stuck in the system and where the treatment in their experience is going to appear as an unproportional punishment. This must be taken very seriously and we take it very seriously. That is why we are also pleased with the Minister for Justice's statement to work on this problem area. There are, of course, some people who see this as a violent violation of their own freedoms and their own borders, and we must take this seriously. So I think it's a good idea to re-elucidate this area. The work is being set in motion, as the Minister for Justice explained. And then we will also have a basis for discussing whether there is a real need to go further than that. In those words, we support the motion for a resolution with the conditions set out by the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133524	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133530	I would also like to thank the Socialist rapporteur for his approach. That means a lot, I think, to the people who are being subjected to these treatment sentences. Of course, we have to give treatment judgments, but there is something that suggests that we overuse it in Denmark. In other words, there has been a tenfold increase in the use of treatment sentences. There are now 4,200 people who are subject to one. In Sweden, which has a larger population, it is 1,800, and in Norway it is 215. Does the Socialist rapporteur not think that this suggests that there is something wrong in the Danish system and that we may maintain both a system which is straining the individual but which in fact also absorbs a lot of resources from those who really need qualified help?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133626	Maybe. However, if we have a higher number of treatment sentences in Denmark than in Sweden, it might as well be that it is because there are actually more people who get the help they need. And I actually think that's one of the things that's interesting to dive into more. Then, as Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt points out, I am in favour of the issue here, namely whether it is used disproportionately, so that it is excessive. This is one of the things we need to clarify, but the fact that there are more people who get a treatment judgment in this way compared with other countries is not necessarily negative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133706	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133708	Yeah, I think we have to say it's negative. For the Reichsaudit has just come up with a report which shows that it is simply sailing. The system we have set up is not working. They simply do not get the treatment and help they need, there is insufficient supervision, and judgments are extended longer than is good. That is the conclusion. So there's something wrong with our system, and I think the system is overloaded. But then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he thinks it is reasonable that, if you have 26 shoplifting on the back, you should continue to have a treatment sentence maintained, despite the fact that, for example, there is one. is not a repeat crime. It was a person who had an eating disorder and who had stolen a total of DKr 6,500. at the 26 thefts, and it had gone to food, which is probably about the eating disorder, which it might be good to get some help with. But is it reasonable to extend for several consecutive years a five-year treatment sentence, even if no new crime has been committed? Can the rapporteur not see that there is some proportionality to what is not entirely in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133827	Yes, I can easily see that, and what I said before did not indicate that I do not recognise that there are problems. I am also in agreement with what is stated in the studies that have been carried out. So there are massive problems, just as there are unfortunately massive problems in the rest of our psychiatric system. So that is not what my comment was about either. My comment was: if the system now worked, was it necessarily negative that more people were actually given a treatment sentence rather than another form of judgment? Not necessarily, but I fully agree that we have problems, and that is also why it is good to get work done on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133857	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503133917	Thank you for the floor, President. Proportionality between offence and sanction is an important discussion to have in here, and so is legal psychiatry. And I believe that, in the light of the speeches that have been made from up here, the dialogue that has been held with the proposer of the SF, we can see that there are some challenges that we are basically looking at equally here. But, of course, there must also be proportionality between what a challenge it is and what work it then sets in motion. And what the proposal says is that a Commission should be set up. Now we have heard from the Minister that the Minister wants to continue the work initiated by the previous government to analyse this problem and to examine it in depth, and then, on the basis of the studies, we can have some political discussions on what we can do. In view of this, we cannot support the proposal to set up a Commission, but we fully support the fact that this work is continuing in the Ministry and, moreover, in the inter-ministerial way. And then we will also take an active part in the discussions afterwards, where I just think, based on the short dialogue that has been going on so far, that a majority of the parties of the Folketing can gather, who see the same thing about some of the problems that exist in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134036	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. A brief remark from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134041	Thank you. I am also very pleased that the Left is supporting work in this area. I know it's a little nerd class, this proposal, but it's really, really important. I would like to know whether the rapporteur also thinks that there is a problem in seeing people who have maintained or prolonged their treatment when they have not committed repeat crimes during the five-year period when they were sentenced to their first treatment. Is it reasonable to extend it by two more years, or by two more years, as we also see in some cases, and sometimes nine years, without repeated crime? Does the rapporteur agree that we should reserve the treatment sentences and measures to where there is a danger of new crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134138	Thank you to the questioner. To that I would like to say three things. Well, first of all, we should not complain about making nerd proposals. The world and Denmark and the people's government need nerds. That is only positive, so it is certainly not something we must make a condescending expression. That something should be some nerdery, I only look at positively, and it's only good that the SF has done it. Secondly, of course, we support the work, and we do, because I think the Minister for Justice was told that it was launched in 2018, and there was the Left in government. So, of course, we have not changed our minds on that. We think it's a good job. So on the question from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt about whether the Left considers it problematic that there is the situation described by Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. And I would say that it may be, and because it may be, we think that the work that has been undertaken is important and we recognise that there may be some issues, for example. In relation to extension, which we must have looked at. But I do not want to stand here and stand by and say that it is always a problem. However, I would like to acknowledge that this may be a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134243	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134244	Thank you for that, but we are at least a step along the way. What does the Left really think about the Institute for Human Rights saying that current practice raises issues in relation to the principle of equal treatment, the prohibition of discrimination and the principle of proportionality? Isn't that a powerful argument for changing the system? I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134313	Well, the Left believes that the Institute for Human Rights's criticism gives rise to continuing the interdisciplinary work launched in 2018 and then, on the basis of it, discuss what changes might be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134325	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134350	Thank you to the SF for raising an important debate that deals with many people and that we should be aware that our system is working well enough for them, also to ensure that they do not get hurt in such a way that the victims suffer because our system does not work well enough. So with the sign that the Danish People's Party here has, namely that there is a very, very important consideration to take to the victims of crime in Denmark, we think there might be good reason in that we are looking into it more closely, i.e. whether this system works well enough and whether we can do something to make it work better. Our impression is that there are a whole lot of challenges in the system, which means that there are no places, that there is no follow-up, that there is a lack of shorter processing times in the assessment of many of these elements, and therefore there may be common sense in us getting it worked through more with the help of a committee or a commission, or whatever it may be that will get a closer look at where the challenges are and what we can do about them. If we look at the motion for a resolution here, there are some points in which we stumble a little bit over whether we have got it completely wrong or perhaps only a little at the heart of it. For example, there is a passage in which it is written that in November 2019 the Institute for Human Rights presented the report, which we know, and that it can be read that the number of citizens convicted in the form of these placement and treatment sentences has increased significantly. And you then conclude that this has happened in a period when there is no indication that mentally ill people have become more criminal. There you might well, if you are now the devil's lawyer and we should probably also be a little bit in relation to suggestions here in the Danish Parliament when it is concluded, as is done here, that where there has been nothing that suggests that mentally ill people have become more criminal, discuss whether it is right. Well, is that SF's conclusion here? That's how I sense it's from the comments. But I guess we don't know if this is the case, and I guess it's purely guesswork, whether it's the way you write here, so there's no indication that mentally ill people have become more criminal. In other words, it might be that the wording that has been chosen here says that there are too few places in the psychiatry today and that, therefore, one chooses to reject people at the door or print them out too quickly, and that means that psychotic people are running too much for themselves, and that the natural consequence may be that they are doing more crime, so that there is actually more crime than in the past, for some other reasons than one might immediately want, but that, whatever it is, there is more crime than in the past. It could actually be that way. So I think that the comments in this motion for a resolution are a little too harsh. There is also another place where it is written: "Much suggests that they are sentenced to special measures under the criminal code due to a lack of access to treatment in general and social psychiatry." Again it is: • Very suggestive. I mean, is that right? Do we think so? Does the SF think so? In any case, it is not certain that it is factually justified that you have it that way. Then there is another place I noticed here, where it is written: "The arrestees are being detained and the treatment sentenced are at risk of detention. In addition, there is the risk of concealed coercion, since the convicted person may experience pressure to submit to treatment to ease his sentence. So there is talk of hidden coercion. But is it really not fine enough and that is the question I am asking the rapporteur: is there pressure being put on people to take care of themselves, in other words, rather than avoiding it and going to prison without treatment? If we look at some of the challenges that are among some of the criminals that we see on the street today, it is precisely that they have not received the treatment because there has been too little time while they were in prison because we are operating with some relatively short sentences in Denmark today to train them in and learn the social skills that mean they can get by in society and get a job and get an education etc. etc. Moreover, it is also one of the conclusions that we sometimes see when wise people look into this, in other words that the time you have in prison can actually be used wisely to learn social skills so that you do not get out and create new crime. And that is something that is missing from this motion for a resolution on that point. But, as I have said, that is actually more the comments, that is to say the comments on the proposal itself, to which I am a little the devil's lawyer, than the very intention that we should examine it further and that we should see whether we can do things better in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134906	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503134911	Thank you for that, and thank you for the fact that, despite the comments made, the Danish People's Party nevertheless supports the fact that we have to look at this. The comments I have to say have been made from the report by the Institute for Human Rights, and they have thus examined a great deal of judgments, so we know quite a lot about the consequences of it. Mr. Peter Skaarup that it is a problem that 10%. of the treatment sentences given are given for shoplifting? It's something like that for sir. Peter Skaarup and I would trigger a fine, but here it gives a five-year measure which, in principle, can also be seen as examples, can be extended over and over again without any new crime being committed. Isn't that a challenge for the citizen who's gonna be exposed to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135011	It is very good to clarify whether it is the SF who means these things in the remarks or whether it is the Institute for Human Rights. But whether it is the SF, or whether it is the Institute of Human Rights, it seems that you have some kind of bias in relation to some of these issues, where you might wish you were more clear in the spit and, for example, in the spit. recognised that it could in fact be that there was more crimes committed by the mentally ill for various reasons, and that there could be no need to close one's eyes to that. When it comes to shoplifting, I should not be able to say what might be the reason why you end up there, but we do have some criminals who are mentally ill and are very difficult to reason with both crime and other conditions. And I could imagine that's why some people have committed large-scale shoplifting that will end up in this system. But that is not to say that they should stay there, and that is not to say that they should actually have been fined, but to say that we must ensure together that we can move forward in respect of the fact that there are also some shop owners who are deeply marred and think it is deeply wrong that they are constantly stealing their things without being able to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135135	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135137	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup, in spite of everything, to indicate that it can be unproportional when a court order is extended, a measure based on the fact that no new crime has been committed. That is exactly what the proposal here is about, namely that there must be more proportionality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135200	This may not be proportionate, but it may also be that you have the best intentions to ensure that they are treated. I mean, if you, for example... If paedophiles are taken, we have a group that accepts treatment, and that is fine, but then there is also a group that refuses to face it and refuses to accept treatment. I think I will help to extend their stay and, by the way, use some other tools, medical castration, as we have suggested in the Folketing, to ensure that they do not create new crime. I actually believe that there are the best intentions in relation to this, but the question is just whether it works in the long run and whether there are enough resources in the system to ensure that it will work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135243	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135328	Thank you very much for the floor, President. And thank you to the Socialist People's Party for focusing on the proportionality of criminal offences and sanctions in detention and treatment sentences. Because I think this is one of the most neglected issues in the legal field at all, even if it does not draw headlines such as higher penalties and other things that sound better in the mouth do. Because it must be the case in a rule of law that equal crimes are punished equally, that you get the same punishment for committed crime, whether you have a mental challenge or you do not have a mental challenge. In other words, equality before the law also applies to mental illness. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you have three months' imprisonment for violence, why should you have a longer detention sentence if you commit the same crime as the mentally exposed person? Or why punish longer because you get treatment when we agree that if you are demanding treatment, you should have had that treatment no matter what. In other words, if your psychic vulnerability has not been addressed in time, you risk a longer sentence if you commit crime as a treatment-intensive person. At the same time, we also see from these measures that there is an extension, even sometimes without new crime, and that would not have happened in a real prison unless new crime had been committed in the meantime. That is why it is absolutely essential to examine and look at the proportionality of these judgments in order to ensure the fundamental principle of equal treatment of crimes. That is why the Radical Left supports the SF's proposal and we are open to further investigation. I should like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that the same applies to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135557	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, it is noted. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And so I welcome the next rapporteur, who comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Mads Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135624	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the SF for the suggestion. We also recognise that this is a subject that needs to be examined in greater detail. However, we are in doubt whether this increase in the number of sentenced people to treatment, as stated in the background material, is due to a lack of place in the general and treatment psychiatry, or perhaps more is a sign that in these 40 years we have become wiser in this area and are using treatment sentences for people who have mental illness instead of just throwing them into jail. Then we also look into a time when, among other things, the government... has announced an upcoming 10-year psychiatry plan to be discussed and where there may well also be some things that are flowing with the psychiatry and some experience from there. In fact, we think it is important to focus on this, and we would also like to call on the government to include this in the negotiations on criminal justice. We also heard the Minister for Justice talking about continuing the work of this inter-ministerial working group, and of course we think that is a very good idea. But let us start now with the work of this working group and the further discussions before we begin to launch a large chrome-plated Commission. That is why we cannot support the proposal, but of course we fully support the intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135738	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503135757	Thank you to the SF for this motion for a resolution. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to set up a Commission on the proportionality of criminal offences and penalties in the event of detention and proceedings. Let me begin by stating that we in the New Citizens' Party in general are sceptical about setting up commissions. All too often, commissions and investigations end up as pickles to give citizens the impression that politicians take a given matter seriously, with no other significant result than to end up as another expense for Danish taxpayers. However, if we are positive about the present resolution, this is because the proposal is about some of the weakest citizens in our society • Danes who live as homeless people, who are abusers or who have mental illness; people who are far too much criminalised and hunted rather than getting the support and help they deserve. In Denmark, we have a cultural and value-related community that is built up through generations, a community that binds us together as Danes. Here it is the community of values and civil society that encourages us to help the sick, the elderly and the most vulnerable citizens; it is not the state, on the contrary. All too often we see the state failing when it comes to the weakest in our society. Those people who most need a helping hand to get on their feet or just get through everyday life are whipped around the system, criminalised or generally subjected to treatment that is not worthy of our community of values. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is, according to the authors, to arrive at a model whereby special measures are applied exclusively in cases of dangerous crime, which would normally lead to prison sentences, and where, moreover, the special measures do not have a duration significantly longer than the duration of a prison sentence. New citizens think criminals should be punished. If you are a foreign national in Denmark, you have to be shown consistently and after the first sentence, and if you commit crime as a Dane, then you have to have a punishment that matches the genes you have caused your victims. In general terms, we believe that too few criminal foreigners are being expelled and that the penalties for, among other things, those for whom they are responsible are being applied. Personally dangerous crime is far too low in Denmark. However, in the interests of security and security in our society, we must take care of each other, take care of our fellow citizens before it reaches that point. We must act preventively and ensure that children do not grow up with neglect and failure in institutions, in foster homes or in their own homes without intervention. As a society, we must step in and help the Danes who live on the edge of society and who have no help from networks or family. No one should be lost, forgotten or left behind in a life where crime is the last resort. And if you have only reached the point where crimes such as theft or forced entry pay for the next fix, then of course a treatment or placement sentence must be aimed at rehabilitation. Danes convicted of crime must be helped as much as possible to a law-abiding life, regardless of whether they receive a prison, treatment or placement sentence. If we fail to fulfil this task, it will undoubtedly create a more stunted society with far more victims. We can't risk that. Denmark is a society where we must also be able to ensure in the future that the Danes who need the most help receive it. This is particularly true of Danes who are homeless, abusers or have mental disorders and who end up in crime. Of course, they should not be penalised more severely or kept in the system much longer than the criminal who has committed crimes without any influence and deliberately. That is why we support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503140152	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers, and this is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503140212	Thank you very much to everyone in this Chamber for recognizing this issue. That makes me genuinely happy, and I am actually also positively surprised. It is, of course, a rather nerdy debate, as I said, and it is too rare, I think, that we have the opportunity to discuss this sort of thing with each other. So it has actually been a very positive surprise to myself that we have been able to have this good debate about it. Then I would also like to thank the Minister for recognising the issue and for actually wanting to do something about it. I do not have any mistrust of the Minister, but my concern may be whether we are going to achieve exactly what is the concern in this resolution, namely that we use treatment sentences indiscriminately, also for small crimes, and maintain them for too long. As I said, I do not have any mistrust of the Minister, but there is just a prehistory in which you can see that nothing really happens in this area. After all, attempts were made to limit the length of the measures in 2000. There were time-limited sentences, and then this regime was introduced with 5-year-old and 2-year-old extensions. And it certainly has not happened that it has slowed down the use of this very much. So that is the one thing that worries me a little. The other thing is that this problem has been described very many times. The Institute for Human Rights conducted their first study in 2006. Now they made one again in 2019. But also the Danish Psychiatric Society has problematized this, and most recently we have the report from the Danish National Audit Office from April. So there have been many red warning lights, as I see it, and I do not think there has been a political will to change this, because it is also about taking responsibility for what happens if you change something here. I think it may have been a hot political potato, and that is why nothing has happened. But now I hope that there is a prospect that we will get on with this. I also think, of course, that part of the problem is that some people who have been exposed to this do not have a voice to shout. It is less developed, it is people with mental disorders, where many are really bad, and some do not actually dare say anything because they fear another extension and more coercion. I am quite sure that it affects people's lives enormously for years to be subject to these measures, and in practice it can mean that you risk being reinstated without even being able to do anything about it. You're actually less protected in this area than in the Psychiatry Act, where you actually have some rights. And not only is there a risk of having a measure that could last 10, 12 years, as soon as it is lifted, the criminal record will then start ticking. It is then five years on top of which you, for example. It's gonna be hard to get a job. There are people who have written to me about that. There was at one time a man who in depression had committed vandalism on some tombstones. That was many years ago, so it is not the recent case that we are seeing. But he got upstairs fast. He had previously held a leadership position in the public system, but could not get a job again at all because of a depression he had at one point where he had done something stupid. It's really hard, I think, for these people who already have an extra extra time. Then I also think there is something unreasonable about the fact that conditions which would, in principle, give a fine of DKK 4-6,000. for the rest of us, or perhaps a very, very short prison sentence for people who commit the same offence, triggers measures for this group of people for years. So there's something a little wrong with that. There were, for example, the person who was sentenced to 26 thefts worth a total of DKr 6,500. As I told you before, the thefts were mainly of food because the person had an eating disorder. Normally it wouldn't be able to trigger years of punishment in the real world. And we must bear in mind that what has to give a measure is, of course, the risk of repeat crime, not whether or not the necessary treatment, which has also been mentioned by several people here today, can be obtained, because that is actually not the argument when applying this type of sentence. Then there's also the guy who got a treatment sentence for twice driving a drunk on a moped. He went into treatment, he voluntarily installed an alcohol lock on the car, and he became subject to the municipality's requirement to live in a certain place and work in a certain way. The judgment was extended, despite the fact that he had not since the judgment six years ago committed a new drunk driving. Then the man who got into a fight and beat his friend, who had never done that kind of violence before, never again practiced that kind of violence. He was sentenced to five years and then it was extended once more, and it was extended once more, but when you wanted to extend it the third time, and then again add two years, the court fortunately said no, but it turned into nine years for something that would probably be charged to 30 days. And the sentence was extended without any new crime being committed. I therefore think that this is out of proportion, and I think that the Institute for Human Rights, with its report, shows that it raises problems with regard to the principle of equal treatment, the principle of proportionality and the prohibition of discrimination. It is not uncommon, of course, when the judgments are extended, for reasons of extending them, to refer to the fact that it is because one fears that one cannot receive the necessary treatment in general psychiatry, but it is just not a justification that holds when one has to give a judgment on measures that is central to committing new crime. That way, the use of this is going to get out of hand. I am not saying that we should act as if nothing were to happen when a person who is suffering from mental illness or development is committing crime, but the penalty must also be a little more targeted at the offence, including when it comes to these people. Some judgments must certainly be extended because there is a fear that new crimes will be committed, and I do not argue that we should not give treatment sentences. However, we must ensure that they are given to the right people, and that it does not become unreasonable and absorb precious resources in our judicial psychiatry resources that we could use on some of the people who have the most need, and also some of the people who are very dangerous and for whom we need to make a special effort. After all, we can see from the report by the Reichsaudit that we do not get the treatment we need, that we do not have the necessary supervision, that there is no follow-up and that, in many situations, an extension of a measure has been granted without it being repealed. So there are a lot of problems in this area, and that's also why we thought it would be good for a commission to get this coal digging and think about creating a new system. But it is good that the Minister has set up some committees. It's also really good that something happens. I think there is something wrong when the number of measures has increased tenfold to 4,200 people. By comparison, we have a figure from Norway that is perhaps at the low end of 215, which is exposed to the same, while Sweden has something less than half of what Denmark has, despite having a larger population. At any rate, I think it suggests that there is something in this system that is biased and that we really need to get a closer look at. So it's good that it's done. Finally, I would like to make a comment on some of what Mr. Kristian Hegaard said that the Institute for Human Rights can actually see that many of these people end up being dangerous and getting very far out because the general psychiatry does not work and, as it does not work, it is then used again to maintain the measures for a long time because one does not believe that they can get the necessary treatment in the ordinary system. The average doomed person is actually a single man of 40 years, so it takes a long time for that person to become so ill that it ends up getting a judgment there we have had many opportunities to intervene and do something. 50% of those who receive a measure have an abuse, and 50 per cent. have been placed, so there really is something we can do better here. It is a declaration of failure that people become criminals because they are ill and because we help them too badly. I think that is what I want to say today, and that is also what I can say. Maybe you can feel that I'm passionate about this subject. However, I would like to thank the Minister again. I look forward to seeing what comes out of the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141232	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141237	Thank you for that, and once again thank you to the SF for taking this up. When we support it, it is not least because of what I said before. Of course, we really believe that criminals who commit crimes should be punished in line with the crime they have committed. In other words, the victim should not suffer any more because there is a person who has a mental illness or an abuse if the victim has been raped, has been subjected to violence, etc., but with regard to the person who then has an abuse which has a mental disorder, it must never be the case that we have a system in which it is the mental illness or abuse in itself that is criminalised. And that is what one gets a little bit of, that is, keeping people in these measures as long as they have not come out of their abuse, whether they are pills, drugs, alcohol, or whatever it may be, or if their mental illness is not at a level where one thinks they are now sufficiently normal. We have somehow moved into a direction where there is less and less room for those crooked existences, the curly brains, those who have always been there, and where it is so infinitely easy to just put them under some control in the state. And we just don't believe that's the solution for these people. So I hope that in the SF and the government, and who will now sit at the table end here, the focus will be that it should never be that it is the mental illness or abuse that is punished, but that it is the real deed, and that it should then of course be a what to say, voluntary effort for the individual to get out of, for example, an abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141409	I think, in fact, that we are really in agreement here, that this has gone too far, that it is de facto a criminalisation of mental illness or a reduction in development. It is clear that, in the first place, it is crime that leads to someone being given a measure, but if you extend the measure solely on the grounds that he has an abuse or mental illness, and not because you think that new crime will be committed, then it goes too far. And that is what the Institute for Human Rights can document, and I think that is a problem. That is why we need to do something about it, both for the sake of the individual, but also because I believe that this places some resources in the psychiatry of justice, and that is a problem for everyone else who needs the psychiatry of justice. There's a lot of pressure on that, by the way, there's also on general psychiatry, but we have to make sure that people get help in the right places, and the best thing would be to give these people help. Think that the average person is 40 years old. How many times before then have we had the opportunity to help this human being avoid crime? I find that thought-provoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141521	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141523	When the rapporteur himself mentions, among other things: children who, as adults, live with the failures that are often associated with it, that they are placed either because they have been placed on the basis of some general conditions in the family in which they belong biologically, or because institutions and foster families etc. We have failed to see what the rapporteur and the SF think about the negotiations currently under way. Is going on around the child's law, I think they call it, i.e. this outrage to have to put even more children instead of more going in and preventing and ensuring that families work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141611	Now it's not my specialty with children, but it's with the social rapporteur at the SF. But if I remember correctly, she isn't very excited that we just put a lot more children, also because experience is sometimes bad. It would be better if the family were perhaps supported at a very, much earlier time, so that they were not at risk of being exposed. Because there is no doubt that it is a huge loss for a child, no matter what mother or father is, to completely lose touch with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141645	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141649	Thank you. As I said, we think it is a good thing that a little more attention is being paid to this issue, but I must also say that when I read some of the things that have been written in the motion for a resolution and are also said here from the platform, I can be a little concerned that treatment should not last longer than the corresponding prison sentence, which would be measured out of a crime perspective. The reason for this is that there may be treatment that some of these people need to receive in order that they do not cause harm to other people when they come from that treatment. And if the treatment goes beyond the time it would take otherwise to be in prison, then maybe sometimes it is the price of avoiding them from doing new crime, because some of them are so sick and so out of order that they can make new crime if they were just let out. Is the SF aware that there is a problem here if you just compare with ordinary crime and let people out, even if they actually benefit from being in a treatment that makes them get away from their crime and away from their disease?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141755	Now we have to hold on to why it is that a measure is passed. This is done in order to avoid danger, or to prevent it from leading to repeat crime, and treatment is, of course, a means of doing so. And that is what the National Audit Office has pointed out: it does not work at all, we do not do it at all well enough, we let these people sail, and then often treatment becomes a justification for extending the measure. And that is what is a huge, huge problem, because it is not even the crime of repetition that justifies it, but it is the treatment. I can easily see that there are some people who can benefit from treatment, but then you have to do it in general psychiatry. You cannot have a system which, like that, must ensure that we avoid repeat crime, but where the hidden motive is only to ensure treatment. So we are now in general psychiatry, because if they are no longer a danger to anyone and they do not commit new crime, then we simply cannot justify it by maintaining a new measure or an extension.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141906	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503141908	It's just where we can then agree that the roads might split up. We are therefore in favour of looking into this and of finding out how to create a system that will correct the things that the Reichsaudit has said for good reasons is not working. But what we do not want to do is perhaps the model referred to in the motion for a resolution. We are talking about a model whereby special measures are applied only in cases of dangerous crime, which generally lead to prison sentences, and in addition, special measures do not have a duration which is substantially longer than the duration of a prison sentence. It is therefore only that we say that if it is now the case that the person is a danger and the only option is that the other does not work. After all, it is better to keep the treatment that does not create new crime than to let people out, then they do new crime and do the 50th shoplifting right after, even if you really wanted to avoid it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503142011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503142012	Perhaps I would question a little bit that if you do a shoplifting, you are necessarily a danger to all sorts of others. The risk of repeat crime is more worrying here, but we also have it with a very, very large number of people who have not received a measure. If they do shoplifting on shoplifting, it certainly doesn't have the same consequences at all. I feel a little sorry for someone with an eating disorder who's out and wants to do shoplifting and steal food that probably has some connection to the eating disorder. Is it then a measure that should be allowed to be extended over and over again? I think that is wrong, it is out of proportion, and we must be able to do it differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503142103	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503142133	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503142148	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. The Conservative People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution called B 216, as the President rightly said, to reduce corporate tax by 1 percentage point from 22 to 21 per cent. in 2021 and then gradually lower it to 19 per cent. Towards 2025. In January, we dealt with a similar proposal, the one called B 94, tabled by the Liberal Alliance, on the reduction of corporation tax by 1 percentage point in 2021. So you can say that this is what you call it an easy policy of overbiding, but it gives reason to state once again what the government thinks about corporate tax, namely that it is both reasonable and reasonable and has also found a reasonable level. After all, the company tax is paid by the companies that have generated profits in Denmark. The tax ensures that value created in Denmark is also taxed in this country, even if the companies are wholly or partly foreign owned. At the same time, corporate tax ensures that companies whose profits are based, inter alia, on: Our infrastructure and, indeed, our well-educated workforce also contribute to its financing and to the financing of our welfare societies. Finally, corporate tax ensures the taxation of the extraordinary returns of some companies, for example. to use our common social resources in the form of hydrocarbon extraction in the North Sea, as we know it, and also fishing in Danish waters. We must ensure that corporate tax does not, of course, impair the competitive environment of our companies vis-à-vis the companies in our neighbouring countries. The rate should therefore not differ substantially from the average in the rest of Europe, and it does not in fact. I believe that the current level of corporate tax also has a fine balance in this regard. The proposal to reduce corporate tax is justified, inter alia, by: It will help to increase growth on the other side of the covid-19 crisis. There should be no doubt whatsoever that the covid-19 has been and continues to be a major challenge for the Danish economy. After all, here in the Danish Parliament and by a broad majority, we have implemented what can be said to be historically large aid packages for the business community, and of course the government is focusing on the need to support the economy in this difficult time we are in. We have, together with good parties to the agreement, among other things. More than 2.5 billion have been allocated. kr. (i) a temporary increase in the deduction of expenditure on research and development by firms and 10 billion for research and development; kr. to a recapitalisation fund, as it is called, to help keep hands on needy companies. In addition to this, the many billions we have earmarked for, for example. pay compensation and compensation for fixed costs and lost turnover, and we have also allowed companies to postpone their payment of VAT, taxes and charges in order to strengthen their liquidity. Only last week we adopted another proposal involving a very, very large amount of billions in this context. The financial aid packages have ensured that just over 80 000 Danes have been able to be kept in employment by 2020 and have thus been able to hold Christmas as employees and not as unemployed. The aid packages will also keep their hands on demand in the near future, and they are, as I said and as previously debated in this Chamber, expected to secure around 65,000 jobs by 2021 and again by 2020 45,000 jobs. In comparison, a reduction in corporation tax by 1 percentage point is estimated to give an employment effect of approx. 300 full-time jobs. As a society, we have already invested billions of kroner in holding hands under Danish business and Danish jobs. That is not to say that we cannot do more, but tax cuts are by their very nature not free of charge. The Ministry of Taxation estimates that a reduction of corporation tax to 19 per cent. will result in an immediate reduction in revenue of 8.2 billion. kr. The annual financing requirement will be approx. 4.5 billion kr. For example, it will leave less money for investment in education, infrastructure and green conversion, and it will reduce the opportunities to support the efforts of companies in, for example, the United Kingdom. the question of research and development, as we have chosen to do. It will also mean that we can afford fewer hands and heads to take care of our sick, young and elderly and to ensure our at least a good and safe everyday life while Dad and Mom work. That is why, in the view of the government, what may be heard is a skewed priority. Covid-19 has stressed how dependent we are on each other and how strong our community has been in ensuring that, hopefully, our welfare society can get through the crisis that we are facing. Crisis policy is political choice. This crisis has shown this, and it is often in crises that the differences in Danish politics are seen. The government has clearly chosen to hold hands under our jobs, our research and our green transition, and, as I hope it has now emerged, the government cannot support the resolution to reduce corporate tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503142750	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503142756	Thank you very much for your contribution. The Minister of Taxation rejects our proposal to reduce corporate tax. I understand perfectly well that the tax minister thinks that there should be some money in the Treasury. We think so too. The tax minister may have a slightly greater preference for getting money in the treasury than the Conservative People's Party does, but of course we agree that some money needs to be put in the treasury and that the budget needs to be linked. But even if you are in favour of a great deal of money being put in the Treasury, as the tax minister is, could you not make a tax reform that reduced corporate tax and raised some other taxes that were less harmful to the Danish economy? For corporation tax is one of the taxes that most hampers the growth of Danish society, and the tax minister himself has put forward a calculation here, which shows that all groups in society would benefit from lowering corporate tax. The cash benefits recipients would get 600 kroner. more and the benefit recipients would get 1,000 DKK. more a year, and it is, after all, good for everyone if Denmark becomes a richer society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503142905	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503142907	If everything was so good, it's just weird that the previous government didn't choose to do it either. That's enough because if you do, you're gonna have to spend money. The Conservative People's Party owes it here to say where they there more than 4 billion. kr., which this project will cost, must come from. I think the Danes owe that to them. This isn't a free round. You can easily do all sorts of thousand-year calculations, but on the bottom line is just that if you're moving on with this project, that money has to be found, and you have to point to that, that is where they're supposed to come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503142943	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503142944	We have already pointed this out because, as the Minister of Taxation knows, because he has of course read the draft budget of the Conservative People's Party, we have made a very detailed presentation of how it could be financed. This can of course be done in many different ways, but we have put forward a very concrete proposal. I mean, like... Green taxes could be raised more; then you could contribute to the green transition and at the same time make Denmark a richer country because you lowered corporate tax. Is it not a better model than the taxation that we have today, which makes Denmark poorer and does not contribute enough to a green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143020	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143022	Now that we are on the financing side, the reason why I am asking is that I would like to hear what is meant when it says that tax relief, among other things. can be financed through labour market reforms. That is what the proposal says. That's why I just wanted it to be said what it was all about. I could imagine what it would be if you knew the Conservatives. It could be a saving in cash benefits or a reduction in the level of benefits, early retirement, cash benefits and such things. It's usually on the dining slip when you listen to the Conservative People's Party. But that can be explained when you come up and have to justify the proposal later in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143058	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143101	Thank you. I have two questions. The first is: Does the Minister believe that it was wrong for the then SRSF government to lower corporate tax then? My second question concerns the fact that the Minister of Taxation says that there must not be too much tension between us and the other countries with which we are comparing ourselves. Sweden has a lower corporation tax than we have. And then there is Germany, Britain and so on. What's that buckle? When are we gonna have to react to this? After all, there are a large number of countries out there that have also planned further reductions in corporate tax. So how big is the buckle we're talking about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143141	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143142	The answer to the first one is no. No, it wasn't, because of course it had to be seen in a context. It was precisely about ensuring that Danish industry could, of course, maintain a competitive power, and of course that balance must always be followed. Why? This is important for Danish jobs. Are there other things besides corporate taxation that determine the competitiveness and capacity of our business community to attract growth and employment? Yes, of course there is, for example, the possibility of investing in research and development, where we have set aside a great many billions of now, plus the things we have done together in order to get business, jobs and employees out on the other side of this terrible crisis. So there are a lot of things that help to hold hands under Danish business and thus help to support them in the competition for growth and employment that they are in every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143238	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143240	Thank you. I understand that there is limited time to reply. The second part is the question was what the span should be. In other words, the Minister himself said that we will have to keep up if the other countries go further. And then I'm gonna ask you how big that spread is. The minister himself said that we have to move on at some point, and then I just ask what the percentage is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143258	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143300	That is what I was trying to say, i.e. that the tension cannot simply be measured as a comparison of the percentages. It is clear that when it gets too wrong, there is a challenge, but right now it is basically also about supporting the competitiveness of the Danish business community, and that is what we have done now. For example, we have made a green tax reform which has ensured that by 2025 there will be approx. 6 billion kr. In this context, it is important to stress the importance of the role of the European Investment Bank and the role of the European Investment Bank in the process of economic and monetary union. So you can't put it up percentage. The overall competitiveness of the Danish business community is what this element also needs to be included in the balancing of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143337	Thank you, Minister. There are no further comments to the Minister. The next rapporteur is Troels Ravn of the Socialists, who is allowed to stay clear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143401	Thank you for the floor. The Conservative People's Party wants corporate tax to be reduced from 22 to 21 per cent. in 2021 and then gradually reduced to 19 per cent. in 2025. And the proposal is motivated as a helping hand to the business community in the wake of the corona crisis. In the Social Democratic Party, we fully agree that there must be a good framework for companies. We also have a strong focus on supporting the economy, as well as Danish companies and jobs in this severe coronatide. Together with the parties of the Folketing and the social partners, we have already undertaken a historic fiscal effort which has mitigated the economic downturn, the increase in the number of unemployed and bankruptcies. There are, among other things: EUR 35 billion paid out; kr. in compensation from the large compensation schemes and initiated initiatives to support corporate liquidity for a total of 670 billion. kr. During the period 2020-2022, a total of 135 billion is activated. kr. to support economic activity. According to the Ministry of Finance, fiscal efforts are estimated to hold hands below approx. 35,000 jobs in 2021. We have, therefore, invested a large amount of billions in holding hands under Danish business and Danish jobs with great effect. Targeted reductions have also been made in order to strengthen the framework conditions of companies. For example: the government and a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, including the Conservative People's Party, have concluded an agreement on a green tax reform which temporarily increases the deduction of corporate research and experimental expenditure. At the same time, the green tax reform provides an incentive for companies to invest in a sustainable conversion of production through an increased de minimis limit for immediate depreciation of DKK 30,000. as well as an investment window up to 2022 with an increased depreciation basis on certain operating resources. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that corporate tax is both a sensible and reasonable tax that is at a reasonable level. We must, of course, be aware that the rate does not differ too much from the rate in the countries with which our companies compete, and that is not the case today, when the Danish rate is around the average in the European Union. At the same time, the proposal involves an annual financing requirement of 4.1 billion. kr. It is for the Social Democratic Party to see a very large printout and especially in relation to the expected employment effect, and it will reduce the opportunities to invest in, for example. welfare and green conversion. In addition, the proposal for funding by the authors is therefore somewhat unclear. Labour market reforms are identified without any particular specification. If this is to mean the Conservatives' proposal to roll back the right to early retirement, then we in the Social Democrats think that this is a skewed priority. The worn-out should not again pay the highest price for the crisis, as they de facto did with the abolition of the post-retirement wage in the wake of the financial crisis. In addition, reference is made to Conservative Finance Act; however, only 1.3 billion have been assigned here. kr. in financing to reduce corporate tax from 22 to 21 per cent. And in addition, the main source of funding in the project is the central reserves set aside by the government's financial bill, and these reserves have already been committed by the government and the parties in the final agreement. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143757	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143800	I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur recognises that, when tax is reduced, wages are increasing for example. a LO worker and for a public employee, a nurse, a teacher and for a teacher.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143816	That is absolutely correct, but it still means that corporation tax and a reduction must be financed by 4.1 billion. kr. And there is what we are saying that it will be wrong if we do not at the same time have the opportunity to invest in welfare, to invest in training, to invest in retraining, to do everything that also affects our companies and our companies' competitive conditions and the framework conditions of our companies. That is why it is not possible to take out just one element, but the questioner is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143854	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143855	Thank you. And politics is about priorities. So on the one hand the Social Democratic Party has the opportunity to give the LO-worker something more in his pocket, give the teacher, the teacher, the nurse something more in his pocket, and on the other hand we have Denmark's Radio standing over here, which one uses approx. 4 billion kr. on a yearly basis. It could be privatised. I wonder if the Danes can find out for themselves what kind of television they want, and then we had the funding on this corporation tax. But it is about priorities, and so the Social Democracy would rather give journalists priority on Denmark's Radio than give the LO worker and the nurse a little more time to return home to the family.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143931	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503143932	Thank you. Well, crisis policy involves some political choices, and the choices the government has made here during the pandemic are the right choices. It shows all numbers. We have a smaller fall in employment than the countries with which we compare ourselves to, we have a smaller fall in gross domestic product, we keep our hands on the jobs, we have everything the LO family needs to create security. And then, in fact, I think that the questioner, in his question, completely confuses these famous apples and bananas with a fruit mix, because this has nothing to do with Denmark's Radio.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144005	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left, please stay ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144025	Thank you, Mr President. With this resolution by the Conservative People's Party, it is proposed that we reduce corporate tax from 22-21 per cent. in 2021 and gradually lowers corporate tax to 19 per cent. 2025. This is a discussion that we have had earlier this year and, as it is, we rarely change our view in the short term. The purpose of the resolution is to ensure that it is attractive to operate in Denmark and, as the Conservative People's Party writes, it is important to ensure a better framework for companies in Denmark. Left hundred percent agree with that. It is absolutely crucial that we have a healthy climate for companies and investments in Denmark. We must ensure good framework conditions for companies that then sign up with growth and prosperity when they have the opportunity to create value and demand for their services. That is why the Left has also helped to reduce corporate tax through the 00s and 2010s, so that today we are close to the EU average. Good framework conditions are many things. This is everything from taxes, taxes and infrastructure to labour force, service level and municipal cooperation. Can companies have their employees healed and treated when they become ill? An effective health system is also important to get the wheels running around under the companies. There is no doubt that the Left has a great deal of sympathy for the proposal, but we cannot support the funding. We have already prioritised the funds with our draft Finance Act this year, and we have given priority to the room for manoeuvre. What have we given priority to? We have given priority to the green transition, a strong capital, a rebooting team for rural areas and infrastructure; we support, for example, the creation of new jobs. Green transport; we would like to see an increase in the employment allowance; for green initiatives we spend 1 billion. kr. to phase out the PRS tax; then we spend 1 billion. kr. to reduce all kinds of taxes; we would like to support more green entrepreneurs; we would like to support export efforts; we would like a green research reserve; we would like to be a digital pioneer country in Denmark and have a growth plan for life science, which we have just presented. I could just keep going because we have a lot of plans for how we think the money is best spent. As I said, of course, in the Left, we think the proposal is a good one. It is good to have a discussion on how best to give priority to Denmark in the future. And we will certainly not rule out the possibility of talking about having to look at corporate tax, but that is just not what we can do right now, and that is not what we think is the best thing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144411	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. It's only from Mr. Knox's office. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144415	Can the rapporteur point to a tax that is more harmful and distorting and where you want a greater gain by lowering it than corporate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144427	We in the Left have an eye for corporate tax every time we make a Finance Act. For this reason, we have also been helping to reduce corporate tax for a very long time. Now I mentioned before a lot of things that are currently good for Denmark, but I would like to mention some of them again. That is, for example, the case. the green switch, but it's not free. Some money needs to be spent on the green transition, and then it is not really any use that you want to spend the money twice, as we sometimes experience you can get to. The left is quite strong on our tax stop, and that is precisely because you have to weigh how much money you want to spend and how much money you can find. We do not think that this is the right time to reduce corporation tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144525	Thank you, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144526	We have the highest tax burden in the world, and what we are hearing now is that the Left's ambition is a tax freeze. We have the highest tax burden in the world. Is that the level of ambition? We must be able to ask for a little more from the left. And if it's this funding you don't want, let's try looking at Denmark's Radio. There's 4 billion. kr. This is something that benefits the LO worker, the clerk, and employment will increase. It's good for the old-age pensionist. It's good for everyone. Denmark is getting richer, and we get more prosperity, and we can find funding by privatising Denmark's Radio. Wouldn't that be a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144602	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144604	But with all due respect, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, I would say: these are just words. We come up with a fully funded Finance Act where we will spend the money in a different way. That's all it is. We would like to spend money on green conversion. It also helps all of them, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen mentioned earlier. After all, all the points we mentioned in our draft Finance Act are the priorities of the Left, and then it is all right that new citizens should give different priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144641	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144645	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left for responding to our proposal. Of course, we had hoped that the Left would help reduce corporate tax. In fact, it is a little surprising to me that the Left is the only of the bourgeois parties which do not support a reduction in corporation tax. Even the Danish People's Party recently voted in favour of a reduction in corporation tax. The left is the only party in the bourgeois camp against it. In fact, I find that surprising. Nor do I think that the explanatory statement that it is not in the Finance Bill of the Left is very good. We will come a little later today in favour of a number of the Left's proposals, although they are not contained in our draft Finance Act, but I think we have to bend a little towards each other and say that when we have the opportunity to create a majority in favour of a tax reduction, we have to strike. Then it may well be that we will not give priority to the research allowance on a reduction in corporation tax and that it is the other way around for the Left, but we must agree that lower taxes on business are something we stand together in the bourgeois camp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144752	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144753	We are in favour of having full funding for the tax reductions that are coming. That is why we have in our financial laws, for example. fully financed the reduction of the PSO tax, so that it is completely phased out. That's 1 billion. kr. We would like to spend a lot of money removing all sorts of different taxes for our business community. These are also areas that are given priority by our companies. Now I do not quite know how the Conservative rapporteur counts, but I cannot find the majority that the rapporteur considers, but perhaps the rapporteur can elaborate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144837	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144838	We shall shortly be dealing with a proposal from the Left on a research allowance. It is not number one on our list of tax concessions that we would like to see implemented. But if we act like the Left and say that, because it is not in our draft budget, we are voting against, we will never get together for any tax relief, at all. So I think it is strange, given that all other bourgeois parties are involved in lowering corporation tax, that the Left as the only party will not be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144913	Now it is not every day that we are discussing a tax relief of 4 billion. kr., as we heard the tax minister say earlier. After all, it is not a small sum. After all, it is a nicely large sum and not an amount that you just pull out of your own draft budget. However, I would like to promise the rapporteur of the Conservatives that every year we will consider whether corporate tax should be included in this list of where we want to reduce taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503144945	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145002	After all, we are debating a resolution by the Conservative People's Party to reduce corporate tax by 1%. in 2021 and with an additional 2%; Towards 2025, so it comes down to 19 per cent. The aim is overall to make it more attractive to operate, and there I can clearly say that we fully agree with that in the Danish People's Party. It must be attractive to operate in Denmark. We fully recognise that the corporate tax rate is one of the parameters that makes it attractive to operate in Denmark, but one also has to bear in mind that there are other parameters that need to be included in the equation if one is to make it attractive to operate in Denmark. However, the lower corporation tax is one of those parameters. That is what we are discussing today, so as a starting point I shall deal with it most. As the motion for a resolution says, I am in favour of a lower rate also increasing competitiveness because it increases investment. Increased investment results in better productivity, and the two parameters together also mean that there will be higher wages and more jobs, and that is quite reasonable. As has also been part of the debate, we in the Danish People's Party believe that we should follow our neighbouring countries. I know the average is around, it is not 21 per cent, I think, for the OECD, and we are 22 per cent. So we're actually a little above average, and that's why we, among other things. voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled a few weeks ago to reduce the rate by 1%. We chose to vote in favour of this, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov also mentioned earlier in his question to the Left. However, as I have said, there are also other parameters to be included when talking about the competitiveness of companies. I think that some of what we all encounter when we visit companies is that it is not just corporation tax people are talking about. It's all sorts of other stuff. It may be that it is difficult to provide skilled labour, that there is a need for a better infrastructure to get rid of your goods, but may also be able to attract some employees further away from, that is, increased mobility, or that there is a flexible labour market, so that it is easy to hire and get rid of people. Of course, income tax could also play a role, because then you have to pay people higher, because income tax can be high, and, above all, taxes are also something that is very much involved, because that is one of the things that is above the bottom line and that means that you may never get a profit and will not pay corporation tax at all. It's just to mention that there are many things you need to have looked at, and we would kind of recommend that you look at it a little wider instead of looking at one rate. One possibility could be because one can, as it were, already conclude that the Left and the Socialists are against trying to see whether some report proposal could be made to call for negotiations in general on a business package, that is to say, a growth package for our companies and how to ensure that there are better conditions of competition in the future, and where we are not just referring to some corona aid packages; it is a good thing that we have had them and have held our hands under companies, but it does not help with long-term competitiveness. There are some things about the motion for a resolution that are a little too bad, and that is, of course, that it does not really say where the funding is to come from. This has also been mentioned by previous rapporteurs. Reference is made to labour market reforms, but which? It doesn't really say what it costs either, but I understand from the tax minister that it is 4.1 billion. kr. This could have been mentioned in the proposal, because then it would have been a little easier to relate to. 4.1 billion kr. After all, it is also quite a lot, but I would like to say, as a matter of fact, just to be constructive, that we could see that we could reduce corporate tax if, for example, we were able to do so. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I know that it will be difficult when you first start looking at the specific business support schemes, but I think that it would make a lot more impact if it were to reduce corporate tax and remove some schemes, or if, in general, you simply made corporate tax law simpler by removing many of the deductions that are also today, which actually make it difficult to operate, because there is both a tax account and a general account, and I know that the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has been focused on. So if we could do some work, trying to remove some of the business support schemes or making the legislation simpler by removing some deductions and then spending money to lower corporate tax, we might as well see ourselves in it. But so, I think, to be honest, it is difficult to vote in favour of a proposal in which there is nothing about what it costs and where there is no funding behind it. So, against this background, we cannot support it, but we would like to go constructively into a work where one could look at whether it could involve business support schemes or other, or where one also looks more closely at how we can achieve better competitiveness for our businesses in the future. After all, as I said several times in my speech, there are many parameters to have been looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145425	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145428	Thank you for the positive reception from the Danish People's Party. After all, we have also had a resolution in the past to reduce corporate tax, for which the Danish People's Party voted, and we were very pleased about that, because then we agree on it. Of course, it will take more work than just to write a motion for a resolution on a few lines before voting on a specific tax credit through the vote. That is why it is only a motion for a resolution and not a draft law. I would just like to sign and say that, of course, we also want to be involved in looking at, for example. business support schemes, deductions and all sorts of other things to make it go up. The important thing here is that we have the opportunity to make Denmark richer by reducing corporation tax, and then it may be that there are some other places to pick up some more money, but that can be done in a way where society gets richer, because corporate tax is one of the most harmful and growth-retardant taxes, and it can be replaced by some less harmful and less growth-retardant taxes. So we will probably be able to find out if we could form a majority for what we have done so many times before with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145530	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145532	Thank you. I very much agree with that and I fully acknowledge it. I think the level of ambition is probably higher for the Conservative People's Party than it is for the Danish People's Party, but I think it is important to have something else in it as well. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If we can use that term to reduce corporation tax instead of granting subsidies, then I think we are getting a lot more out of this exercise, even though it may not necessarily be the kind of funding we want from the Conservative People's Party. I think it's positive, so let's try to dive into it and see if we could find each other in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145603	Good. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Carl Valentin of the SF, who is allowed to stay ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145621	Thank you. The proposal here is about lowering corporate tax, and we are not in favour of that in the Socialist People's Party. I think that the way it is presented creates a picture of a Danish industry which is very hard hit by very high taxation, which makes it completely impossible to operate in Denmark. But in reality, Denmark has some of the best conditions to operate despite our taxes. In fact, it is not even in spite of the fact that, if you can put it that way, in reality, our tax system is a big part of the prerequisite for many of the benefits that our companies enjoy. And when we lower taxes, the money must be found, and that means less money for welfare, and the proposal here does not even indicate concrete funding. I agree that there can be a competitive advantage by cutting taxes, and that is also the argument of Conservatives, and I think that is quite obvious, but that approach just contributes to a race towards the bottom, where there are ultimately no winners. Slowly, but surely, our tax base will be undermined until we all hit a corporation tax of 0 and therefore Denmark should not only refrain from participating in this unhealthy competition, but also work for a bottom below corporate tax in the EU. The SF opposes the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145735	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145740	Thank you. Does the rapporteur from the SF accept that if you lower corporate tax, people on daily allowances get more money, people on early retirement get more money, people on su get more money, people on cash benefits get more money, that is, if you lower corporate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145758	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145759	This is a very complicated debate, and the assumptions made by Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen comes here, based on some calculation models, which SF has also questioned on several occasions. So I do not think it can be so simplistic. It also depends on how to finance such a proposal here. In other words, it is obvious, for example, to cut welfare, and then you cannot say that, for example, benefit recipients get more money between their hands. So that depends on many things: for example, calculation models, and how to finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145829	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145830	But then we are back to classical socialism: that is, if the figures do not fit into the agenda, they do not recognise it. Here it is the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury, the Economic Wise Men and the OECD who all acknowledge this principle. And then you say, we don't recognize it. You can, for example. finance it by privatising Danmarks Radio. This has nothing to do with anything that goes beyond the recipients of benefits or others. They're already paying for it now over the tax. So what I hear is that the SF simply does not recognise the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury, the OECD and the economic wise men who all acknowledge this widely, not only in Denmark, but largely throughout the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145910	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145911	I think it has been clear, in the time we have been sitting in the Folketing together, that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has built his entire political project to be the watchdog of the citizens and to be the one that is critical of the rulers and civil servants, etc. But I really think it would be very good if Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen was more critical of the arithmetic models being created and used in the Ministry of Finance, and the system that in fact in many ways creates incentives to pursue a policy that in my optics is really distorted and also hits some of the voters who vote for Mr. Boje Mathiesen. Lars Boje Mathiesen's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145947	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503145950	It was not because I was shocked that the SF does not support our resolution to lower corporate tax, so peace be with it. That is why I really want to ask you something that might be a little on the edge of the resolution, and it is whether it would be possible to imagine that SF would be helping to reduce corporation tax if it were to raise green taxes in return. Because this would make Denmark richer, i.e. by lowering corporation tax, and you could also make Denmark greener by having green taxes that could encourage companies and perhaps also citizens to behave in a way that produced in a way that was good for the climate. Could the SF see itself in such a tax reorganisation and thus in such a situation add votes to the lowering of corporate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150040	No, as a starting point we could not. I think it makes sense to raise green taxes, we are very much in favour of that, but when that money is spent, we would rather return some of them, for example through the green cheque, or spend some of the money investing in various green projects. We would rather give priority to this than lower corporate tax. But if it were finally to be, it could be a fairly model, because it is more sympathetic than what is in the proposal itself, which was presented here, but it is basically not something that the SF is in favour of, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150107	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150109	I think it might be to get around it a little cheap when SF says they have something they'd rather do, because we all do. We all have something that we would like to do ourselves, but I ask that if the choice is between the status quo or a shift in the tax, where we raise green taxes in return for lowering corporate tax, would SF think it was worse to make that change than not to make it? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150137	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150139	I don't know, I think I'd have to see a concrete model for that. But I think it would be very sensible to raise the green taxes, and we are working very hard for that. That is also something we should discuss later, so we think that would be a good thing. However, SF does not come as a starting point to prioritize reductions in corporate tax, because we just think that contributes to an unhealthy competition in a race towards the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150156	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then the next speaker, Mrs Kathrine Olly, from the Radical Left, is asking to be ready while there is spriting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150218	Thank you, President. In the Radical Left, we also think that the proposal is actually quite excellent, and certainly not as far-fetched in hemp as can sometimes be seen in resolutions. After all, we have been involved in a corporate tax reform in 2012, together with the SF and the Social Democratic Party, and when we then reduced the percentage a little, we got quite a sharp increase in income from corporate tax, so there is clearly a causal link between the level of corporation tax and how Danish companies are doing. We fully acknowledge that. However, as the rapporteur of the Left also explained quite well, there are quite a number of aspects or conditions for Danish companies that need to be present, so that they are well and thriving and helping Denmark forward, and on that list it is currently not the Radical Left's top priority to lower corporation tax. We could be tempted if the reality looked different and if it were the case that some sources of funding might have been identified, which also had a certain realistic basis. But the thing about reducing the percentage as much as 19 is very violent, because we simply cannot see where to find 4.1 billion. kr. We do not have, for the present, a reduction in corporation tax on our own draft financial legislation, but we do have a number of other framework conditions for companies that we really think are more interesting in the situation we are in now in Denmark, for example. research and development allowance. And that could, for example, be... We are also talking about what we have achieved, together with the Conservatives, namely the green tax reform, and I think it is strange that none of us have actually talked about it yet. This is a reform in which the Conservatives and the Liberals are involved, in which we have actually allocated several billions of kroner for direct subsidies and green deductions to businesses that want to switch green. It can be said that this is also a set of framework conditions for companies which we so politically think it makes more sense to take action against. As the rapporteur from the Left also explained, green business conversion is perhaps a little more important right now than the overall reduction of corporate tax. Another thing we also consider more important in the corporate tax context right now to focus on is clearly to support the US's new announcement by President Biden, who has announced that a joint global corporation tax rate of 21 per cent. could be really interesting to aim at. France and Germany have announced that they will not block the European Union from taking the lead and trying so hard to mark us on it and getting us to a common bottom under corporate tax. So for us, a common global bottom under corporate tax is a more important priority than the fact that we in Denmark are currently turning down corporate tax. So far, so good. There is for and against, but the intention is good, and the causal link is excellent, but the timing may not be so good right now. So the Radical Left says no, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150555	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First of all, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150559	Thanks for the speech. A common bottom in corporate tax of 21 per cent. would, of course, require that some countries be forced to raise the tax. I do not think that other countries should be forced to do so; to raise the tax. But I would also like to thank you for your speech, because I actually thought there were some constructive parts in it. Now we have come back to reality, as compared with both the Socialist rapporteur, and I also think the radical rapporteur, we would like to ask whether one would recognise that if corporation tax is to be reduced, it will give a real increase in the wages of LO workers and indeed also for nurses and for teachers and benefit recipients, people in su and for folk pensioners, who are also getting an increase. So my first question to the rapporteur must be whether you want to recognise what the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and the Economic Wise Men say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150643	It is certainly the case that if you use the calculation models that the Ministry of Finance has put forward now, it is quite correct that then we see the causal link. But if, for example, we do. had a welfare society such as that which New Citizen is aiming for when you read New Citizen's programme that the public should find 100 billion. kr., so that all New Citizens' political ideas can be realized, you could get very, very difficult to pay both cash benefits, daily allowances and salaries to public employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150711	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150713	We have the world's highest tax burden of 46-47 per cent. In New Citizens, we think it can be reduced to 40%. Oh, my God, if you in Radicals think it's too optimistic and ambitious, then we're probably gonna make it. I would like to ask about the fact that it was said that it was the green transition that was important for the Radical Left. Does Radicals not recognise that if we reduce corporate tax, companies will have better opportunities to invest in a new technology and replace some of their old production equipment to something newer? And that will really help the green transition, because they are likely to buy green to fit in with the new reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150749	We are also promoting this now because we are giving them a huge deduction; we are giving them very, very large subsidies through the green tax reform • billions of kroner. And we have chosen to do this politically because we want to be sure that that is what they are investing in. If you generally lower corporate tax, you cannot be sure that there is where the investment is being directed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150811	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150814	I am a little disappointed that the Radical Left, I must almost say once again, will not be involved in making a sensible tax reduction. However, I note that the radical rapporteur said that Radicals would rather make a permanent deduction for research and development expenditure in companies than lower corporation tax. I am surprised because it is economically worse. In other words, it is clear that a research and development allowance is distorting the investment of companies so that they will choose to invest more in research and development into other investments which could generate a higher return. And that is why it is economically worse to permanently make a research and development allowance than to reduce corporate tax. So why would Radicals prefer a tax relief that is economically worse than one that is better?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150915	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150917	I am not sure that we agree that investing in research and development is a worse investment. That is precisely where the new technology is to be found. And although we are not enthusiastic about, for example. If we do not research and develop, then we will never be able to achieve the dream of the government of the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150943	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503150946	We have the policy of taking the tax cuts we can get, so to speak. Because we don't have a majority. We can't always dictate what we can get, can we? So we will also be voting in favour of the permanentisation of the research and development allowance, as proposed by the Left, which we will be dealing with here later today. I am just surprised that it can be said that it is better to give higher deductions for research and development than it is to lower corporate tax. For this deduction means that if a company is faced with having to invest in production facilities that will generate a higher return, or investing in research and development, then you choose research and development, even if it results in lower returns. So why do the biasing of incentives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503151027	In fact, I believe that this is a very good example of how we are politically different; of a social liberal and conservative position. That is, for us a higher return is not necessarily the best target. It is not necessarily the case that we have to find a lot of money. For us, it is just as important that we develop as a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503151047	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503151105	It is not surprising that Enhedslisten does not want to play a part in the race against the bottom of corporate tax that is going on internationally, or at least internationally. Because new winds are blowing, you have to say, and in this sense, this proposal is a bit of a bad timing. We have a Prime Minister in Britain who wants to set the corporate tax rate up to 25%, which is completely identical to what Enhedslisten proposes should happen in Denmark. So I note that, in relation to the Conservative People's Party's British Sister Party, there is more agreement between what Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party's Sister Party in Britain believes than compared to what Enhedslisten and Conservatives can agree on in relation to corporate tax in Denmark. At the same time, we can also see that it is exciting what is going on internationally with discussions after the United States has really got on the led and wants to make an international bottom under corporation tax of 21 per cent, which, in fact, if the Americans manage to get through with it, is the beginning of the final battle against tax havens that we actually see in what Biden is playing out with. And it's really exciting what we see. It then says on the Conservative People's Party website that you want to eliminate corporate tax altogether, and thus you want to turn Denmark into a tax haven in line with the Cayman Islands and Panama. And in this context, of course, it can be said that this proposal is, after all, moderate. However, there is hardly any doubt that it will cost a considerable amount of billions, which is not reflected in the proposal, but, as the Minister of Taxation has then indicated, will be 3 billion. kr. Actually, it's just over 4 billion. kr. you'll get if you do as Boris Johnson suggests. Just under Danish conditions there will be just over 4 billion. kr. extra in the Treasury every year at home, which we can then use to invest in the green transition or restore our welfare after many years of cuts and deterioration. We do not, of course, want to contribute to any more labour market reforms, as the proposal also says. The Danish corporation tax rate is 22 per cent. at a level equivalent to the EU average and the effective corporate tax rate is approx. 20% and the effective marginal corporation tax rate is 15.4%. And with regard to the last two of the effective corporate tax rates that I mention here, they are both below the average. So is the problem big? No, we don't mean that in the Enhedslisten. It's gonna be a no from here. On the contrary, we think we should go the other way and then look at how to get the company to contribute more. If I may say something about how we can see that business can be strengthened, also in terms of how to look at tax incentives, then it will be in relation to promoting employee-owned companies. And in this connection, I'd like to show this book to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, like Mr. Rasmus Jarlov may find pleasure in reading No props on the platform!), which gives an overview of how to strengthen the democratic economy, where we actually have a proud tradition in Denmark, but where we have lagged behind in relation to other countries, among others. The United Kingdom, Italy and Spain, where there are many jobs in them and where there are also companies which, in crisis situations, prove to be more resistant than traditional hierarchical companies. So there are opportunities to improve business conditions in a sector such as the cooperative sector and consumers, customers, employee-owned and customer-owned companies, where there are certainly things we can do better than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503151504	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is therefore the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr von der Vring. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503151545	Thank you to the rapporteurs who have been up here and are addressing our proposal and thank you to the tax minister for addressing our proposal to reduce corporate tax, and of course a special thanks to the parties who supported the proposal. Although it is not enough for us to have a majority, we are glad that we are not alone in the desire to have a lower corporation tax in Denmark. It may be surprising that there is no broader support, since lowering corporate tax would be one of the best things you could do for the Danish economy. I fully understand that there are some parties that want a great deal of money to come into the treasury. However, I think that everyone should agree that we should try first and foremost to tax activities and have some taxes in Denmark that do not make us poorer, and there is therefore, in fact, the possibility of making a revenue-neutral restructuring of the tax system, which reduces corporation tax, and then we could raise some other taxes, if we want to insist that there should continue to be so much money in the Treasury as there is today. So, regardless of political convictions, regardless of right and left, how much you are in favour of redistribution, you should be in favour of a lower corporation tax, which could make Denmark richer, and especially when we have these calculations from the tax minister himself, which show that all groups would get more money for themselves if you lowered corporate tax. Because it creates a bigger gap, it gets more people into work, and it actually means that also cash benefits recipients and benefit recipients get more. Because if Denmark gets richer, their benefits also increase. So that would be good for everyone, and that is why we are sorry that we cannot find support for it. Then I thought that there was an interesting debate in the bourgeois camp about whether or not we should vote for some tax reliefs which we ourselves do not necessarily have as our first priority. I discussed this here both with Radicals and with the Left, and there I would just say that our approach to it is that we take the tax cuts that we can get. Not all of the proposals that are being considered in this Chamber are necessarily those that we have on our top-of-the-line or top-of-the-line or top-of-the-line tax breaks that we would like, but we are voting in favour of the tax cuts that we can get. Because we cannot decide everything, and although it has not just been included in our draft budget, we also support it when, for example, there is one. will come up with a proposal to make the research and development allowance permanent. Because we think it would be better to do it than not to have a tax relief. So these are two different tactical approaches to it, but now I'm just saying it because someday someone is probably saying that we have voted in favour of all sorts of tax cuts. Yes, we will; as long as the others have not been implemented, we will take what we can now get, otherwise we will never get anything, and then we can sit and have the perfect financial bill ourselves. However, it is of no use if any of it is not implemented at all, because there are five bourgeois parties which each have their very specific plan and which then will not vote in favour of some proposals coming from some others and which do not exactly fit into that plan. That is why we have at least the approach that we have. Yes, I think we have presented here an opportunity to make Denmark richer for the benefit of everyone, and the Folketing has chosen not to accept it, and this is not the big surprise, but of course we can get a little fret about it, and we keep fighting for a lower corporation tax in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503151918	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. On the other hand, sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen was asked for a second round, where he now comes on as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503151931	Thank you. Socialists are funny people. In recent days we have heard proposals from the SF which were dissatisfied and which do not think that people on transfer incomes have enough money in their pockets, that it is unreasonable for them, and here we have a proposal which actually guarantees more money for people on unemployment benefits, people on cash benefits, early retirement workers, people on su, people on folk pensions and, of course, also for people who are in work, a LO family or an employee, and through and through a very, very good proposal, yet the socialists turn their thumbs down. After all, it is more important to secure itself and the Treasury and the politicians in here power over the citizens, rather than actually having some money for themselves. It is, of course, characteristic of the socialists in the way that, when it comes to the socialists, it is more about themselves than it is actually about the citizens. This Conservative proposal to lower corporate tax is a sensible proposal, it is a good proposal, and we can of course support that in New Citizens. We are happy to look at funding, and we also have no problem with looking at others' proposals and taking them with us, which is why we will also be voting in favour of the Left's proposal later today. We think it is a good thing, and we think it is a good thing when we can gather together in the bourgeois camp for tax reductions, and we must, of course, stand firm on that. So we shall support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152100	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152105	I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Lars Boje Mathiesen has studied some of the studies which the Ministry of Finance is leaning on in relation to the calculations made by Mr Boje Mathiesen. Lars Boje Mathiesen mentions here from Parliament's platform. And in this regard, I would like to know if Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen actually believes that a higher corporation tax is harmful to companies or that it is detrimental to the persons whom Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen mentions from Parliament's platform, e.g.: LO workers or persons on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152138	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152140	We saw here in connection with Arnepensionen that there was an answer that if you set limits on wages and those things, then it also sits in the wages of them on the floor. So I think it actually describes quite well that it has a problem in it: that it puts itself in wages. Therefore, raising corporate tax is very, very bad. In my view, raising corporate tax would reduce productivity, reduce the number of new machines, and it would also put itself in a poor competitive position, thereby also damaging the wages of employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152213	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152215	Well, then, let's take the example of sir. Lars Boje Mathisen mentions. This is an example that I have wondered a great deal about and therefore asked about. Because the assumption is that when you put a tax on the banks, it will be 100 percent reduced in wages in the form of lower wages, which will mean that employees in the financial sector will throw their ties and go out and work as bricklayers and slaughterhouse workers, and thus it will also lower wages in the rest of society, including for sosu helpers. That is why it is technically assumed that when you make a special tax on banks, everyone else across the country will suffer. One thing is that it is said that it will all be rolled down in wages, but another thing is that here we ignore the fact that we are operating with excess profits in the banks; in other answers we are told that we are doing so. Isn't that an absurd calculation? Can't we have an opinion about it, that it seems strange,
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152304	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152305	No, I think it is more absurd that the socialists do not at all recognise these common methods of calculation, which all sorts of people think and live by, and the way we have organized the economy; I think that is more absurd. I fully acknowledge the accounting methods of the Ministry of Finance. We also saw it in the past when it came to hybrid capital, where a bill was added to the banks, it was 340 million. kr.? I am not allowed to keep up with that, but it was on that scale. It is also significant that it would be passed on to consumers, that is to say to customers. So there's nothing unusual about that. I think it would be nice if the Enhedslisten would start to recognise it so that we could at least speak from the same framework. And then we can talk about what we think is right and wrong to do in society, but if you don't even recognise these economic methods that everyone else uses, then it's gonna be hard to have a debate about what to do with society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152348	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152351	Thank you. Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that it is conducive to a good political debate to claim that the socialists are just doing what they do to favour themselves and the rulers, etc.? Could it not be because we simply have a different ideological starting point and perhaps do not share the world view of New Citizens, and that we are actually here for some idealistic reasons, and not just because we want to do everything good for ourselves and in fact do not care about the working class, and what might now be of various strange claims from the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152419	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152420	No, because that's how I see the socialists. A socialist society is helping those who sit in power... this little centralist power elite. That's how it always ends. It always does, and it's gonna do it again. There are no historical examples that it does not end this way. Because if you wanted something good for the workers, you secured proper conditions of competition so that you could hire more people; then you made sure that the citizens who have at least got a little more; then you didn't go in and raise taxes on cigarettes, which mainly affect people who have the lowest income; then you wouldn't make a bill that made all the income groups poorer. You wouldn't do that if you cared about the people out there and if you put them first. You do it because you put yourself and the system first.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152506	Sir. Troels Ravn of the Social Democratic Party has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152513	Thank you. Recognizes Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen now here after 1 May, when we mark the International Day of the Workers that some have been here before us? There are some who have fought for a cause, so that ordinary people today can go to work without the risk of becoming ill or severely worn out; that there are some who have fought before us for us to have proper pay and working conditions; that we have a wage that we can live on; that we get holiday money, pension etc. Those who have fought for this cause are those socialists who have just thought of raging, or are those who have fought for a cause for the general good from an ideology and a place of value policy, and for us to have a society in which all people have good living conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152608	Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152609	There is certainly no greater lack of authority on the part of citizens than the holiday money system, so the politicians in here say that people are simply unable to take care of their own money, so you have to keep them, and then they can get them paid once in a while so that they can afford to go on holiday. I certainly do not see this as a positive element, not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152630	Sir. Troels Ravn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152632	Although I would like to recognise and respect the rapporteur on the platform, it was a very, very careful answer to a really great ideological and value-political question about what it is that has created a good society, what it is that has created a society in Denmark with a relatively small inequality, where people have good living conditions • especially when we look out into the world. It is politicians, it is people, it is political parties with a place of value policy that have fought that battle, and then the only answer the rapporteur can give is something about the holiday money. It's not very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152716	I mentioned the holiday money because it was a very specific example that the questioner brought up. If you don't want me to comment on it, don't bring it up. But what we can see has created the prosperity of society is not that redistribution. Historically, it represents a very, very small part of the prosperity that has been achieved. What we can see has led to the rise in prosperity is when labour market reforms have been carried out. This is when you have gone from a benefit period of 7 years to 4 years. This is when the former government of Helle Thorning-Schmidt lowered corporate tax. That's when you raise the top tax line. Then you could see that there was growth in society, and then prosperity was created in society. These are the things that have increased the prosperity of society, which then allows us to have a welfare society again. These are the things that have been important. It has been the tax reductions that have been quite important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152758	Thanks to the rapporteur here in the second round No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152811	The debate is open. We give the floor to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503152833	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the motion for a resolution, which proposes the introduction of a tax on meat from ruminants, the increase in the tax on petrol and diesel and the introduction of a tax on consumption on air travel. It is also suggested that these new taxes should be abolished when a uniform CO2 law is adopted. I would like to thank you for this motion for a resolution, which reflects to a large extent the importance of the green transition which the government, like the alternative, is paying very high attention to. The Government, the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party have reached an agreement on a green tax reform on 8 December 2020, and with this agreement we state that a uniform CO2 2 by 2030. As everyone who is active in this discussion knows, there are no easy solutions here. This is an ambitious objective, and that is why we have also set up, as part of the agreement, a group of experts to draw up proposals for precisely such a uniform CO2 emissions. It is also part of the work of the expert group to extend CO2 at the same time, I believe, it is important that the changes and increases that are being implemented are well thought out and, of course, also fleeing with the principles of the Climate Act. And what have we decided on the Climate Act? Yes, there we have decided that a future tax should take into account sustainable business development, Danish competitiveness, sound public finances and employment, a strong welfare society, cohesion and social balance, and that we should help to ensure what is called real CO2 as I said just now, we should be prepared to ensure that there are no easy solutions in this area and, of course, the proposals need to be carefully considered in relation to the aforementioned principles that we agreed with the Climate Act. Basically, if you look at the three proposals, it will increase the cost to the ordinary Dane. It will be more expensive to buy meat, it will be more expensive to fly, and car driving will also be more expensive, but the climate effect will be limited. Higher taxes on petrol and diesel will increase cross-border trade, it will shift emissions from Denmark to our neighbouring countries, and so, contrary to what we have agreed under the Climate Act, there will be a significant leakage here by such an increase. Conversely, a levy on meat will probably not reduce Danish emissions, since Danish farmers will then just export their meat to other countries without such a tax. Finally, a tax on air passengers would not, for example, provide incentives for greener tanks or more energy-efficient aircraft. It'll just make the plane ticket more expensive. The extension of the tax base to new areas and an increase in the level of taxation are therefore not just, if you like, simple proposals, although this may sound like it, and that is precisely why, with the agreement on green tax reform, we have asked a group of experts to address this issue. It is because it is not easy, but together we have committed ourselves to achieving a very, very ambitious objective. So although I and the government fully acknowledge the proposer's desire for immediate climate action and the desire for a higher tax in the three areas, I think it is worth waiting for the work of the expert group before implementing new taxes, and yes, the expert group will have to part-report, as it says, by the end of 2021, so that we can then convene the parties to the agreement to discuss it, i.e. the reporting, as I have said, at the end of 2021. The final reporting by the expert group will then take place in autumn 2022. Having said that, I am naturally looking forward to discussing the issue again, and I assume we will come to that when the expert group comes up with their work. For the proposer is right that there is a need for action, but, on the other hand, I think it is important that we think very well about and ensure that it lands just about in line with the principles that we agreed with the Climate Act. So the government cannot support the resolution on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153325	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153329	Thank you, President. I have sometimes asked the climate minister when really uniform CO2 will be introduced. This group of experts will have to be part-reported, and then it will have to report in full at the end of 2022. This means that we may be able to start drafting legislation at the beginning of 2023, and after three readings it may end up being adopted sometime after the 2023 elections if it lasts that long. Does the Minister agree that the decision to introduce uniform climate taxes has been postponed to a choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153414	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153416	I don't know when the election will come. But I know that we have set up a group of experts to look at this, and I think that is wise. We are all committed to achieving our common objective, which is written into the Climate Act, of 70%.'s reduction. However, there is no doubt that this is a very ambitious objective which will have major consequences both for the way we live, our consumption patterns and our business community. And that is why it is very, very important that it is thought through well and thoroughly and that, of course, it also gets the time it needs for it to be implemented, i.e. rolled out. These are very major changes that we must embark on in Danish society, which costs a great deal of money, which must also be found, and I therefore believe that this is the right process that we have chosen now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153501	Here you go, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153504	I think that the news today, if there are any journalists listening, is that it seems that we will only get uniform climate taxes after a choice. This means that we do not know which government is going to make it; we do not know how long it will take, because such a government must also be in place. Well, it's a huge postponement of some of what the Climate Council thinks is most important. And here comes the alternative with proposals to get started on three rather concrete points, which are also recommended by major climate organisations, and which are also well thought out and then the government says no. Can the Minister confirm that we will not have a solution before an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153543	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153544	Well, we're on it. We have adopted a green tax reform in which we have already outlined the beginnings of the transformation of our energy taxes, and this is happening from 2025 onwards, where we also address some of the heavy industries. And until then, we have, it can be said, organized a carrot, which means that with the new deduction possibilities and other options, business will have up to 6 billion. kr. in these years from 2021-2025, and then they can start to adjust to the transformation that I am quite sure we agree to come, but where they then have a carrot to be able to adjust to it before it sort of hits through from 2025 onwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153627	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153630	Thank you. I think that, in the light of this excellent resolution, we should just take a round of the individual elements of it, because I think the tax minister came a little quickly around the entire border trading effect on the tax on petrol and diesel. Can the Minister not confirm that it is true that Denmark is a tax haven for diesel that we in Denmark have a lower tax on diesel than there is, for example, a tax on diesel? is in neighbouring Germany, so that we get a lot of freight transport coming up here and thinking about it and then driving around Europe from here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153706	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153708	I think you have to look at that question a little wider. One thing is the direct tax, something else, you might say, the other factors that influence what the individual then pays for a litre of diesel. Therefore, tax levels cannot be compared. If you could, it is true that then there was a challenge, but if you look at the net price, if you look at the net price, the basis of comparison is slightly different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153738	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153740	Okay. Then I will jump on to the next flight, and there the Minister knows that it has also been a matter for the Radical Left to get a tax on air travel. And there the Minister argued that it should not be made more expensive for Danes to travel and that it would have a very small climate effect to do so in connection with flights. But I cannot help thinking that I also think we have put some climate taxes, for example. in disposable packaging and the kind of things that really do not have very great climate effects, but which are something we do to get money scratched into the green transition. It would not really be possible to imagine that we were making an air tax with open eyes in order to get some money in the box for the green transition, for example. The flight area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153822	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153823	I am sure that we can have a great debate on this, and there has already been, as the Radicals know very well, but that is just not the position of the government. It is true that you can easily, if you like, create a green cycle of priorities within the green framework, where you raise taxes on some of what you do not want and lower them on some of what you would like to have if you look at behaviour and consumption among us. We did so with the Climate Act before the summer holidays last year, and we are implementing it now, and one of the things we have addressed is the green tax reform, which we did together, where we have just set aside 6 billion. kr. to promote green conversion of, for example, energy efficiency in the production of our businesses. So this is a lead that we are already going down, and I am absolutely convinced that when we come to take a position on the recommendations that come from the expert group, it will be some of the things we need to look at again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153923	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153926	Thank you. What makes me speak is the comment by Radicals on diesel taxes. Could the Minister not make a few comments on whether it is not true that the Danish state actually makes a little money out of the Germans thinking up here? After all, freight transport has to be transported around anyway, and the money that you can see maybe earning from these refuels can be spent precisely on the green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153946	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503153948	It is in the main a little if you look at the calculations on what has also been sent over to the Committee on Taxation, and that is why I think it should be seen in a wider context. That is what I was trying to say before: one thing is the tax itself, another is the net price of 1 litre of diesel, which makes the balance a little different. It is clear that if you do as the proposal says, you simply raise it quite strongly, yes, you just send freight and passenger cars the other way, and that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154023	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154024	No, exactly and as you like. Germany raised the diesel price, the range would also be larger, and therefore there would be a greater economic incentive to refuel in Denmark; and therefore it would also give more money in the Treasury. Wouldn't that be correct, that is, if it happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154039	It depends a little on what the starting point is for such a debate. It is clear, then, that extremes can easily be found which mean it, but in the specific situation it is not quite the picture that emerges. It is also in the answers that we have sent over.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154053	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154056	I just want to ask you something. The joy was great with me when I was on my summer holiday after we had just negotiated the understanding paper in June 2019, because in July I saw the Minister of Transport say that passenger charges were something that was being considered in the government. The Minister of Transport said to Danmarks Radio: "There are several different handles that we can turn on. For example, a passenger tax, a fuel tax, a CO2 tax or an incorporation requirement. On the whole, it can be said that there are pros and cons of all the measures. So I guess there are also advantages of a passenger tax. Could it not be a good idea to do what the Minister of Transport did in July 2019, namely to have an open mind in relation to the possibility of introducing an air tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154152	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154153	If you want to reduce CO2 2 and if you want to achieve the objective, I think you should use the resources and the stakes where they give the highest possible CO2 and then there is saying that when you look at aviation today, it is hardly a passenger tax that helps it to get on its wings here in the coming years. So the proposal is not one that the government supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154239	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154241	No, it should not be introduced tomorrow, but it could be introduced when we just got on the other side of Corona, where we hopefully get the communities back on track. However, there is no doubt that if we want less flying and more environmentally friendly modes of transport to be used, it is obvious that we are looking at an air tax. In fact, we ourselves, in our own climate plan, which is a few years old, have not included the aviation tax itself in the reductions that make it possible for Enhedslisten to achieve the 70-percent target by 2030, because there are no real figures in this area, but there is no doubt that this has an effect. And it also has the positive effect that there is no negative social battle side, for those who fly are all the more equal to those who have suffered more in our society than those who have suffered less.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154328	Thank you to the questioner. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154330	However, if you want something like this to happen to transport, you should look at what you can do to develop sustainable fuels, for example. That is the way forward if you want such a cost-effective CO2 and I think it is only relatively clear that the passenger tax is not the most targeted. If that's CO2, that's the way to go. There is no doubt that aviation is also an industry that emits a lot of CO2 How to ensure that the reductions come here is a different and slightly broader discussion than just constantly focusing on trying to impose a passenger tax. This is not the most cost-effective thing to do. Compared to the road, it is the better to look at what fuels are coming in the planes forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154428	There are no more brief comments. We'll thank the tax minister. The next speaker is Mr. Troels Ravn of the Social Democratic Party, who can stay ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154451	Thank you for the floor. With this resolution, the alternative is to introduce a consumption tax on meat from ruminants, an increase in the tax on petrol and diesel and to introduce a personal passenger tax on air travel, which increases in the number of flights. In the Social Democratic Party, we, like the alternative, attach great importance to both the green transition and the 70-percent objective. The government, together with the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, has reached an agreement on green tax reform in several stages. In this context, it was stated that a uniform CO2 Unfortunately, we cannot draw a complete solution in a machine à sous machine. There are no easy solutions to this challenge. There are many difficulties in introducing such a tax. Therefore, the parties to the agreement have set up a group of experts to draw up proposals for the formulation of such a uniform CO2 one of the tasks is inter alia: to extend the tax to areas which are currently exempt from duty. It is important that both the expert group's models and the other tax adjustments we had to discuss before and after reporting, all take into account the provisions of the Climate Act that take into account both the green transition, the competitiveness of business, public finances and the welfare society. Employment and cohesion must also be taken into account. The proposals must deliver real CO2 in the Social Democratic Party we do not believe that the resolution here strikes the right balance between these diverse important considerations. All three proposals will significantly increase the cost of living for the ordinary Dane, and only a limited real climate effect will be achieved. Higher taxes on petrol and diesel will both hit those who depend on a car to make everyday life hang together and lead to leakage through increased border trade. A levy on meat will hit many ordinary families but will not change the exports of meat by Danish farmers to other countries, and the proposed aviation tax does not correct the incentives because it does not provide incentives for the use of green fuels or green aircraft. Although the intentions are good, the extension of climate taxes is not a simple task. This is why, with the expert group, we have gathered leading experts to help us with models for a broader and more uniform CO2 Expert Group part-reports in 2021 for discussions between parties and deliver final reporting in autumn 2022. In the Social Democratic Party we are of the opinion that we should await the work of the expert group and therefore we cannot support the proposal here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154802	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154806	Thanks for the speech. The rapporteur says that you cannot simply pull the solution into a machine à sous machine. I think that is a rather arrogant way of dealing with a motion for a resolution which seeks to solve a problem which is so great that the rapporteur cannot grasp it at all. In other words, there are other countries that have introduced, for example. Air fares, so when we fly home from them, we pay air fares. Does the rapporteur just think that they have dragged the political proposals into a vending machine and adopted them? In Germany, they have set a tax on fuel, which means that the Germans come here to buy fuel. So the rapporteur cannot say that we will then hoard when it is the other way. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur believes that the large countries that have introduced this have pulled their proposals into a vending machine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154904	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503154906	Thank you and thank you for the question. It was certainly not to be arrogant or dismissive in relation to the resolution here that I used the picture that this is complex. The picture with the vending machine is to illustrate that this is very complex. I would like to thank the alternative for emphasising the green conversion very strongly and for tabling a resolution which also reflects the importance of the green conversion and of a single CO2 tax. We have to deal with the production and consumption of meat, diesel and petrol and our consumption of air travel; the alternative hits spot on here. But it is just important for me and for the Social Democrats to say that we have set up this expert group, that it is complex, that we have to take it in the right order and that there are many considerations to take. That is why I am saying that we are awaiting the report of the expert group.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155013	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155014	Thank you. In relation to that group of experts, the Minister has implicitly confirmed that the results that come from it will probably not be implemented until after an election, which means that it is a new government that sits and is about to make it. If the rapporteur does not think that in relation to the Climate Council's criticism has been so clear and the Folketing and the government are under obligation to act, it is rather slow that we have to wait until right on the other side of an election before we get uniform CO2 at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155056	Well, I can read that the final reporting will be in autumn 2022. It is a report on a very complex issue in which I think it is absolutely essential that we have this consideration, of course, both for the provisions of the Climate Act on the green transition, for the competitiveness of business, for public finances, for the welfare society, for employment and for cohesion, and for the social democracy, too, this must be socially balanced. This is complex, and in view of the fact that the government, in fact together with the Folketing, with various agreements, has got started and has come quite a long way, also in relation to achieving a 70% reduction. of our CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155150	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, who is being asked to be ready, is Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155211	Thank you, Mr President. In the Left we are in favour of CO2 Left basically do not believe that it is us politicians who are the best at determining individual CO2 It can all too quickly be about gut feelings, prejudices, political ideas, and it can ultimately have unintended consequences. Therefore, it makes much better sense to establish a uniform CO2 This encourages companies to make production less CO2 A uniform CO2 2 It is our job to establish a uniform CO2 This is a fair mechanism where we do not on the political side detail everything; where we ensure that the goods become more expensive, depending on how much CO2 That is why we are very pleased with the agreement we reached back in December 2020 with the government, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservatives on a comprehensive green tax reform, which of course contains a uniform CO2 There has been a group of experts set up to illustrate possible models of how the tax should look and how it can be introduced. In the autumn of 2022, the expert group will have to submit the second and last report, and then, on an informed and factual basis, where possible consequences are included, we will be able to determine exactly the level of the tax. Because we must not just have a uniform CO2 I am in complete agreement with the authors of the motion for a resolution that it is urgent. That is why I also expect us in the agreement group to work quickly and effectively to establish a uniform CO2 as soon as possible if we do this properly, I have no doubt at all that companies will be with us. But we owe it to them to do this the right way. And I actually think yes, excuse me that it is a bit disrespectful to want to introduce slightly random CO2 2 We do that if we set charges that companies have to adapt to change them shortly after, and that is why we will wait to set a uniform CO2 We shall do that once the experts have made their recommendations so that the tax will be at just the right level. And then it should stay there; we should not change it in time and prematurely, as yes, excuse me the alternative suggests. Once it's ready, it'll be there, and then we'll go with it. The second will simply not be fair to our companies, how many are already under economic pressure. And with those words, I can tell you that the Left does not support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155714	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155718	Thanks for the speech. In the alternative, we actually agree with the vast majority. Of course we need to have uniform CO2 for this because we are just going to introduce slightly random charges, I would say that this is not something we have caught out of the air. In other words, there are countries, large countries that have thought about and introduced air fares or fuel taxes. So it is not just a matter of slightly random charges; it is, of course, taxes that have also been imposed by major climate organisations. We are lagging behind in time, we are very much behind in time, and there are great chances that we will not achieve the objective which the Left itself has helped to achieve. Why don't we introduce these excise duties now practice it and then phase them into the uniform CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155811	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155813	I kind of think I answered it nicely. However, I would like to say from the outset that I agree with the alternative rapporteur that it is urgent. I said it once during the speech, but I would like to point it out once again: I think it has gone too slowly. We would have liked this to go much, much faster, and we would like to press for it to go faster. Having said that, however, we also believe that it would be wrong for us to first create a tax system and so soon afterwards create a new tax system to which they have to get used to out there. We simply do not think this is fair to companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155856	Here you go, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155900	At any rate, I agree that this is a matter of urgency. I have been involved in all the climate negotiations and have also followed the various rapporteurs of the Left with ambition to achieve that goal from the platform and in other contexts, every time. But did the rapporteur himself think that we were in fact likely to come across the other side of a choice? So, even though the Climate Council has really recommended us to use this tool, has the Left also been lulled into the government's slow-moving process, where we might really have to wait until 2024, perhaps 2025, to get a uniform tax at all? How will this put the companies who need the figures in order to be able to organize their production, in other words, on the basis of knowledge of the costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503155952	Thank you. Well, I'm 100% in agreement with that. In other words, it is not satisfactory, and that is what we repeatedly point out is not satisfactory. I also think that we can see from the Left's draft budget that we would just like to speed up this process. Well, we'd like to speed up the green transition. We have put extra money into the green transition to our financial bill, so we are fully involved in pushing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160023	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160027	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur referred to the expert group and the agreement made by most parties in this Parliament, so I would just like to ask the whole principle: how does the Left view this uniform CO2? Is it crucial for the Left that it flees with climate science? That was the specific question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160100	We take the Climate Council's recommendations very seriously and we try as far as possible to put them into the policy that is our policy. In fact, I think we can see that in our draft budget because it says green in almost all sentences, not just because we think green is a good word, but also because we think it is urgent and that we have to do it quickly and in the right way, and that is what we then say a uniform CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160140	Thank you to the rapporteur. I don't think I got one hundred percent correctly worded, so I'm trying to ask again: is it crucial for the Left when the expert comes up with their recommendation and conclusion that the uniform CO2 2 is crucial for the Left when you introduce this CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160217	I respect the question, but I think it is actually a rather difficult question to answer, because we have not seen the expert group's report yet. That's why we put it over there. And then it'll be experts against experts somewhere if they don't agree. I hope, then, that they agree with the recommendations they make, and if they are not, I am quite sure that we will have a very good internal discussion on it, and then we will discuss it with the parties to the agreement afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160247	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Kim Valentin. And we will now welcome Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, who is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160309	Thank you. We are now debating a motion for a resolution calling for a levy on beef and lamb of DKK 17. per kilos and a fee on flights of DKK 75. rising to 225 DKK, depending on how many flights you take, and a higher tax on petrol and diesel of 1 DKK. per The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. According to the proposal, the revenue from these things is then to go back to the Danes via a green check-- part of the flight tax is then to be used for research into the conversion of air traffic. It is such a temporary tax, I understand from the proposal, because it all has to lapse again when you have a uniform CO2 I think, and it is also my party's position, that we should wait and see the result of it, because as I see this process we are going through as a country, it is to a large extent about us being a pioneer country; we should show the way to how to achieve a 70-percent target • show the rest of the world how to reduce CO2 But we have to recognise that Denmark is a small country and, after all, it is not we who play a huge role in relation to how much CO2 and there I do not see that temporary levies on meat and on air travel and on petrol are the solution. In other words, I do not think that other countries are looking at us and saying: Wow, when Denmark can solve it with temporary taxes, so do we. But I can understand the motivation of the author of the motion for a resolution, and I can understand that, Mr President. Torsten Gejl has, of course, that you want to do something now and that you have to push it. Because we do not disagree with the fact that something has to happen, but we must also recognise honestly that these things are not easy to do quickly. They are complicated, and that is also why a working group has been set up. But in the Danish People's Party we do not believe that it is temporary solutions that solve it. So quietly we really want to wait for the reports of this group of experts to show how to do it, and then we take the discussion from there. We fully recognise and understand the reason why we want things to go quickly, but we do not believe that temporary solutions are the way to go there. So, unfortunately, we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160524	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160529	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will agree that if we are to achieve our 70-percent target by 2030, it will be easier to achieve it if we introduce taxes right now. Can the rapporteur accept that if we introduce taxes now, it will be quicker to achieve our 70-percent target?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160608	In fact, I would like to admit that you could probably make it easier, the sooner you got started, but I just don't admit that this is the best way to do it. After all, as I said, we must do this intelligently, so that we become a pioneering country and not a scaremongering. After all, we can tighten the screw so much now on our companies, on our agriculture and on consumers, which means that the production of food will just happen via food producers in Poland or in Germany, and then we may have saved the Danish climate accounting, but the global climate accounting has in turn deteriorated. So yes, you can do something now, I just don't think that's the smartest solution. That is why I think it is sensible to wait and see what these working groups and expert groups are going to do so that we can be a pioneer country and show the way in a good way so that there is no massive job losses or CO2 is not happening and that is why I do not believe that temporary solutions are the way forward. There we need to look at a little more permanent and thought-out solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160708	The questioner? Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160711	When it is the case that we fly to different European countries, we can see that some of them have introduced a CO2 That is to say that we are paying CO2 and it is true that in Denmark we are just a small country, but we cannot demand that the big ones change the big things if we do not change the small things ourselves. Couldn't it be an idea for us to do the same with them? I mean, are we the only ones who have to pay out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160744	It is true that other countries have introduced an air tax, but because the others have made a bad solution, it does not mean that we should do the same. I do not think it is necessarily the best solution for us to make temporary charges for a two-year period on a flight which is being proposed here. I believe more that you have to do something broader, which is a more uniform CO2 You could also imagine that you now put an air fare on a ticket from Billund Airport, which is close to where I would fly from if it were, but then I might be able to drive to Hamburg airport where there was another charge. Well, you just move the problem around, and I don't think that's the answer to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160821	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160822	What is the rapporteur's view of having been lulled into the climate of government in such a way that we have to wait until after an election and perhaps a year after an election? Well, it's complicated, but it's not that complicated. Why on earth do we have to wait so many years to get a uniform climate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160846	I guess that's a good question, and I can't actually answer it. I also think that this is a very long time, and I think that many voters will be disappointed about it too, because frankly, I believe that the left has won many votes to be ambitious in the climate area, but I do not think that it is entirely in line with what they had expected to wait until after the next parliamentary elections. And what's behind it is hard to say. Of course it is complicated, but I also think that it is simply in order to get a discussion to sleep on the part of the government that it is deliberately pushed ahead of itself, because one might want to consciously on another side of a parliamentary election. But it's just my own speculation about what's behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160922	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur we welcome is Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503160941	Thank you for that and thank you for the alternative for a motion for a resolution. The tax instrument that we are discussing here is an extremely important tool in the green transition, and of course it cannot stand alone, but there is also a need for a subsidy and regulation. Whatever the case, however, it is really important and the proposal here lists a whole series of new taxes and also a model for using the proceeds. In the SF, we believe that all taxes imposed here are relevant, and we ourselves have proposed an aircraft tax on several occasions, and we also believe that particularly climate-laden foods should be subject to a tax. These may be foods such as beef and lamb and yellow cheese, on which we, the SF, would like to impose a levy, because they are absolutely the worst foods in a climate perspective, so it is not there. So the headlines in the proposal here are quite reasonable. However, we do not agree with the specific course of the tax in this respect, nor do we want to make the specific amount absolutely clear, as the proposal here does, nor can we support the proposed return measures, in which we will probably set it up in a slightly different way. So we cannot support the proposal as it stands here, although we think that there are many good elements for which we are fighting together with the alternative. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161105	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161111	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if, as I hear from the rapporteur, it would like to impose a levy on meat, in the rapporteur's view, it would reverse the social arrow so that it would hit those with low incomes more severely than those with high incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161128	It depends entirely on how to use the proceeds. It is clear, then, that if you use the proceeds on corporate tax reliefs or something, it can hit incredibly awkwardly, but if you return a great deal of the proceeds through the green cheque, as the alternative, for example. It is also suggesting, or other measures to promote equality, that it will not be socially disadvantaged and it can easily be arranged in a sensible way. In addition, I also find it dangerous to look at taxes in such a very isolated way. In other words, we can make some measures that may increase inequality a little and then, on the other hand, make some other measures that will increase equality and thus ensure a socially fair green transition, and we are very much in favour of this, because we think it is extremely important that we move quickly with the green transition, but it must also be socially fair. And it can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161213	All right, I can really acknowledge that if you have that position on it. How, then, do we ensure that that money is returned to the citizens one to one in relation to how much they so consume? In other words, what mechanism does the rapporteur envisage to create such fairness in that system? Is a green check based on how much you buy? Is it based on your income decile? Or what is the rapporteur thinking there? Well, it's out of curiosity I'm asking about these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161246	You cannot guarantee a return to you in relation to how much they consume, because if you do, it makes no sense. In other words, if you give people back the money they pay in tax, that is the equivalent of not paying any tax. Then it is clear that we must compensate those who have the lowest incomes if we want to ensure more economic equality. So that's one way to do it. You can do something else, too. In other words, we do not think it is necessary to return everything, but we can also use it on other equal opportunities measures, and there are many different ways of doing so. But it is certainly possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161318	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161321	Thanks for the speech. I don't understand why SF doesn't chop here. So, SF has itself suggested some of the things, and SF was at the forefront of demanding commitment from the government, because the Climate Council criticized it to pieces, and it is as if there are some tiny variants that are different from SF's own proposals. What does the rapporteur think it is necessary for the SF to vote in favour of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161351	The reason why we do not chop here and just vote for it is, of course, that there are some concrete elements that we do not agree with. In other words, we do not want to place ourselves entirely at the exact levels set out in the proposal here, nor do we want to place ourselves entirely on the reverse model proposed by the alternative, and we also think that the process is wrong. We have some parallel processes in relation to a green shift in our charging system and the sort of thing we are doing. So although we think that there are many good intentions and many things in which we quite agree with the alternative, it is also a bit violent for us to support the proposal as it stands, since it is not the perfect model for us to see that. As is so often the case, when dealing with such proposals here, I would very much like to support the intention and also the concrete points with which we agree, but that does not necessarily mean that we are simply voting in favour of the whole resolution. Because there would be a great many motions for resolutions that were constantly voted in favour if we thought that they were somehow moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161449	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161451	I don't think that's enough. For what I asked was: Okay, what parts does the SF think can be used here? How can we cooperate that we can say that this is what it should look like in order for the SF to vote in favour? Is this an airline tax, a progressive air tax? Is this another type of repayment of the proceeds? So, SF agrees that it is a disaster that we have to wait until after an election to get uniform climate taxes now, when SF has been in the forefront of a query debate that imposed a duty of action on the government. Then we come up with a proposal, and then I think it would be nice to have an answer to what SF would like to do to get the climate shot going after we have had a great period of slowness.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161540	In fact, I think that the alternative really affects all the places they want to change taxes. So, we agree with an airline tax, we agree with a meat tax, and we also agree with a partial refund of these funds, not necessarily of everything, but of some of it. So it's hard for me right here in the last 12 seconds that I have to present exactly how to change it, so that we would think it was the perfect model. But we think that in many ways it is escaping with our values, and we would probably adjust things a little differently with the actual taxes and refunds and something like that, and one could negotiate that if one had a good run about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161617	Sir. Sikandar Siddique from the Free Greens, but in the context of the Parliament outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161623	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the rapporteur will have two more minutes to explain what this is about and how we can agree not, I am teasing. I also hear the rapporteur being as close as in so close to supporting this proposal. We all agree here that we need these taxes. We also agree that it should be the widest shoulders that carry the heaviest load. In other words, there must be social compensation. Can we, the left-wing parties and the alternative, at least all of us on the left, really not find a way to land a tax on which we agree before that group of experts makes its recommendations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161723	I actually think that's a little funny assumption, sir. Sikandar Siddique has, that is, we should all agree on these charges, because we're just not in here at all. It's quite wild so much resistance there is. Well, I tried, for example. negotiating an air tax into the agreement we made on electric cars and such a thing recently, and the Social Democrats totally opposed it, and the bourgeois would not be involved in it either. In relation to a meat tax, I do not even believe that Enhedslisten is in favour. There you go, sir. Rune Lund correct me if I'm wrong. We are also quite few in here who believe that there should be a specific levy on beef and lamb and such things, for example. I think it is a great task to reach agreement here, and I think it is a good thing that we have a group of experts in terms of qualifying the debate, even though I agree with the fact that the government is very slow about this. So I do not think that in committee we can come up with a perfect model and reach an agreement, because we all really want to do so. I just don't think we can do that. I'd think it was amazing. That would be a wild new break, but I don't think that's gonna happen. I think we need to have a process further, also in line with the group of experts that is there. We, who are very green and want to work for these things, must work on for them together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161835	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161836	I'm just having a hard time deciphering that difference, at least our three parties between. When I hear the rapporteur's speech, I do not hear the big difference, and in the Folketing you land agreements where you are much further away from each other than we are in this area. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think it takes too long to introduce this uniform CO2 so the time horizon is satisfactory for SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503161920	No, it's not. So, I think the government is slow and I think it is really hard to be a parliamentary basis for a government which, in so many cases, is stalling and failing to deliver when we face a climate disaster with incalculable consequences. So I certainly do not think that the policy being pursued here from Christiansborg is satisfactory, but we are trying from the SF as well, we can, to move in the right direction, and that is also why we make compromises, have set up expert groups, are included in processes that the Free Greens so often stand outside because we are trying to move in the right direction, and that is the way we have chosen to work in parliamentary terms, and we will continue to do so because we believe that is what changes Denmark most.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162003	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no more brief comments. And a warm welcome to Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162023	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank the alternative for the proposal. It is a very good proposal which comes out of desperation and impatience because the green transition or climate legislation is simply not being implemented quickly enough; the government is slowing down. And we in the Radical Left have also hammered loose, I would say, in all the negotiations, that we should have more turbo on the green switch. As far as I am concerned, climate legislation has been absolutely essential since the mid-1980s, when I first read the Brundtland report as a teenager. I have not been able to understand why we have gone to elections after election ever since, without climate at any time being at the top of the agenda. All the way through the 1990s and up through the 00s, one government after another has slowed down and not taken the climate agenda seriously. We stand here today and share that frustration because all the governments before the present one, I believe, have failed. Time and again climate has been put at the bottom of the agenda until voters shout loud enough. And then, with the advent of the Alternative in 2009, we finally got a hint with a rod that the people actually care about the climate, and they still do away thank God for that. When you come in here, for somewhere in this middle-aged body, there's still a 15-year-old heart that wants the climate 120 percent, you hit into reality and various calculators, and then it's that we're left with the best alternative... sorry for the choice of words... which is a green tax reform. With the green tax reform that we have decided now and which we have agreed with the government and widely across the parties of the Danish Parliament, we have, as other rapporteurs have also explained, agreed on a uniform CO2 and I am also surprised that the Treasury was not more ready to present a model than it was, for it is in fact a debate that has been between debaters and between experts and economists for years; so it has puzzled me that we have not started looking at this a little earlier. But now, we're gonna get as good as it can possibly be in this round. Now we come to the concrete proposal. There are three tax proposals in this. The two of them are, after all, some that the Radical Left itself has on its draft budget and that we have included in the last two amendments, at least while I have been there. I think they're super reasonable. Perhaps you would be a little bit difficult to introduce from tomorrow, technically, if I know the Ministry of Taxation correctly, but it is certainly a proposal which I think we will take if we have at least looked at some of the technicalities that the other rapporteurs have also discussed, i.e. if we have it adjusted a little bit, would be able to agree to. Meat levies are not necessarily an idea taken from the radical backyard, since we think it is too specific a tax. As soon as it is replaced by a uniform CO2 2 All production, all companies, all sectors will be subject to a uniform CO2 That is also what the proposers are saying in the motion for a resolution: let us have a meat tax until we have a uniform CO2 But there I am probably on the side with the tax minister in that it will end up being extremely anti-competitive. We will simply see that exports of Danish meat production will go down and that animal production will greatly increase so that it will be sold to markets other than the Danish market. So I do not think that a meat levy is the most precise tool in this context. I'd rather whip this horse and keep whipping it until we get a uniform CO2 I can easily see that on the other side of a uniform CO2 but we'll have to wait that discussion until that day gets closer. That is why we reject the B proposal at this stage. But thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162525	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162530	Thank you for a beautiful speech... it came from the heart. Well, we can all see the main problem here. We have a strong and, what can be said, system-sustaining social democratic government that cannot really be touched, and it can thus slow down as much as it suits, while we others can shout and scream. And this is one of the things that dampens the possibility that we can get on with the things that are so necessary in terms of achieving our goals. Then you could say that you would like to be involved in an air transport tax, that you would like to do something that is not expected, that is, a small shock that you do not usually do in the Chamber to a government, especially when it sits here and is so powerful. That would probably make the Left wake up and perhaps cause some others to wake up, so that perhaps a majority could be put around the government, which probably does not lead to the major government crisis, but which leads to the need to correct one's back and start not to just hold us all together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162651	I am pleased that the alternative can see the scam of an airline tax; we can see that too. However, I cannot see the majority because I know where the other parties are on this issue. However, if today's motion for a resolution had been concerned solely with air transport charges, I think we would have voted in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162706	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162709	That sounds really, really interesting. I am not going to challenge my luck any more, but just say that it has been heard and if the Radicals vote for one of these, as soon as we get it put forward, perhaps an amendment could be made to the proposal that lies here, then perhaps there is the little disruption that might, for once, cause a government to have to look up a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162739	In other words, we really have in line with the SF's rapporteur over and over again and in several contexts argued for an aviation tax. So I doubt that disruption will work, but one must always be better; one must never ever give up. So perhaps I believe more that we are putting forward another motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162803	Then it's mr. I call Mr Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162807	Thank you for the floor, President. Thank you for your speech, rapporteur. The course it has now followed was said that way. And an expression was also used to whip the horse until we get this one-way charge. Radicals have been criticizing the government after the Climate Council's sub-report and saying that it is simply not good enough. That it's climate bells. But you want to whip the horse so you get this uniform CO2 then I want to ask the rapporteur: is there a brake on time, a time perspective? Is there a limit to when radicals draw a line in the sand and say: Enough is enough, with our mandates you can't make climate bells, you can't keep failing future generations, you can't abandon nature, you can't abandon the climate, here and no more? How long do you want to whip the horse, and when do you draw a line in the sand?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162910	In 2022, the working group on green tax reform will, after all, draw up its final report and will present a uniform green CO2 so that clearly I expect us to see a plan, and the parties to the agreement will have to start talking about which model we choose. And from there the battle must be, and it is going to be really, really interesting, how the different parties behave there and whether everyone can stand the distance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503162944	Of course, I am not asking for a specific date. But what I'm like asking is when I say, "Okay, by 2022, this plan will come, and then what?" Should there be an agreement on an introduction within six months or one year after? Or what if the government says: Well, it comes first on the other side of a choice? Well, just such an estimate: Is the time perspective 10 years, is it 5 years, is it 3 years, is it 2 years? Just so we have an idea. Because you, the support parties, have the key, everything else equal. So it might be interesting to know: What is the time perspective. It is fine that in 2022 they come up with the conclusions, and so what? So how long do you give the government before we have these uniform CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163038	After all, we have also tightened the screw in relation to getting a shortened timetable, looking up against what the government was up to when we did the green tax reform. So for us it is as soon as possible. I would also like to remind you that it was the Radical Left that brought the idea of green tax reform from the public debate into the Parliamentary Chamber. So for us, this is an absolute main engine in the green transition, and it is also absolutely crucial for our support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163114	Thank you to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur we are to welcome to the platform is Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten ▪ De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163143	On the part of the Enhedslisten, we are very much in favour of this motion for a resolution. There are many common features with what is also reflected in our climate plan. This is the climate plan that we drew up prior to the 2019 elections and presented there, which delivers on the three essential parameters: 1) We have to come up with a 70-per cent CO 2 This is what we put forward before the 2019 elections, and it is also the climate plan that is still the basis for the negotiations that are running. For us, it is absolutely crucial that we ensure the social balance, and in our optics it is ensured by the fact that money from flat and thus distributed politically regressive taxes, i.e. biased taxes, is used to raise the green cheque for low and middle income groups, and we can see that this is an approach that the proposer also agrees with. In our climate plan we have a model for how the money is to be spent in the green check. This motion for a resolution could also have explained how it would be done more precisely. In the Enhedslisten's proposal, it is especially the low-income supplement that needs to be increased because it creates the most socially fair change, i.e. the raising of the green cheque. We ourselves have proposed increased taxes on petrol and diesel in our climate plan. The level is a little higher in this motion for a resolution. It is about creating the necessary funding, where road pricing also plays a role. It is also possible to create some funding by speeding up the taxation of pension savings for the temporary costs associated with the conversion of transport, in other words to bring about what is achieved in this area. However, we can support this as a fundamental approach. On the other hand, we are somewhat more sceptical about the precise model of meat levies for consumers, even if the money is spent on green cheques, and this is because we believe that meat production in agriculture should be subject to the levy, not the individual and final consumer, and it should be very much within the framework of a uniform CO2 Climate Council recommends. According to Enhedslisten, the money generated by the levy on meat production must be returned to the agricultural sector itself, and we believe that this is a better and wiser model; in that way we will also have CO2 taxed the meat production that is being sent out of the country, and in that way we will also be hit wider. As far as the airport charge is concerned, we agree that we should introduce one of these, but we can of course discuss different models for how to do so. It has to be done, for example. be equally expensive to fly to Rome as to Tokyo, and should economy class pay the same as first class? There we have chosen to put the cut somewhere else, but basically it is a question of finding different sensible models. We do not, as such, have a very religious relationship with what kind of model it should be. With these comments, I and Enhedslisten can have three different positions on how to act when pressing the button. Well, we can choose to say that that is not all we agree with here, and then we can press the red button; because if we have to press green on this, we have to agree with everything that exactly says in the proposal, and we are not. Conversely, if we press the green button when it comes to voting on it, it must not at least be understood as if we were shopping for all the elements contained in the proposal and that we are only one hundred percent supporting them without there having to be a discussion. Then, of course, we can also choose to vote yellow, but it can sometimes appear a little feisty, especially on such an important issue as the climate issue. But where exactly we end up, I really don't know. This glass can be regarded as half empty or half full, and if we end up voting green for it here, it will be with the understanding that if there were a majority in favour of the proposal in this Chamber, negotiations will be called on the basis of it, and then we will have to take the further discussion there, then it should be understanding or political binding, if I may say we would hang on by pressing the green button. But as you can hear, we are positive about the proposal. But it is a proposal which consists of many different elements and which is very detailed. So you just got an explanation of vote. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163650	You're welcome. It has given rise to a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163656	Thank you. I can understand that, sir. Mr Rune Lund, that the Enhedslisten does not want a meat levy, but that it would like to impose a levy on production. And, of course, we agree with the latter, that is to say, we must have a levy on production. We would like to tax CO2 But when the alternative proposes a meat levy here, and when we do so by the SF, it is not just to change production or hit it. In fact, it is to change people's habits because we have to eat significantly less meat in the future. Does the Enhedslisten not fear that if you do not make a meat tax, people just eat imported meat because you put the tax on production and not on the individual food?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163741	No, it can be said that if you put the levy on production, it will also be reflected in the price, and what is of course the problem here is the question of CO2 Well, what do we do if you do not introduce a corresponding CO2 in other European countries then we will have a problem in Denmark, because we can then risk that agricultural production in Denmark, so to speak, will simply move to Poland or Germany. What we have to say is that if countries such as Poland or Germany are also to fulfil their obligations under the Paris Agreement, they will also have to raise their CO2 quite specifically, we have proposed that the way we do this is that we give agricultural conversion aid up to 2027 and then put CO2 together, that is how our climate plan is linked, so that there will be a phasing-in period where there will of course be some temporary funding there. So that's the way we've chosen to screw it up, but this is very dilemmaous. However, by imposing the levy on meat production, you will also get the higher price and thus also an incentive for a different choice for consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163857	Yes, you get a higher price for the Danish products, but you do not necessarily get a higher price for the imported products, and that is a little what is the hops here. In other words, we can find ourselves in a situation where a package of Danish beef is really, really expensive, while a package of imported beef is not. And that's for me to see quite problematic. In other words, we must ensure not just that we impose a levy on production, but that there is an incentive to choose some other food. And it is true, as the rapporteur says, that other countries also have to comply with the Paris Agreement, but there are only a great many other countries that are slow. So should we not go ahead and say: we are both making a levy on production, but then also combined with a tax on individual food so that we both change food habits and create good incentives in production?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503163948	We have proposed this model, which will bring us into line with agricultural reductions in relation to creating a 70-percent reduction by 2030. Now I'm hearing that mr. Carl Valentin proposes that we should, as it were, have a whole-guarding system, that is to say, that we should put the tax both at the production stage and at the consumer's. In our model, we have only proposed that it should be on production, you can say, and also achieve the reductions through what we have put forward in the climate plan. So this can be done by doing it as we have proposed. After all, we have no objection to imposing taxes on something that pollutes or harms the climate, and there just has to be constant social compensation. And it has to be said that although the proposal here involves social compensation through the green cheque, without specifying exactly how, it will still be the case that taxes are socially unfair. And in this way we think it is wiser with the model that we have presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164045	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164048	Thank you. Now the rapporteur says that if this proposal was adopted and the rapporteur's party voted green, we should just talk about how we solved all the details. I now consider that there is a real risk that this proposal will not be adopted, so the question is whether I should force the rapporteur at all to make the nasty choice to find out whether the green glass is half full or half empty. You could also find out something together and perhaps write a story, that is, where you find out what it is you can share here and what it is that separates us. I find it exciting that there are so many things we actually share. I also find it exciting that it suggests that there are several parties that have the courage to perhaps make a tiny mark on this in a future resolution. So I think perhaps we will not be presenting the rapporteur with that choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164147-2	Well, at least we can both, sir. Torsten Gejl and I have our fundamental, basic calculation principles in relation to where the majority is in the Assembly Hall today. It's just that there are so many good things in this proposal that it feels pretty bad to have to vote against it, right? But it's kind of a bag of mixed candy. So if we can come up with a story or something, and if those who support it can be involved, we can of course be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164217	Well, I would just like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and the rapporteur's competent consideration of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164223	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164226	I have to say that this was a fantastic speech. Those who support the proposal thought: Enhedslisten is in it. And those who oppose the proposal thought: Enhedslisten is in it. I think that was just today's speech. Well, joke aside. I asked the Radical Left a question, and I will simply also have to ask Enhedslisten that question, because it is you who are holding the key. You're out criticizing the government by saying that they're chilling, so I'm just gonna have to ask, do you have a limit? When do you draw a line in the sand? The expert group will present a report in 2022. Is that where you draw a line in the sand and say, "Now it has to be?" Is that before a choice? Is it by choice? I think the people out there deserve to hear that, because now you've picked up this uniform charge for 2022 what's next? Can the rapporteur not put a few words on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164339	For us, the 70-percent objective is absolutely crucial. It was we who brought it to the table in the understanding paper negotiations. When the election campaign started, we were the only party among the parties of understanding who were in favour of the 70-percent objective, and it ended up in the understanding paper. It is absolutely crucial for us, and it is therefore vital for us that that objective is met. So we can say: there is no doubt that the government must meet the 70-percent objective in the understanding paper, because that is the basis on which the government has been formed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164425	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique, who gets another question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164432	Sorry, President, I just came to press in too late. That fg. President That's fine). When the rapporteur made this speech earlier, it was like being present in the Enhedslisten's group room and hearing what it is like: shall we vote green? Shall we vote red? Shall we vote yellow? Can the rapporteur not take us into that room one more time and answer what Enhedslisten is talking about in there, and then answer how long is the string given to the government from 2022 when the expert group comes up with these recommendations? I do not mean such an exact date, but can the rapporteur say whether it is within this parliamentary term? Is it in the next parliamentary term? Is that six months? Is it a year? How long line do you give the government from 2022?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164518	It can be said that the way in which we approach it is that, when the Climate Council makes its assessment of whether or not we meet the 70-percent target, we are based on that assessment and will require the necessary additional measures to be taken to achieve the 70-percent target. So we put the pressure on the continuation of the annual ongoing assessments coming from the Climate Council. In relation to the ongoing discussion that is now, I can, if I may, take Mr. Sikandar Siddique, a little into Enhedslisten's Group Room, say that we have now got a new situation in the climate debate with the agricultural issue that the government has put forward, where, as such, on paper they live up to the agricultural reduction targets well along the way, but do so with unfamiliar technologies which make us again into a new area where we are going to discuss calculation principles behind the policy being pursued. We have been used to this for many years in economic policy, but it will certainly be a topical debate, for example. In the context of the forthcoming agricultural negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164622	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And thus Mr. Rune Lund, by Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503164651	I love meat, spareribs, flanksteak, ribeye, tomahawk, you name it And bacon, stop it! And I might as well say it as it is: there are no totalitarian powers in the SF to decide how much I will eat of it. They will try to impose levies on meat so that we do not want to eat so much of it. I'm lucky enough to have a paycheck that makes it possible for me to buy it anyway, but those who don't have that much money may find it harder to buy these things. And if it's finally that they put those taxes on meat, then I'll just drive across the border and buy it, as it's cheaper down there. Or I'll have a Polack bring it up here with the trucks and then we'll buy it there. Don't do this. It is such a very, very old-fashioned and inefficient way of trying to solve the problems that you say you are facing. Taxes have never solved those things, and they will not do so this time. This is so funny, because in the media there are no limits to it when these parties talk about this climate crisis, as if we now have only 12 years, 11 years, 9 years left. They keep Greta Thunberg in front of them and say that now we have to deliver in the government until they look at the polls, and then they think: No, okay, we wait a little bit. That's the way it goes. I mean, if you really ride with the rhetoric in the media that the world is about to end, you might want to put the government chair at the door and say: Now you have to deliver on it. But if it doesn't get pulled and pulled, you'll have a platform to go to the polls next time. And that is basically what it is all about, after all: a good tool to be elected again. If you would actually look at solutions, then we should look much more at research and technology. It has historically been what has solved the challenges we have faced in world history, and it will also be in this area. And it is also about technological solutions when we look into agriculture. There I have actually found the things that I agree with the government: that it will be technological solutions that we need to look at. Let us, for example: Look at seaweed. There are some insanely exciting research results from research with seaweed right now. Seaweed is a great thing that has some really, really good properties: It absorbs CO2 It is grown in seawater and it should not use fertilizer. And research results show that it has an insanely good effect in terms of absorbing CO2 And the last and perhaps in this context really, really important is that it reduces the amount of methane in the cows' burps. And why is methane so important? Yes, it is, because methane is not as long in the atmosphere, but it is something more effective in maintaining the temperature on the earth. That is why it is important, and if we can now reduce methane emissions from cows' burps, some research results say that we can reduce it by 30%, while one actually says by as much as 80%. And that says very well that this is the way we should go. Now we had just before corporate tax. Lower it, and let the companies innovate in this area... then we'll come up with the solutions. That's the way we're going. We must believe in the future and we must give companies opportunities; there must be growth in society so that companies can take the lead in this area. That's the way we're going. Increased taxes and charges have never solved anything, and it will not be at this time either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165029	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165035	Thanks for the speech. It was a cliché. There are many on Facebook who so take pride in saying: I love meat. I think it's a little stale. But if it is true that the rapporteur is right to say that it is the approach that must be taken and that the tax refund does not work, that is to say, if the rapporteur is now smarter about the climate than all those who know and are familiar with the professors and experts who spend their lives on it, could the rapporteur think that if the rapporteur is wrong, if the rapporteur is completely wrong, that it will not affect the rapporteur himself, but that it will affect future generations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165125	No, because that does not change the premise that you do not want to transform into other fuels and things like that. We have no problem with that in New Citizens. That is why we are massive supporters of nuclear power. I am surprised, however, that when you enter into an agreement on car taxation, you are not more ambitious and say that you remove taxes completely, so that people move more into electric cars if you want them to. I wonder why you have an electricity tax, whose electricity is what you want to put people on. From 2030 we can get almost all our electricity from wind and sun. Okay, but then why do we have to get taxes on it? Why don't we remove the charges and move people over? That is precisely the point: if you remove taxes, people move over. So this isn't about not wanting to do anything. It's just about what tools you use, and there we don't think increased taxes are the right tools. We would rather remove taxes, because we believe that we will achieve better in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165222	I do not know whether it was a statement, but the rapporteur started by giving the SF credit for this resolution. It is the alternative that has put it forward. The question I actually had was whether the rapporteur is wrong. There are, of course, very many people who are not climate deniers and who take it seriously. Researchers are very much in agreement that we have a problem, and they also agree that we cannot solve it by inventing some technology that might work sometime in the future. So there is quite a lot of agreement on this, and that is why the green organisations, the Climate Council, the economic wise men and all sorts of criticism of the government. Can the rapporteur not see that what the rapporteur says is a little free of charge, because if the rapporteur is wrong, it is future generations who will pay the price for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165324	The strawman of the alternative will no longer be right by repeating it. Who said that New Citizens would not do anything about this and that they would not want to change it? Well, we never said that. It is, of course, the alternative that lies in the idea that we cannot see that fossil fuels and everything else have to be phased out. We never said that. But we challenge the way in which the Folketing and the majority will approach it. We think this is the wrong way. In fact, we believe that we can come forward more quickly, and if we draw on those who have researched it, then the UN climate panel itself says that nuclear power is an important part of this. New citizens had a proposal that we should do more research into nuclear energy. It was not voted through. Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165410	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165412	Thank you. I think I just need to point out that I think New Citizens are taking this debate back to an unacceptablely low level. It is said that this proposal has been put forward because it is good to have something as a tool to go to the polls, that is to say this should be some populist idea, which is just about getting voters. Then Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen does not have electoral analysis, for it is very unpopular to want to introduce meat levies. However, we are some who believe it because it is essential to combat the climate and biodiversity crisis because we take these violent challenges very seriously. Then I would actually like to hear something from the rapporteur. If you are such a little economical-liberal, then it is not really an obvious proposal here, that is to say, to impose a tax on negative externalities. There are some market failures in the system today, which are about the climate impact on a lot of goods not reflected in the price. If you are economically right-wing and liberal, is it really not right to go in and tax the negative externalities so that on the market we can freely buy what we want, where the climate impact is reflected in the price? I don't really think it's such a monstrous socialist idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165527	It's an exciting thought, if that's what we're going to be driving all the time. If the SF wants to put up the premise for all economic thinking, that things should only be taxed with the negative externalities they have, and if the SF will be willing to go down that road and make it wide across society, I think it was an exciting thought, and then we should at least look at some car taxes and some other taxes and all sorts of other things, which then have to be lowered and which are insanely high. So if we go down that road, it could be exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165553	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165554	First of all, I do not think that we are really dealing with the accusations made to our political opponents that they are only making proposals to get voters when we are actually discussing something serious. And then I really do not think that we are dealing with whether or not this could be sensible. We do not need to create it as a general principle for all tax legislation, but that we say in the handling of the climate crisis: we need to tax CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165632	Yes, I say things now as I see them, and the day I start to deal with the tone of the debate, it doesn't matter, because I don't want to spend my time on that. If SF doesn't like the tone, it's not my problem. I am answering a question from the SF about how I think it is a problem with this legislation that is going to be introduced here. It is clear that what is going to happen is not that people are going to eat less meat. Yes, SF would like that, but it's not going to happen in the rest of the world. If we put massive taxes on agriculture, what happens then? Then this meat will just be produced elsewhere in the world. It is normal, market-oriented, quite basic economy, and there Enhedslisten had understood it better than SF has. SF simply believes that then we can transform everyone into eating less meat. All I'm saying is that SF lives in a fantasy world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165717	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. If anyone has noticed that I have skipped the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, that is right, because I do not see any participants. Anyway, we've come to sir. Jens Rohde, but he's not here either. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique, who, as a privateist, wanted to speak. The rapporteur for the proposers will be given the floor at the end, unless we have to start a second round, because then we can do it. There's a chance of that, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503165812	Well, it's my turn. On 26 March 2021 was the day that marked the overshoot day in Denmark, for it was the day we had exhausted our budget of natural resources for the whole of 2021. This means that just over a month ago, only a quarter of the year, we had already built an ecological footprint that exceeds our so-called biocapacity for the whole year. Around this means that if all the people on earth lived as we do in Denmark, we would need just over four globes in order to support our consumption. But I don't really think that's surprising for many people anymore. We know that we are holding hands under a way of life that is anything but sustainable. Our consumption of natural resources and our ecological footprints also mean that every day we borrow from the resources of the future or steal other people's livelihoods in other countries. It's unfair, it's absurd. It is a huge failure of nature, our children and grandchildren and future generations. It is irresponsible, it is selfish, and it is simply not worthy of a green forerunner. That is why the Greens support the alternative proposal, which is a step in the right direction until we have an ambitious, uniform CO2 per unit as soon as possible. tonnes. We must price differently so that we appreciate what gives us value as a community, for nature and for our planet. The current value-setting of products reflects an outdated world view, where it pays to keep pulling fossil fuels from our underground, and where the cheapest choice of consumption is at the same time the most climate-laden choice. We see this proposal as a good opportunity to speed up positive, necessary effects on climate conditions and reduce our share of emissions and our use of our planet's total biocapacity. For a long time we have been asking for a proposal on uniform CO2 which is why we think it is a good idea to introduce taxes on key climate-damaging activities until we have an ambitious CO2 in the Free Greens, of course, we are aware that taxes do not solve the problems in themselves, and therefore the simultaneous conversion and expansion of electrified public transport is just as important, so there is an alternative to the car and the aircraft. We are working for this in the current negotiations on transport. The conversion of agriculture is also essential, therefore, to reduce the production of livestock products significantly and to promote more plant-based production. That is what is needed if we, as politicians, are to be able to face ourselves. With those comments, I can say once again that the Greens support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503170158	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no brief comments. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503170224	Thank you, President. When today's alternative puts forward a proposal on climate taxes on meat, air travel and fuel, it is because the Climate Council has criticised the government for going too slowly to meet our common goal of 70%.'s CO 2 It looks as if the government has kicked the uniform climate taxes to corner kicks, to after a choice, although climate taxes are a major cornerstone in reducing CO2 After the government together with SF and Radical Left have made a green tax agreement that does not reach the goal of the really uniform climate taxes across sectors, the government has then set up a committee to come up with a model for uniform climate taxes at the end of 2022. And if we are to make the legislation only on the basis of the committee's final reporting at the end of 2022 and then need to have a hearing and three legal proceedings, then the climate tax, which is the cornerstone of achieving our climate targets, comes first on the other side of a choice. And once there have been elections once, we need a new government and that can delay the process further. That is why the alternative is today presenting a proposal for a climate tax on meat, air travel and fuel so that we can get started now. We can ensure that we address the climate tax in three areas now, so we spend our time wisely and start saving more CO2 2 We propose a tax on flights in line with Sweden and Germany, which have already introduced it and to whom we pay the air tax when we fly home from their countries. On the first annual flight, the Alternative proposes a tax of DKK 75, at the second a tax of DKK 150, and then a tax of DKK 225. for each subsequent journey. In this way, the tax will be highest for those who travel a lot and reasonably insignificant for those who can afford to travel only once a year. We add the meat tax to 17 kroner. per We propose that we return to the Danes who have the lowest incomes, for example, to the money that goes into it. via the green check. In Denmark, we have the agriculture that relatively fills most in the world together with Bangladesh'. 60% of Denmark is covered by agriculture. 80% Of what we grow, we use to put in animals. It is not only CO2 plus emits nutrients that cause oxygen loss in the oceans. For petrol and diesel we add 1 DKK. extra on the price. The money that comes in is returned to people with the lowest incomes, for example. combined with a deduction for those who live in the countryside and who therefore have to travel longer distances in fossil cars for a while yet. Now, of course, it is natural to talk about the money that comes in, and that is to ensure that such proposals do not have a social side. After all, it is not they who have the lowest incomes that have the most pig with CO2 but we do hope and the intention is that money should come in, because we are doing this to change people's habits; we are doing this to change people's behavior. And that is also the point of the uniform CO2 There has been an argument about just starting to buy petrol and diesel in Germany if it is now the case that we introduce a tax on petrol. As far as I can see, Germany has raised their taxes from 1 January 2020 and, as far as I can see, and as I understand it from the reply that came from the tax minister, it is estimated that there will be a border trade going the other way, and that it will actually impose additional CO2 on Denmark. Regardless of that, I think that the parties who vote blankly against this state of affairs will confess to colour. In other words, not only do they accept that there will be no uniform climate tax before an election where we do not know which government we will have, but they also accept that nothing will happen in this area. It won't be more expensive to eat meat, fly or drive fossil-powered cars for a long time if you don't vote for this. And frankly, I think that those who vote blankly no are more part of the problem than part of the solution when it comes to achieving our 70-percent reduction target. I would like to ask those parties who are voting against this proposal to reconsider their vote, to reconsider whether it is really good enough that nothing should be done in this area, not least when we look at the criticism from the Climate Council and from the Environmental Economic Council and from the green organisations and from the many youth organisations that are calling for climate action now. Fortunately, there was a more nuanced response from several of the parties, for example. from the Radicals, who want to introduce an airline tax, as I understood if it looks right. And I also saw SF's speech as positive; I've never seen anyone so close to voting in favour, but then don't do it anyway. But I also know that there are some parties that are maintained in a tax agreement. Thank you to the Enhedslisten for raising the debate to a good level and for being, at least as I hear it, ready to vote for both an aviation tax and a fuel tax. We need to discuss what we can do with the meat. In fact, I think that the debate that took place between Mr. Carl Valentin and Mr. Rune Lund was really, really exciting. I have to say that putting only the levy on production can well cause the problem that CO2 so I like it here with that it is put on consumption. We intend to continue to table a motion for a resolution on air travel as soon as we can. And there I look forward to a discussion on it. Whether it gets a majority, it gets exciting because there are some parties involved in an agreement where at least one of them shows the courage to make a tiny mark. And I also hope that the SF will have the courage to vote in favour of it, as well as to give the government a tiny bit of a pitcher who says that we are past the point of no return. And without creating a major crisis, we would actually like to point that out. To the other parties involved in the debate, I would like to say that I actually think that we have been objective and skilful in our debate and have come up with some real and honest challenges in relation to our proposals. So thank you all for that. I think it will end with a report, because I think there are some things we can agree on that are more exciting to write down. We shall now see that; we shall at least put it to the vote than it is to point out what divides us by putting it to the vote. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503170958	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171004	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not know whether the rapporteur heard the speech by the Free Greens. Free Greens were the most positive in this Chamber and we supported the proposal. The rapporteur did not mention this, so I will just repeat it, so if the rapporteur is in doubt, the rapporteur should know that the Green Group supports the proposal. In addition, there is one thing in the remarks that I was at least confused about when I read them, but it may be that I misunderstood it or that it is so that it can be misunderstood, so I have to hear whether the rapporteur will explain it, so that people out there could also hear it, if there is any doubt about it. In the comments on the proposal, the authors of the proposal state that the first step can be taken from the passenger charges, such as: Sweden and Germany have introduced. As you know, the charges applied by Germany and Sweden are based on the length of the flight, i.e. the distance covered by one's journey. At the same time, the alternative proposes a tax which is personal and based on annual numbers of flights and where the tax increases in line with the number of journeys made. I mean, what's it like? Does the alternative mean that a tax should be introduced on the basis of the length of the journey or on the basis of who makes the journey? At any rate, it may seem as if it is two things that are being proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171123	Firstly, I regret that I forgot about the Free Greens. It was simply an oversight, I regret that. Secondly, I think the rapporteur is right to say that there is a lack of clarity. If it were so fortunate that this proposal would be adopted, it would probably be one of the first things we should have just regulated and in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171144	Okay, cool! I should just like to ask whether the alternative does not mean that it would both be more CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171209	In fact, I think we have to look at both, i.e. those who fly very frequently, very far have to pay the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171224	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171244	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171305	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for another motion for a resolution from the Alternative proposing that a general CO2 per year be legislated for 2021. tonnes in 2030 and that the proceeds from such a tax should be returned to citizens with the same amount to all. May I not say first of all that I agree that a uniform CO2 is the case, because the reductions are therefore made where they are cheapest. However, as we have discussed just recently, here in connection with the previous resolution, it is not an easy and simple task to create a uniform CO2 government, the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, as I said on 8 December, concluded an agreement on a very ambitious green tax reform and, as part of this agreement, a group of experts was then set up to draw up proposals for precisely this: a uniform CO2 regulation. If possible, then the first report can also include recommendations for the level of a uniform CO2 Let me therefore state that the contract circle has already sent a clear signal that there will be a tax on greenhouse gas emissions. The aim of the expert group's work is to analyse how we can best arrange such a tax, and it can be said that the reality is that there is still a lot that we do not know and which needs to be investigated before we can set a credible target for a tax level by 2030. Let me give you an example: there is uncertainty about the level of taxation. Some people think it should be 1,500 kroner. per tonnes, while others believe that 1,250 kroner per tonne is sufficient. tonnes of CO2 Such a difference could mean a difference of nearly 10 billion. kr. at immediate cost to businesses and citizens. However, this is a nonsense, and I think it is worth giving an extra thought, and that is why we have set up our expert group, among other things. to consider this question. If not the signal about the level of a uniform CO2 For here we have decided that a future tax must take into account both sustainable business development and the competitiveness of Danish business, healthy public finances, employment, a strong welfare society, cohesion and social balance, thus giving real CO2-2 leakage, that is to say, that we are losing jobs abroad. So the expert group must, of course, help us to create a solid foundation for such a CO2 Furthermore, the expert group must look at how a tax can be thought of together with the other many political and climate policy measures such as grant pools, contractual arrangements etc., so that a uniform price of CO2 is created. As part of the work of the expert group, it also includes looking at compensation and return mechanisms. In addition, they have also been asked to draw up scenarios which include: must illustrate the social balance, distribution effects, etc. So the government recognizes that it is certainly appropriate for a level of uniform CO2 to be withdrawn from the social balance. At the same time, it is, of course, an issue that I have said here and in the past, which the parties to the agreement and the parties behind the green tax reform have asked this group of experts to deal with. As I said, they are part-reporting by the end of 2021, so that we can then discuss in the contract circle that part-reporting there, i.e. by the end of 2021. Final reporting will then take place in autumn 2022. I think, as has perhaps already been shown in the debate and also in the previous proposal, that it is too early to conclude both a level of taxation and how any revenue should be reversed. But having said that, I look forward to discussing this issue. It will be a very, very big and important debate. This is a very big transformation of Danish society, which we have set in motion, and therefore it must be well prepared. The consequences must be calculated and we must ensure that we are on the basis of as solid a basis as possible when we make those choices. And I am quite sure that the group of experts will present their work to the Folketing and, above all, the parties behind the agreement on green tax reform. With those reasons, the government, as I hope it has emerged, cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171902	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503171907	Thanks for the speech. After all, we have just considered the proposal as to whether the government will support climate taxes on meat, fuels and aircraft. The government won't. After all, we are in a situation where the government gets criticism for its slowness, which is why we thought that we could go a little further by setting a target for 2030 in DKK 1,500. per t emitted CO2 Neither will the government. One of the reasons given by the government is that between the proposal from the environmental economists of DKK 1 250. per and the Climate Council DKK 1,500. per t, is a spread of 10 billion. kr. Careful guess from the climate economists is that we've spent 400 billion. kr. under corona. The government couldn't help but say that 10 billion. kr. must be decisive in determining whether we can take a decision right now, which means that we will need 10 billion in ten years' time. kr. to save the climate? Could you not find a way to remedy the cost of the 10 billion? kr.? Can the Minister not see that it is a little out of proportion that we are likely to spend 400 billion? kr. in relation to corona, but will not spend 10 billion. kr. to save the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172029	Now the questioner must be careful not to mix apples and pears. Some of the 400 billion. kr. I mean, it's a one-time thing. This is long-term expenditure that is being imposed on a business community. That is why I think it is very, very wise to chew this through very thoroughly. The 250 kr difference alone. per t CO2 It has just been included here in my speech as an example that the think tanks, advice and others that have been active in this debate come up with different indications of where such a CO2 is causing very large differences in effects. This makes a huge difference between the effects on Danish business and Danish society. Therefore, my modest request is simply that it is good that, before we embark on something as large as that level, we have chewed it well and thoroughly, analysed all the consequences and had a thorough political discussion. That is why we would like to await the recommendation of our group of experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172145	It's no bigger than the government having nine years to figure out how to finance it. It's not that impossible. Then the government will continue to use this leaking thing, namely that if we do not, some others will do so, but will the Minister not agree with me that climate economists actually made a prediction that a total leakage will be far, far less than we thought? They said 21%. instead of one to one. The government talks all the time as if the leak is one by one, so that if we do not produce it, it is produced in exactly the same way abroad. I am not saying that climate and environmental economists are exactly right, but can the Minister not see that this argument is becoming more and more watered down as we find out that, for climate reasons, we are failing to produce something, not actually instead of one for another being produced abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172239	I'm not gonna be an expert on those analyses. They are certainly well worked out, and I would very much like to discuss them at a later stage. But what I think is important is that when we make this decision, which is very, very big, we agree on that for Danish society, we remember what we have also given each other a hand in, namely that we have to do it in a way that brings Danish industry, Danish employees and Danish society into an ambitious green transition, as this is, in a way that enables us to recognise our welfare society and the principles on which it is based, and the considerations behind our choosing this model. It is, for example, that the green conversion must be something that everyone is involved in, not just those who have plenty of money to pay extra money for beef, for example, but also the children's family, where it is difficult to afford it just once or twice a week. That's the consideration reflected in these principles, and that's what we have to remember in this transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172338	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And then we move on to the rapporteur's list, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172402	Thank you for the floor, President. With this proposal, the alternative would like to see a uniform CO2 tax phased in by 2030 at the latest. tonnes. In addition, it is proposed that the proceeds of such a tax should be returned to the citizens with the same amount to all. Let me start by thanking the Alternative. This is important for people and for societies, and it is a debate in which the Social Democrats are naturally very happy to take part and in which we are also very concerned about finding the right solutions. In the Social Democratic Party we also agree that a higher and more uniform taxation of emissions of CO2 2 In the first phase we have increased the energy tax on fossil fuels for industry, thus taking the first step towards a higher and more uniform CO2 Next step will be an extension of the tax base to areas that are relatively well defined, as well as a shift of energy taxes to the more direct and equal tax on CO2 In the second phase the framework for a uniform CO2 2 This is a difficult task, as the proposer recognises, which takes its time. And if the expert group deems it possible, the first partial reporting could also include recommendations to the level of a uniform CO2 The parties to the green tax reform have already sent out a price signal within the framework of the existing energy tax system and, at the same time, sent a signal that there is a tax on all greenhouse gas emissions. It's important. The group of experts must look at both how such a tax can be linked most appropriately and how compensation and return mechanisms can be created that take account of the distribution in society and the social balance. It is difficult to be at the forefront of the expert committee's work to chisel a CO2 Economist's bid at an appropriate level for a CO 2 to 1,500 DKK. per emissions ton of CO2 and, as the Minister said, it may seem like small differences, but for Danish households and companies the difference between the two tax rates should be counted in billions. If we go beyond the level of taxation necessary to achieve the 70%. By 2030, it is therefore concrete companies and concrete people who are paying the price. At the same time, the tax must play both in conjunction with the other climate measures and take into account among others. the competitiveness of businesses, our employment, which must continue to be high, we must have sound public finances, we must have a strong welfare society, we must have a social balance. In other words, there is good reason why we have put some experts, some wise heads, to help us, and the expert group has first partial reporting at the end of 2021 with a view to convening the parties for discussion at the end of 2021, while the final reporting takes place in autumn 2022. We in the Social Democratic Party therefore believe that it is too early to anticipate the conclusions of the expert group's work on this extremely complex issue, as my rapporteur's speech shows. On the other hand, we look forward to the discussions when the experts have presented their work The Social Democratic Party cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172830	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172836	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. When do we decide what kind of uniform CO2 will that decision be?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172857-2	It may be difficult to predict exactly, but I hope it comes in the wake of the reporting that comes from the expert group. In other words, by 2022 we would very much like to be in place with a basis so that we can take the next important step. Moreover, I am delighted that other initiatives have already come a long way, and I have noticed that the rapporteur from the Alternative both criticizes the government for its slowness and says that we are powerful. However, a broad political majority has succeeded in taking important, right steps in the right direction, and in fact we are nearing that we have reached 50%. of the objective of limiting our CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503172945-2	It would just be nice if there were some of the green organisations, the Climate Council, the environmental economists or anyone else who knows what agreed with the government. There isn't. Well, show me some. Of course, there may be some I missed. But do I understand correctly from the rapporteur that we are going to have a target for emissions of CO2 tonnes by 2030 sometime in 2023 or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173022	As I said in my first answer, since this is complicated and there are many elements at stake, it can be difficult to set a very precise date. However, with our green tax reform, we have already clearly shown in the market that we are looking for a uniform tax on CO2 so we are • and this cannot be repeated often enough; this must be balanced between our companies, which must be competitive, and our welfare society and cohesion. This must be socially balanced, and it is also about jobs. So that's why this is complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173106	Thank you to the rapporteur. As I see it, there are no more brief comments, and that is why we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173129	Thank you, Mr President. This proposal is very similar to B 227, and there are, of course, some variations, but some of the arguments will be repeated. And, of course, B 227 has also been put forward by the Alternative and Mr. Torsten Gejl and discussed in the Chamber today. Since the Left has not changed its position since B 227 was discussed, my speech will therefore be very similar to the previous one. In the Left, we are very much in favour of a uniform CO2 almost a year ago, together with the Radical Left, we went to put pressure on the government to introduce such a tax. Thank you for that to the Radicals. That is why we are very pleased with the agreement we reached back in December with the government, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservatives on a comprehensive green tax reform, which, of course, contains a uniform tax on CO2 Here I must also say that I am of course annoyed that the proposer was not included in the agreement, given that the proposer is such a supporter of a uniform CO2 but, as the proposer also mentions, we have not yet defined the level of the tax. Because we must not just have such a uniform CO2 which is why a group of experts has been set up to illustrate possible models of how the tax can be introduced. The expert group shall submit the first sub-report at the end of 2021 and in the autumn of 2022 the expert group shall submit the second and final reporting. That is a long time and we would like to press for it to be speeded up. Once those recommendations have been made, we can and must agree as soon as possible on the level of CO2 After all, it is the most important that we land at 70% reduction by 2030. Because I fully agree with the proposer that it is urgent. That is why I also expect us in the agreement group to work decisively and effectively to establish the uniform CO2 as soon as possible, so that, unlike today, we can do so on a factual and informed basis where the consequences are expected. I think this is important when we make an intervention that is so important for both Danish companies and consumers. That is right, many thousands of kroner for consumers and millions of kroner for businesses. It can have unintended consequences if CO2 and the Environmental Economic Council have, for example, been involved. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that a uniform CO2 could cost, for example, agriculture and the food industry up to 19 000 jobs. So it's not something we just have to take lightly. We are not reducing the total CO2 which is why we need to base this resolution on a completely enlightened basis. And then I have no doubt that we want companies with us. They're also tripping to get into this. And when I listen to them, they're so 2 The least they can expect from us is, in return, that we make sure that the CO2 The other thing will simply not be fair to our companies, how many are already under financial pressure. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the Left is very much looking forward to the expert group's recommendations being clear and we will have a uniform CO2 as soon as possible and, with those words, I can say that the Left does not support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173633	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173635	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Now the rapporteur says that it was very similar to the speech made by the rapporteur before on the previous proposal, but I do not really think so. I think that in the previous speech the rapporteur spoke from his position of business, and I do not think the rapporteur is doing that here. In other words, the rapporteur accepts that Danish companies should not know the target for CO2 tonnes before 3, 4, 5 years before it enters into force. Well, knowing you're in this mess doesn't mean that Danish companies don't get to know how much it's going to cost per year. tonnes emitted CO2 If the rapporteur voted in favour of this proposal, maybe even before the summer break, companies could know what it is they can count on them to have of the cost of CO2 that has an impact on their investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173742	First of all, as I have said several times, we have no interest in prolonging this process. We are some of those who, in our draft budget, are pushing for the green transition • I think it is one of the most green parts at all. If you go through our fully funded financial bill, you can see that the green transition is very many places. Then I hear the author's uncertainty about how long it takes. We also have that, and that is what I am trying to confirm in my rapporteur's speech here. We want this to happen quickly. On the other hand, we do not want it to go so fast that the figures are wrong. And that is something the proposer must also accept, that is to say, if you go out like that and say that you take the first best figures, then you run the risk of hitting wrong with such important figures for our businesses and consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173844	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173845	Well, what are we waiting for? How long do we have to wait? The Climate Council has been up to something that environmental economists have been up to. And the answer given by the government is to set up a new committee. How many committees does the rapporteur want? Well, why do we have to wait and wait? So we could find a number between where is it, it is laid down by law, that it should take 3 years 2 tons when there are already qualified people who have been out with more commandments? Thank you. The rapporteur). Why don't we do it now? Why does the Left not do it, what should one say, good deeds, it would be to Danish companies to say that it is now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173918	Yes, please! Then I think we're clear. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503173927	Thank you for the question. And I understand the impatience I understand, so we are also impatient in the Left, we also want to get started. And listen, if there was an easy way we could jump over to get the right numbers on the table, why shouldn't we be prepared to do that? There just isn't. We cannot jump to an easy way to get the right numbers, and that is why we have set up the expert group.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174002	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174025	We are dealing here with a motion for a resolution requiring the government to make a proposal to add to the Climate Act that by 2030 a CO2 should be introduced, as the debate has shown, a number of different parties have been out to propose it. It is also mentioned that the money then claimed by that tax must be repaid to the citizens. I have to say that I actually understand the motivation of the alternative that they have put forward this proposal, because it is true that the better time can be given to companies to adjust to it, the easier it is for them to do so, because it is now that they have to make their investments. But I actually think and congratulate Mr. Torsten Gejl is saying that it exhibits this so-called green tax reform as being the emperor's new clothes, for there is nothing to invest towards. There are some temporary deductions that companies can obtain in order to adapt, but to what do they have to adapt? Is that a CO 2 is that 1,200 kroner?? Or is it something else altogether? Is it just the ordinary taxes that we know today that are being set up? You don't know that. So I can really understand the reason for putting forward this proposal because it can provide some clarity and an opportunity for you to invest against something. The so-called green tax reform, which is not a reform, does not provide an answer to any of these questions. After all, we are not part of this green tax reform, so it is not really me that needs to be addressed, and I do not really believe that the resolution is aimed at the Danish People's Party, but it is good that we have the debate. But we must also recognise that it is difficult to produce such a uniform CO2 now I am not an expert in this area, because I am not sitting with the climate element, but, as I understand it, it is particularly in the agricultural sector that it is really difficult. That is both what the tax should be, but probably even more how to make it up. It is not to make fun of the debate, but there is just such a simple thing that a large part of the emissions that come from cows farting and how to determine what a levy should be for a cow farting, or for example. the spill from a pig house? That's what makes it hard, that's how to handle these things practically. This is certainly not to be understood as an attempt to belittle the debate, but it is those low-practical things to which we do not necessarily have the answers today, but where it is important to find out how to deal with this emissions from agriculture in particular or from others where it can be difficult to make it up. Then there is the second part of the motion for a resolution to which I am slightly incomprehensible, and that is why there is any need to add such a declaration of intent to the Climate Act. If you want a tax of 1,500 kroner. per t CO2 If we think that's the way it should be, I guess we can say that. To the thing about passing laws to oblige ourselves to do something afterwards, I just want to say that we are, after all, the Folketing, and I guess we can just do it. It kind of seems like driving around yourself. It seems a little pointless. That's why I'm not quite in on this idea that the Folketing should impose something on itself. I guess there's something we can do. I guess that's why we're sitting here. There is the conclusion, then, that some of us may not be ready for this yet, because we do not know how to calculate and it is again a bit simplistic • the farts of the cows and all sorts of other things. We don't know that. That is why we need some expert assistance. I understand the frustration that companies and citizens cannot be given clarity about what they have to invest from, but we cannot do that in a low-practical way, so it does not make much sense to introduce some fixed price now, because it may end up with a completely different system or a completely different way of making it up. So there is, after all, understanding of the proposal, but we cannot support it on the part of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174359	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174401	I don't know if it's that complicated. It's true that cow farts mean a lot to CO2 but it has to take a long, long, long time to figure this out. And it is true that DF is also not part of this so-called green tax agreement, which couldn't make the CO2 as well, the rapporteur doesn't think it's a little strange that when we have such qualified bids we have an assessment from the Climate Council of 1.500 DKK. per tonnes by 2030, we have an assessment from the environmental economists of 1.250 DKK.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174454	I'd like to start by saying that I'm glad I'm not the one who gets the job to go around and measure how much the cows fart and have to do this stats. I don't think it's the most fun work for those who have to do it. But yes, I'll agree with you that it's a long time and that you should be able to do it faster. On the other hand, it is also important to get the homework done well so that, as I believe both the Left and the Social Democrats have said in the past from the platform, it hits quite a lot. I think you should, when you make such a whole upheaval of society and a new way of raising the tax, because you just hit a my wrong, it has huge consequences for our business and for jobs, and it may be that we are not becoming a pioneer country, but that we become a scare example. So I think it makes sense to think well, after all, because if you make such a CO2 then that is not something you just do on the basis of what a climate think tank has chosen to say now is the right cut. I understand that we need it to be fast, even faster than 2-3 years, but, on the other hand, I think it is really important that we do a thorough job which will enable us to get the right decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174559	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174601	It is always said that this has to be extremely accurate. I have hardly ever heard of anything as precise as these climate taxes. Could you not imagine if you are making a goal where it turns out that it is not necessary to have it so high that you just regulate a little? I mean, is this supposed to be the only thing in the world that can't be adjusted a little up and down?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174620-2	Of course you can always adjust it, but here recently in a newspaper I didn't remember which one it was that just compared to agriculture it was 18,000 jobs a year. In other words, it does not really matter to those who have an agricultural establishment or to those who work in a secondary activity in a dairy or a slaughterhouse. It is people's everyday life out there; it is people's work for which they may have trained; it is what gives them bread on the table. So I think it is quite important that you hit roughly the level you think it should be at and not just so can turn up and down, because then people may have lost their jobs and their livelihoods.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174651	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174703	Thank you. The uniform tax on CO2 and SF have pressed in relevant negotiations to bring together a broad political majority for a high uniform tax on CO2 After all, the agreement on a green tax reform, which is certainly not perfect but is moving in the right direction, managed to some extent, and I am pleased about that. We, like the proposer, want a decision on the level of principle to be taken soon, but we also want to look at the proposals of the expert group, and we have made that clear by concluding an agreement. So we cannot support the proposal as it stands here, although I agree that the government should get started. Having said that, I certainly believe that $1,500. per tonnes of CO2 Several different models have been presented here over the past year, but it is certainly an opportunity and I am excited to see what conclusions come from the expert group. In addition to the level of a tax, I also believe that the reverse mechanisms are quite important, and here we see both the need to accommodate citizens with the smallest income and also the companies that may be put under pressure from international competition. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174832	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174835	It is clear that when SF is in that agreement, it is difficult to stand here on the platform and change it. There you are tied a little on your hands and feet. But can the rapporteur not understand the arguments that it is a long time to wait for businesses? So, if the rapporteur could decide, should it not be moved forward a little so that we might be able to lay down somewhere between the Climate Council and environmental economists or at least have it set something faster?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503174919	Yeah, well, if I could decide, it definitely went faster. There is no doubt about that. However, I think I would say that, although it is a very long time to wait, I fully agree with you, I do not think that companies are just waiting. For the fact that an agreement like this has been reached, which nevertheless makes it quite clear that there will be a uniform CO2 2 It would be good to have a decision in principle soon about how much it will be, but companies are already beginning to adjust to it because there is a serious political process going on. So I actually think it's moving something; I don't think they're just waiting for a decision to be made. However, I agree that things should go faster, and I also hope that we will not wait until 2022, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, but that we may also be able to decide on the basis of the sub-report coming in autumn 2021, where we may be able to get some clear recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175023	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175025	What does the rapporteur think about the dividend model we have proposed, namely that you pay differently, of course, compared to what your consumption is, but that you return equal amount of money to all squarely said so that those who actually consume the most CO2 what does the rapporteur think about such a model?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175051	I think it's a little too simplistic, but I like the principle of it. However, as I said in my speech, I also believe that it may be important to take account of some of the companies that may be affected by some international competition in relation to this. So I do not want to be determined to make such a precise model, but I think that the reversal of funds is generally a good thing, and we have also presented this in the climate proposals we have made ourselves in relation to the use of the green cheque and something like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175114	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and we move on to Mrs Kathrine Oldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175130	Thank you, President, and thank you very much for this motion for a resolution. In fact, I think it has thrown off a very interesting debate so far. I've been comparing this tax reform we've been doing in the past to a moon trip. So I think I'll give it a shot here at the end of the afternoon just to change language a little bit. After all, we were a large number of parties who really wanted to stand on the moon tomorrow, and we went to the tax minister and the government and said: we will be on the moon tomorrow. Then the good people over at the Treasury sit down and say to us, "We can't get up there because we don't have a moon rocket." But we keep standing and saying, "Well, we're gonna stand on the moon tomorrow." Then they say, "Well, we don't have a moon rocket." And then we say again: we will stand on the moon tomorrow. And then there's the answer: we don't have a moon rocket. Thus the debate goes back and forth for a few months until we are some parties that say: okay, so let's build a space rocket, let's build a moon rocket. There were also some parties who stood up and said: we do not think that is good enough, because we will be standing on the moon tomorrow. Those parties then do not help build a moon rocket, and that's too bad, because it could have been a really nice signal if all the parties were involved in building this moon rocket. The proposal here is for me to see a message to the rocket-building group we have set up that this rocket should look like a certain way. We have actually set up the group to give us some suggestions as to how the rocket should look, so to go in right now and impose on ordinary politicians who have little sense of the low-practical and technique of this, to tell this working group what the moon rocket should look like, will simply be untimely interference for me to see. So let it be the imagery so far. So we leave the expert group to build the moon rocket, and we look forward to them making a bid as to what it should look like. If we go into the concrete agreement on the green tax reform, then I will just get rid of the imagery, because if we go into the concrete agreement on green tax reform, the proposers must also be aware that none of them are involved in building this moon rocket, which today can say yes to this motion for a resolution, although in fact we all share the desire to send a clear signal to Danish companies about what kind of CO2 it is, as the rapporteur of the Left described it so well, it is precisely the aim that is so important for the green transition to take place out there. We therefore went to the Radical Left, the Left and the SF together when we made the mandate for this group of experts, in and pressured the government that it was written into the mandate that the group of experts should actually already be able to give a bid for a uniform CO2 that was what the arming was about in the first sub-report. Because you have to realise, just as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has also said, that although we all really wanted to add this fixed figure, it is simply not technically feasible to this day. So far so good. So we have a group of experts who are building a moon rocket. We will not be able to define and tell them what it looks like right now, and we cannot therefore vote for this excellent alternative resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175523	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175529	Thank you. I assume that moon rocket is the green tax agreement, and I am extremely happy that the alternative is not in it. It has received so much criticism, precisely because it did not solve the problem of climate taxes, but came up with half a solution. And now you build on a group of experts, which the alternative seems to be a jar of jam. And you can't enter a jam jar than in an excelark if you're the director of a company and want to know what kind of expenses you have in the future. And that's the problem here. I think that the Radicals are going to defend this so strongly and a little forgetting to defend the interests of companies, because why do they have to wait so long? Well, we have really good bids. We have a bid from the Climate Council of 1,500 DKK. per tonnes by 2030. We have a bid from the environmental economists. It's some of the strongest people to count on this at all. Why should it be so pickled, and why should we wait and wait to get a figure that companies are going to need?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175628	After all, this group of experts is not just anyone; it is precisely some of these climate economists and tax economists that the proposer mentions. They've sat down to define how this CO2 doesn't seem to us to be a pickle jar; for us to see, this is the way to get to the finish, and the alternative resolution isn't. This is the way you work with it in the real world. I'm sorry to tell you. The motion for a resolution has, moreover, been able throughout the debate to get super-sounding statements from my other colleagues in the field of taxation on how things are related. So to continue to call a green tax reform a jar I just don't think it's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175720	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175721	I mean, I have complete respect for the people who sit on that expert council; I just don't respect that they are being used as what I think is a jelly jar. The expert council, which the rapporteur calls the real world, happened to be set up exactly on the day when the Climate Council made its huge criticism that a clear plan for CO2 was lacking. As far as I remember, Radicals themselves were involved in setting obligations for action. Now there was a duty of action on the part of the government. And what do you radicals do after that? They sit back and wait three years to get a figure that we already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175759	2022 we simply have to recognise is the end date for the submission of sub-report No. 2. We have asked for a CO2 but it is in fact now just the process we have agreed and the timetable we have set.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175824	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And after a cleaning, it's Enhedslisten's turn. Here you go, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503175849	Thank you. From the point of view of the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of the B proposal. We have a few comments to make on some of the specific elements of it, so that this speech will also be a little in the direction of the speech that I made during the debate on the motion for a resolution. B 227 it is more in relation to the citizen's dividend. However, we are positive about the proposal and we agree that we need a CO2 per tonne. tonnes. And here we are based on what the Climate Council says. One should be aware that in the climate plan that we ourselves presented in February 2019, we do not actually operate ourselves with a uniform CO2 but it is not the same as that we cannot support a uniform CO2 that can be a good model. But there may just be differences between the sectors that actually make it make sense to look at sector-specific CO2 That's what we found ourselves back in 2019 went up in the most sensible way when we sat with the calculations and had to have everything to fit together. But we can also easily see ourselves in a uniform CO2 we have to look at the different models that are and we also listen a lot to what, for example. The Climate Council and Kraka and others say. And we think it is good to have a decision in principle in relation to what is in the resolution. If I am to make two critical remarks, it is that it is emphasised in the proposal that it will not change the basic work being done by the expert group. And our view with regard to green tax reform is that it involves two problems. First of all, there is a problem with what Mr. Torsten Gejl here today also calls a jam jar, i.e. that it is especially a jam jar, in view of the fact that we actually agreed with the climate and energy agreement of June last year that a green tax reform with a uniform CO2 was to be delivered and then it does not happen, and the parties that signed the green tax reform agreement do not stick to it. We think this is a failure. That was one thing. Secondly, there is no guarantee that the specific tax rebates agreed will go to the green transition; they might as well go to large polluting companies. And that's why it wasn't a green tax reform. These were ordinary corporate tax reductions, as we have known them for many years. And that is what was bought with some of the parties to the agreement, and then you fail the green transition. It was a very, very bad agreement with the green tax reform. But so, we think there's a delay in the process that really supports this hockey stick approach that the government is touring around with. Then there is the whole question of the citizen dividend. There is our approach, in fact, that we think that the money should be moved back via established channels, and that is, in fact, primarily the green cheque. However, we also believe that the money should be returned to business through green conversion pools, for example. As I also mentioned during the debate on motion for a resolution No. B 220. In other words, when we impose CO2 on agriculture, that is to say, it conflicts a little with the idea of a citizen's dividend. In any case, it has to be drilled more into the detail, how exactly you mean it. There are not as many elements in this proposal as there were in B 227. So I dare say that we are positive about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180256	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180257	Thank you for your speech and for the very precise analysis of the so-called green tax agreement I also share. In relation to the fact that we believe that it does not affect the work of the committee so much, whether it will be one or the other, I would say that it is primarily about the committee finding out how to get there and simply making a model 'yes', now there are more models, but they obviously have to make one more. And it's all about whether you're gonna make it to $1,250. or 1,500 kroner. or 1,400 kroner, and not so much the target. So it is in the context that it should be understood. In fact, we think it would be a great help if a target were identified and said: that is what we must move forward towards. I think it would help in modeling. So it is a small influence that, after all, I would say, would be positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180346	Nor should it be understood as a very unkind comment. So, I think it's kind of written in order, like, to counter an anticipated criticism from Mr. Torsten Gejl says that now there's this group of experts, and then we can't do anything in the meantime or mean anything until it comes with a result. I think it is in the light that the wordings are made, and I can see that too. But it was just to mention a few things that, if it were entirely for me and Enhedslisten, might have tightened up a little. But I think I understand why it's written.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180420	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180442	Thank you. I will say that we cannot support the proposal. And then I would like to comment on the previous burp and fart debate, because it was not, the proposer thought, so complicated, but it may actually be. Because there is actually a lot of difference between how much cows both burps and farts, both in relation to what kind it is now I come from the country and also what environment they are in and how the climate is. And in addition, it also depends on what feed they get... it's also very important. That is why seaweed, as I mentioned earlier, is very interesting when it comes to looking at it, because it really reduces methane emissions, it shows the preliminary results at least. There is a huge potential to reduce methane emissions from cows precisely with seaweed. So maybe it's not just multiplying up and seeing how many cows there are. However, we cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180545	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180547	Thank you for the relevant consideration about cow farts and burps. But then I would say that one can then see how much the individual types of cows are shut out and deduct the feed they have received, for example. pliers that make them fart less and then multiply up. Well, it's true that it's a little more complicated, but my point about it was that it's not that hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180614	No, I think you can make such a CO2 Well, if there's something the Danish Parliament is world champion in, then it's putting taxes on the citizens. So that suddenly you can't do it in this area, I think it's mostly a bad excuse, because you can do it in many other areas. But it still doesn't matter that we think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180632	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503180658	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we propose that law should make a decision in principle that there should be a uniform CO2 per year by 2030 at the latest. Tonnes with the reimbursement of taxes to citizens at the same amount to all. It is simply crucial that we all now have a target point on a concrete CO2 which means that the committee which is now working on uniform CO2 2 The Climate Council is proposing 1.500 DKK. per tonnes in 2030, The Environmental Economic Council proposes 1.250 DKK. per tonnes by 2030, and the government sets up a committee. But what do we not know? Well, what are we waiting for? The Climate Act speaks for itself, the Climate Council has spoken, the Environmental Economic Council has spoken, Greenpeace has spoken, the green organisations have spoken, we need climate action now, and the Danish companies also have the right to know what to pay in climate tax by 2030. It is no good that they only get the figures 5-6 years before the tax is to be introduced. After all, companies need to know their costs if they are to develop the green technology that the government hopes will save us in terms of the 70-percent reductions by 2030. And even though we have lots of data and calculations and models on the table, the government is just setting up another committee to work for years to find out how much CO2 and with all due respect for the talented people on the committee, we are in the alternative afraid that it is a jam jar, and it will not be the first time at Christiansborg and certainly not the last one either. But you cannot enter a political jam jar into an excelark and get an idea of the costs a company will have in nearly 10 years' time. But that is only possible with a specific target figure, and that is what the alternative is proposing today, and we are proposing a model in which any surplus is paid back to the citizens with equal weight. This means that those who use the most CO2 2 government justify the delay with a difference of up to 10 billion. kr. in costs per year between what the Climate Council says and what the Environmental Economic Council says. There are estimates that the corona will cost 400 billion. kr., and an expense of 12 billion. kr. Surely, 10 years a year should not prevent us from preventing a climate disaster which is likely to cost much, much more than the corona crisis. When the committee that has to calculate the future CO2 then the Climate Council is just a matter of decoration, and the duty of action we have imposed on the government seems to me to be greatly watered down. Another reason the government uses for us to count and calculate and that we have to hurry so slowly is what is called leakage, and leakage means that if we do not produce the CO2 but it was exciting to hear the environmental economists present to the Climate Committee that that leakage is not one at all. As I've read their numbers, a CO2 would only 21 percent. of it would be produced abroad. That means that four fifths of that production would not actually be there at all. I thought that was interesting, because I have heard that leak argument in many places, and it is not certain that environmental economists are totally right, but that is something that really needs to be investigated. In the alternative, we do not understand why we do not move forward. We propose a tax in 2030 of 1.500 DKK. per ton emitted CO2 The most important thing is that we get a goal, so we all know what to count on in 2030 • the private people, the public, the companies and us politicians • and I think that those parties who do not vote for this proposal, or who at least just pour it down the board, not only accept that we only get a solution after a choice, but I also think in a way that they become part of the climate belly that arouses indignation and vexation everywhere in Danish society among people who understand what it takes to achieve our climate goals. We have talked a little about what is the reality in here and what is the reality outside the walls here, and in here one can say that the reality is that it is terribly necessary to wait perhaps 2-3 years to get that figure. But there is another reality, and that is the one in which a great many green organisations and people who spend their lives getting involved in this are, and so they do not agree, and there are also many companies that do not agree that we have to wait so long. There are a lot of people who think that this is taking far too long, because it would be very, very useful to get a number much, much faster, not least so companies know what they have to expect of costs by 2030. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181235	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181300	The debate is open. First it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181311	Thank you for the floor, President. With this motion for a resolution, the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group would like to see a permanent increase to 130 per cent in the cost of experimental and research activities. The government even has a very strong focus on ensuring the competitiveness of Danish companies, including giving companies an incentive to invest in research and development. As part of the phasing out of aid packages, the various growth initiatives launched and the export initiatives launched per year. 15 June 2020, we have increased the deduction for expenditure on experimental and research activities to 130%. for the years 2020 and 2021. In addition, it should be borne in mind that, as part of the agreement we have been around a few times this afternoon, in the first phase of the green tax reform, we have extended the system of deductions for experimental and research activities, so that the deduction of 130%. now also applies to the income year 2022. This means that it is 2020, 2021 and 2022. So there should be no doubt that the government looks very seriously at the need for companies to have the right incentive to invest in experimental and research activities, thereby helping to strengthen their research and development activities. Of course, the point to be borne in mind is that it is not entirely free to make a permanent arrangement whereby companies' deductions for the costs of experimental and research activities are made permanent to the 130% that the proposers want. A permanent increase in the deduction for expenditure on experimental and research activities is estimated to entail a lower annual revenue of 970 million. kr. after backflow and behavior in the years 2023-2025, decreasing to 880 million. kr. From 2026 onwards. In addition, all the additional administrative costs incurred by the tax authorities for control and other purposes, since the increased deduction will of course increase the incentive for companies to qualify more expenditure under the rules. It is a discussion we have also had in the Parliament's Tax Committee, so it knows the proposers very well. In the motion for a resolution, however, the Left did not specify where the financing of a permanent increase in the deduction should come from. In addition, I must admit that I see no reason to speed up a legislative proposal which will not observe the ordinary legislative process that we usually adhere to, and certainly not when we have recently adopted a legislative proposal which actually allows companies to deduct exactly 130 per cent. for expenditure relating to research and experimental activities also in the marketing year 2022. As mentioned at the outset, the government naturally focuses on the fact that companies have good framework conditions, and the government also agrees that it is important to maintain our position of strength in this area when it comes to research and development. We have some of the world's largest industrial dynamos, which have benefited from close cooperation with our research environments and the tax arrangements that we have otherwise organised in broad agreements in the Folketing. So what is at the heart of the matter is that I miss the way in which the proposal is to be financed from the proposers. As I said, I do not see any indication of this. I do not think it is necessary at this stage, as long as we have already extended it, and on that basis the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181714	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181717	I just wanted to be sharp here, considering why you can't support. It was said that it was because the money was not assigned and because it became a little complicated for those who had to deal with the cases in the Tax Authority. Is that really correct, or are there several reasons that the Minister can address?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181744	For example, there is the reason that we have already done so in 2021 and will also do so in 2022. This means that we have, of course, supported companies' ability to obtain deductions in the years we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181757	Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181758	Now it is the case that when companies plan, they plan for more than two years in the future. This is typical of research, after all, many years from now. Therefore, it might be interesting to hear how the government intends to support that planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181814	For example, we are giving a boost to research and development activities here, and at the same time it is the case that we are still being deducted from these expenditures by an agreement we have made together with the previous government. But what we have to bear in mind in relation to proposals like this is that it is a very good idea to indicate quite specifically how we intend to do that. 1 billion kr. Every year, as this costs, has to be paid, and this does not seem to be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181838	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. That is why we are embarking on the rapporteur's line. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503181900	Thank you for the floor, President. In the Social Democratic Party, we agree that companies must have good conditions of competition and good opportunities to invest in research and development. The government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, has therefore increased the deduction for experimental and research activities in several stages during the corona crisis. First, the deduction was raised to 130%. in 2020 and 2021 in an agreement between the Government and, inter alia, Left. Secondly, the temporary increase in the deduction was extended until 2022 as part of the agreement on the first phase of the green tax reform, which was also concluded with inter alia: Left. In the Social Democratic Party, we are also concerned that there are good conditions for companies to invest in research and development in the future. However, we also believe that the framework conditions for research and development are more and more than tax rates. For example: The government recently presented a new strategy for the life science industry, which, with 38 different initiatives and a broad range of efforts, will ensure that the life science industry will be the world leader for the benefit of patients, the Danish welfare society and the Danish economy. In relation to the development of green solutions and green technologies, in the past year the government agreed with Radical Left, SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative on the framework for the establishment of the Danish Green Future Foundation. The fund is equipped with a capacity of 25 billion. kr., and it must give a backlash to Danish green solutions. It is estimated that the future fund can become a lever for private financing and thus generate up to 110 billion. kr. to finance green businesses and projects. The proposal to permanently increase the deduction for experimental and research activities to 130%. As you know, this will mean less revenue per year, and that is why it will naturally have to be financed for crowns. The annual net revenue is estimated at 970 million. kr. after reflows and behavior in the years 2023-2025 falling to 888 million. kr. From 2026 onwards. In addition, costs for administration and control by the tax authorities are included. The Left has not indicated any concrete funding for the resolution. As the already agreed increase in the deduction runs until 2022, it is also difficult to see the justification for the Left's request that any legislative proposal be made on 1 May 2021, which would result in unnecessary urgency. For these reasons, therefore, the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503182159	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503182201	It is just to say that, as the rapporteur said at the end of his speech, this is a little early in the day, because we have already introduced a reduction of 130 per cent. for 2022. That means that we are further ahead of that, and that is why it is not in this year's draft budget, but it is part of our plans for how to finance things in the future. You can see in the draft budget that we had for this year that we are coming with 11 billion. kr. in a fully funded form. That, of course, is what we want to continue. Under that hat, would the rapporteur be in favour of us looking at the 130-percent allowance in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503182256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503182257	Thank you for that clarification, because I just looked through your motion for a resolution once again and I did not see anything specific about funding. But with the additional justification that has come from the rapporteur of the Left, I would say that it is not the case that we are in principle opposed to looking at the permanentisation of this deduction. We can discuss that. As always, it is quite clear that the finances must be in place. They are not with this proposal as it stands, and therefore we cannot support it on that explanatory statement either. So we have made a temporary increase up to 2022. In principle, we fully agree with the Left that we need to ensure the best framework conditions for our companies, and we have also done a great many things during the Corona crisis, which has helped to keep our hands on companies and jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503182349	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503182409	As I have said, this proposal is that the Left will require the government to make the development and research allowance of 130 per cent. for a permanent solution before 1 May 2021. It is a bit difficult to reach, since it is 3 May today so it should have been introduced 7 days ago. A further funny detail is that the Left has put forward the proposal here on 9 March, so it is such a nicely short period if you think that the proposal should now be dealt with here in the Folketing and we have to adopt it, and then the government will have to come up with a proposal that has been worked on, and then we will have to deal with it. Well, it seems you've just been a bit extra busy in the Left getting this put forward when a little more time has not been set aside. As the Minister also said, I think it is actually a little strange, because it is only from 2023 that it should apply, so there was really a good deal of time, so it is actually a little strange why it was put in on 1 May. After all, however, it is a minor detail which does not make the discussion unimportant. It is certainly important, because we in the Danish People's Party also think that it is good to focus on the framework conditions of companies, also with reference to the proposal we had earlier today on corporation tax. We fully agree that it is important that there are good conditions for running a company in Denmark. It is good that we have that discussion because, in order for us to have a welfare society, we must, of course, be able to earn some money, and it is crucial that companies have competitiveness and can create some jobs. And when people have work, they also pay some taxes, and then we can afford our education, which companies then get something out of, etc. And that's how the wheel drives around, and of course they support each other; the companies and the welfare society. It is quite reasonable, and in that equation it is of course also important that companies have some products they can sell and develop some new ones, whether it is medicine or just some other products • it is absolutely crucial but also whether they just develop at their machinery park and get new ways to produce. That is quite reasonable. But it is also worth noting that with such a deduction it becomes more complicated. Because we can see that with the temporary arrangement, which we have voted in favour of by the Danish People's Party, the problems are already getting under way. How do you define it? I mean, what part of an employee's salary should be deducted from this? So you have to sit and make up how much he spent developing new products, and how much did he just spend selling products? So it gives a lot of demarcation possibilities, and there it will also be a problem for the tax administration, which has to go out and control these things. So it's not necessarily just uniquely good. The great shortcoming which I also think the previous speaker mentioned is that the proposal does not at all show what this costs or who really has to pay for it and what the effect of it is. How much more research do you get out of it? And it could be a good thing to be involved in the debate, because if you have to take a position on an enlightened basis, it is quite essential, both what it costs, who pays, and also what you get for the money. So I also think, as I also said at the beginning, that it might have gone quite quickly, because we had not just had a thought about getting those things into it. So, in view of the shortcomings alone, we cannot support it, but we think that it is important that we should not, first and foremost, make it simpler. In other words, before we introduce new deductions for companies that make it difficult and where there is also scope for fraud, but therefore also just making it complicated for companies to understand it, it might perhaps be more appropriate for us to make the legislation more simple in this area. Because we generally have a complicated tax system, but not least in the area of business, we have really complicated rules that can be difficult to find around. And with this, it's just one more stick compared to making it more complicated. And that is a reason why we do not support it either by the Danish People's Party, because we would actually rather focus on making the rules more simple before introducing new, complicated deductions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503182754	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Well, that means we're moving on to Mr. Knox's. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503182810	Thank you. Research into the resolution of the climate and biodiversity crisis is important and we share the intention expressed in the proposal to promote research in those areas. The motion for a resolution here, however, aims to promote research and development activities in enterprises more generally by means of a permanent increase in deductions. With a permanently increased deduction, we simply will not get enough research for the money. We get more green difference for money through public research, including basic research or targeted grants for private research in this area. Moreover, this is a very large reduction in corporate tax, and it is unclear where the financing of this permanent deduction exists. The SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503182901	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503182923	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much to the Left for an amazing suggestion. That is, in fact, at the heart of the Radical Left's industrial policy. It is a rabbit that we pull out of the hat, practically every time we have a financial bill negotiation. So we should be able to support this resolution. If I cannot support it today, it is because I do not just have a small billion in my back pocket for the proposer. Because it would cost to say yes to it today; I would commit myself to finding a billion. Well, if you're listening, there's actually an S-V-R axis here. After all, very, very warm statements have been made by both the Socialist rapporteur and the Socialist Minister about this deduction. There is nothing political and nothing ideological about it. It's all about the funding and, of course, it's also about the fact that we have covered up until 2023, you might say. So these are the arguments of the Social Democratic Party. But it is not just warm statements; it is really loving. So here we actually have something political in which, in the light of something slightly bigger and a little heavier than a motion for a resolution, we might be able to talk about something. In any case, in the Radical Left, we do not think that the discussion about this deduction has ended in any way but, as I have said, we cannot vote for it today for the same reasons as the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183125	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183127	My heart is glad that Radicals stand by what they have said for so many years, and I promise to have a conversation with the rapporteur immediately afterwards to explain exactly where we find the money, of course. Of course, the Left cannot have a proposal in the Chamber without the money being found. That is what I was trying to clarify a little earlier, i.e. that we have actually found 11 billion. kr. in our draft budget, but that the 11 billion. kr. It is necessary to be in 2021, and since we are talking about 2023, this is something that we are laying down for a debate at a later date, and this is my question: do I really have to hear it that Radicals now really want a 130-percent allowance that they have wanted for very many years, and will really stand on it in the next financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183218	Frankly, we in the group have not begun to discuss what we are going to stand on in the next financial legislative round, but I clearly imagine that this will be a recurring theme as soon as we hit 2023. Left has found 11 billion. kr. We in the Radical Left also have that in our way, and there are other parties who have found it in different ways. But we also have to find the place and funding where we can find 90 overlapping mandates, and the billion, which is 90 mandates, we simply have not found.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183256	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183258	And so do I. If you look at it from the other angle, it is true that the green switch is at least where we put it and at the same time you can say that if we just kind of give them one year at a time, there are many companies that do not really believe in it. That is something that must be permanent. Will the rapporteur acknowledge this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183322	Yeah, totally. Well, it's definitely frustrating for companies not to know what's going to be possible for them in 2023. It is difficult to plan long-term, and it is precisely in the field of research and development that long-term investments are essential. So, yes, it is deeply frustrating, and I acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183339	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183340	After all, when we tax politicians discuss regularly, we have talked about the need for more simple tax legislation, so I would really like to hear whether the radical rapporteur recognises that this makes it more complicated in the way it is. Such as low-practical: How much to change a product, from just ordinary applications, until it suddenly becomes a new product, i.e. how much to have developed on it, so that you can draw 130 per cent. From? Well, it's got a lot of delimitation problems. So I want to hear what could be most obvious if you had 1 billion. kr. to be able to apply to corporate tax reductions in general. Was it then the corporate tax rate that was better, that is to say, such a clean cut, or should a new complicated system be put in place? It is actually just to hear the rapporteur's thoughts, because we often talk about simpler tax legislation, but this is probably going the opposite way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183427	After all, some rules have been adopted on what you can subtract from this deduction, and we are still pretty firmly attached to them. We have discussed this in the Committee on Taxation, in other words where the cut is to be added, but when the rapporteur asks about the more general principle, I would say that we in the Radical Left are in the same place as the Left is doing, and that is to say. If I had to choose, I'd rather have a fou deduction than I would have a corporate tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183457	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183458	So you choose, in principle, that you would rather have a more complicated tax system, a little contrary to what has been said in the past. However, it is true that we have had a number of questions, and I actually asked a question about where the border should be on the Left side, so there is, in fact, some confusion about this temporary deduction and recognising that it is already causing problems in relation to when you can't deduct when you can't subtract from how much you can subtract and whether modification of a machine is innovation. So it is already causing enormous problems, and if you do it permanently, you can say that there is a cut, but the cut is already causing great difficulties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183532	We must clearly continue to discuss where that cut should be, but this is one of the legislations in which it is so that the management of it or the administration of it is absolutely central, even for the companies out there, and when they see that it may be judged or assessed to be somewhere else than it used to be, it is of course that we have to look at it. But to me, it's the right place where it's been all along.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183556	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we move on to the Enhedslisten and Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183619	In the Enhedslisten, we're not very excited about this super deduction for research and development costs, and the reason we're not is that we don't think it's the best use of state funds to support business. Too much of this money will be spent on large companies that have very heavy research and development activities, but which also typically make a lot of money. One might ask oneself why, for example. Novo Nordisk, which has a return on equity of around 70%. and a rate of return of approx. 36, should not have enough money to pay for its research and development activities without the State having to subsidise by way of a deduction of more than 100 per cent. The money can be better spent. We can get more out of research and development activities by supporting research activities more generally. If we are to have a research and development allowance, we should at all change it, so that it was more targeted small businesses, where there is a need to start up development activities and build up a business, rather than that, as this proposal shows, it will be something that goes to companies which are very much established and which, moreover, earn very good money. So Enhedslisten can't support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183751	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183753	It's surprising that Enhedslisten cannot support anything that goes to the green transition and then maybe not when I hear the argument about Novo Nordisk. It is true that Novo Nordisk would probably be able to afford it himself, because it is a very good company, but the problem is not Novo Nordisk either; the problem is all the others. They're the ones we're trying to support. Of course, the rules must be equal for everyone, which is why the rules must of course be the same for Novo Nordisk as for all other companies. I hope that I can get the rapporteur to explain why everyone else should not have the opportunity to do so, because Novo Nordisk can afford it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183841	If you want to support the green transition, you have to look at how, through pools or other initiatives, you can do it more directly. By simply making a general increase and, moreover, a permanent increase in the research and development allowance, as proposed here, we will of course be giving aid to some very large companies which already have a profit that cannot be described as anything other than supernormal. It's kind of the Nutella method of lubricating it incredibly wide, and it's very expensive. It is simply a poor use of funds in promoting research and development.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183921	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503183941	Thank you. Basically, we would like to see company tax reduced instead of tax reductions, which we think is the right way to go in this area, but this is also a tax reduction, and we are of course positive about that. But why take the citizens and corporate money and then give it back through deductions? There is such a politicisation of what you think they should spend the money on and how it best done, but I think the companies themselves know that best. But that is why we are still in favour of tax relief being granted to companies, and that is why we naturally support it. Although this is not something we ourselves would have taken the lead in, we support other civil parties in this area. We must bow to each other and find a common ground, and we can then do so in proposals like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503184034	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503184057	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for a very good debate and some good contributions, and thank you to the parties that have indicated their support for this proposal. Innovation is one of the largest strengths of Danish business. When companies invest in new solutions, they create jobs and increase productivity. It has been absolutely crucial for Denmark that we have continuously become a more prosperous country and that the Danes have achieved a significantly higher standard of living. Many Danish companies are affected by the corona crisis, which means that the economic space for companies to invest in research will be smaller and that there is a risk that they will reduce investment. The Left will make it more attractive for Danish companies to invest in research and development, and we will make the temporary increase in corporate deductions of 130 per cent. for investment in research and development, which we had in an agreement before the summer holidays, permanently. For each time Danish companies invest 100 DKK. in research and development, they can in future receive a deduction of DKK 130. This will boost investment and innovation. It is essential that Danish companies have an incentive to develop and exploit new innovative solutions that can help strengthen them in international competition. This is among other things. in the way we create jobs in Denmark. The left is in favour and has pressed for the 130 per cent deduction. be made permanent. In fact, this was also what the Social Democratic Party did in the last election campaign. For investment is not only at the heart of crises, but indeed also at times of recovery. Investments are the way to new growth, which can give both companies and Denmark new opportunities. It will also benefit companies' green and digital conversion, where there will be a need for large-scale investment in research and new technology over the next many years. Business investment in research and development is therefore essential, as it plays an important role in the objective of a more sustainable future. Investment in research and development is currently under threat from the economic pressure caused by Covid-19. Companies place their focus on surviving the crisis and therefore there is a risk that they will reduce investment. The temporary increase in corporate deductions was set in the world as an initiative to mitigate the financial consequences of the covid-19. We forgot a little about this in the debate, which is why I should like to mention it here. However, it is to be expected that companies will be affected by the economic consequences beyond the date of the end of the temporary deduction scheme. Therefore, a permanent deduction scheme will also help to continue to hold hands under companies at a time when they are still vulnerable. Again, I would like to thank the parties which support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503184449	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503184513	The debate is open. First it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503184523	For that, President, thank you for the floor. The Left has tabled this motion for a resolution, B 260, on increasing the ceiling on the share savings account and the so-called investor allowance. The government has a clear ambition, as before, to secure Danish jobs and create good conditions for Danish business. That is why we particularly want to support, as has been done in the past in this Chamber, the enterprises in the green transition with a green tax reform which facilitates business taxes and taxes with a total of approx. 6 billion kr. Towards 2025. However, the government believes that the most sensible thing is to focus on the general conditions of Danish business rather than to reduce the taxation of a small number of investors through an increased investor allowance. With the applicable ceiling of DKK 400 000, the investor allowance will be paid. already the possibility of a tax saving of up to DKK 60,000. a year for direct investment and, of course, a further nearly DKK 19,000. for investments through what is also referred to as investor deductions funds. I have to say that I think there is a strong economic incentive to invest in companies covered by the investor tax credit without, therefore, increasing the ceiling. The tax value of the investor allowance results in a return on the related investment, regardless of whether the investment itself provides a positive return. With the investor allowance, even a loss-making investment can yield a positive return after tax. Therefore, one can also be concerned that investors may be tempted to embark on, if one wishes, less sensible investments simply because they are entitled to the deduction and thus receive a higher return after tax. It would be bad for the economy and, above all, it would be bad for the Treasury, and it would also be bad for the companies that miss out on investment because they do not provide access to the investor allowance. Regarding the equity savings account, I can say that I have noted that by 2020 many Danes made their first investment in shares and that, according to the banks, 80,000 new equity savings accounts have been opened. There were also 14 new companies on the Stock Exchange in general with large overprints. So the Danish stock culture was well boosted here in 2020, and this is basically a positive development. With the share savings account as it is, a softer return on quoted shares is achieved, and this, of course, gives the Danes an incentive to increase their investment in stock exchange companies. But I don't think most of the investments made through share savings accounts would have been made anyway. And even if that is not the case, we must remember that the money cannot be used twice. If they were not invested through a share savings account, they might instead have gone to pension savings or investment in a small company that is not on the stock exchange. It is also important to stress that investments through the equity savings account are not earmarked for Danish companies, if you like. There is therefore no guarantee that investments will end up in Denmark. So you can go to the oil giant Exxon or send the Gamestopakti to the moon, if you like. Contrary to what the proposers may think, there is not much to argue that the share savings account significantly increases access to capital for smaller Danish companies. Of course, an increase in the ceilings for the two schemes I am referring to is not a free round either. The Ministry of Taxation estimates that doubling the ceiling on the share savings account and the investor allowance will result in a lower annual revenue of 190 million. kr. Investments for amounts above the current limits of the share savings account and the investor's allowance are therefore primarily reserved for this purpose, we know from the calculations we have made people who are high in the distribution of assets, as you would call it. The 190 million. kr. will therefore largely be a tax relief for the more wealthy Danes. I hope it is no secret that, in this respect too, of course, I believe that the money can be better spent. It is the government's view that we cannot support the proposal. As recently as October, together with Dansk Folkeparti, SF and Enhedslisten, we have decided to do the opposite of what the Left is now proposing, namely to cancel the planned increases in the ceilings on the share savings account and the investor allowance. The government thought that was sensible at the time, we still think so, and therefore the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185041	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185043	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are actually 1.3 billion. kr. for stronger companies and green investments in the Left's draft Finance Bill. Yeah, I'm just saying it may be that the minister didn't just remember it, but that's the way it is. The whole idea of this is to have a stronger entrepreneurial culture, a stronger stock culture in Denmark, and we see that actually coming, and what we are trying to do is to support it. And it is true, as the Minister says, that it improves the return if you live an investor allowance, but whoever has the loss if it does not work out is still the investor. That's what we're trying to do about this, and that's why we're saying that when there's more money, that's when you withdraw from $400,000. for 800,000 kroner. and from 125,000 kroner. $250,000. on the two types of deductions, then it will be better. And with regard to the 80,000 more accounts, think of how many more accounts in the stock savings account it could be. That's great for Danish stock culture. Wouldn't the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185205	As I have just said, the stock culture is well underway, and it is very good that the question is whether to spend the money on an increase, whether it is necessary or not, and a majority in the Folketing has decided that the increase in question will not continue, and we do not do so for the reasons I have mentioned. But then I think it should be borne in mind that for entrepreneurs and investors there are quite a lot of other options to ensure that you can place money in start-up environments and small and medium-sized enterprises, which is why this is not the only option here, and the fact that there are so many other options to place your investments and to do so with the help of the Danish tax rules, is also what makes Denmark constantly score quite high on the list of countries that generally ensure good conditions for companies and the establishment of businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185302	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185304	Thank you. Here we see a clear difference between what the government and Social Democracy want and what the Left wants. The Left will create a greater supply of labour • The Social Democrats will take people out of the labour supply. Because this part was an element in the financing of Arnepensionen, where we took people out of work. We want to increase the investor allowance so that we get more people into work so that they can be self-supporting. Does the Minister see that difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185338	He can at least see a very, very clear difference between the fact that what the Left wants here is class-specific distribution policy, because it is to give tax relief to those who earn the most in Danish society. Fortunately, there we had a majority with the help of the Danish People's Party who felt that we should not continue to go along that path and therefore the ceiling was not raised. That was the reason for the decision that was taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185404	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we go to the rapporteur's round, and first it is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185423	Thank you for the floor. With this proposal, the Left wishes to increase the ceiling on the share savings account and the investor allowance. The wish justifies the Left with the intention to make it easier for start-ups and small companies to raise private capital and to strengthen the Danish stock culture. And with the proposal, the contributors will also make investments that support the green transition more attractive. In the Social Democratic Party, we fully agree that we must include industry in the green transition and that there must be good framework conditions for our businesses. That is why we have among other things. established climate partnerships, concluded a climate agreement for energy and industry and strengthened access to funding for green projects with the Danish Green Future Fund. In addition, we have together with others. The Left agreed on a green tax reform, which at the same time sends a price signal to business and facilitates business taxes by 6 billion. kr. towards 2025 to support the conversion of companies to more sustainable production. As part of the early retirement agreement, the so-called Arnepension, the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, SF and Dansk Folkeparti agreed to maintain the current ceiling on both the share savings account and the investor allowance. Unlike the Left, we have no desire to reverse this marked improvement in the possibility of dignified retirement for those who have been the longest in the labour market and who are most worn out after a long and hard working life. The proposal here will also result in an annual reduction in revenue of 190 million. kr., and the funding of the proposal is rather unclear. The proposers refer to the financial priorities of the Left. The main source of funding in the project was the reserves that the government had placed on its draft budget, and these reserves, as you know, are committed by the government and the parties behind the final Finance Act. So, in conclusion, the two proposed tax reductions have a relatively uneven distribution profile. For example: 74 per cent will be the case. of the loss of revenue of this 190 million. kr. annual by increasing the investor allowance according to the Department of Taxation estimates, the one percent of Danes who have the highest incomes. The tax relief will thus be greatest for the already most wealthy Danes. Let me also mention that on Thursday before the big prayer day in our Intergroup set up in the Tax Committee, we had a meeting with entrepreneurs in Denmark which very encouragingly said that Denmark is a world-class country when it comes to creating businesses; when it comes to setting up as an entrepreneur. We are a pioneering country for entrepreneurs, it was said very clearly. It is easy to set up a company in our country, everything is digitized, and you get very good guidance from the tax administration. It was throughout that it was actually really, really good to be an entrepreneur in Denmark. And that's good to hear. That is also what this is about, and I think that we have got around well with the perspectives that exist. But the motion for a resolution here cannot be supported by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185750	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185753	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Now it is precisely because we are a country where you really have some good conditions for being an entrepreneur that these deductions make sense at all. If it were the case that we were not a country where you could be an entrepreneur on the terms you have in Denmark, then this would not work the same way. That is why you have that connection, and that is why we are saying that this is the moment to help us get some more entrepreneurs so that we can create tomorrow's Novo, LEGO and all these big businesses. That's what we need out there. And that's what we're trying to support. But the deductions themselves are not such a tax idea. It is a way of helping people to invest in a company and to set up businesses. Jobs are created. Will the Social Democrat rapporteur recognise that coherence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503185857	Absolutely. In politics, then, it is also a question of seeing things in a whole. After all, we are also in favour of our concrete measures and support the reduction of business taxes by 6 billion. kr. We must always bear in mind that we have a good framework for our business and we must also keep in mind that it must be easy, simple and attractive to be an entrepreneur and to create new businesses and jobs. And that is why we have been involved in raising the ceiling on the share savings account in the past. Now the priorities have been different, and we have instead made an early pension for the most worn out people who have been the longest in the labour market. And we see no reason to go in and increase further on the share savings account. And that is really what politics is all about, in other words, making the most effective measures and taking due care when the time is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190002	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190003	Thank you. After all, the stock savings account was made a little like a pendant for what was done in Sweden. Sweden has a super strong stock tradition. There you have a stock savings account that can be many times larger than the one in Denmark. Does the rapporteur not think that it would help if the account were made somewhat larger than the slightly more than DKK 100,000 you can have today in the account?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190031	Like the tax minister, I have also noted that by 2020 many Danes made their first investments in shares and that, according to the banks, 80,000 new equity savings accounts were opened. There were also 14 new companies on the Stock Exchange, generally with large overprints. So the Danish stock culture is very successful, and it is a positive development.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190059	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190118	Thank you. Then it is the last proposal today after a long day. And this proposal is about requiring the government to raise the ceiling for the share savings account and the investor allowance, and again it is before 1 May 2021, i.e. 2 days ago, so you have to say again to the Left that it may have gone just too fast, but there are also other reasons why it seems that things have gone a little too fast. It is, of course, a question of imposing an increase in the ceiling on the share savings account and the investor allowance, but to what? You forgot to write in what the ceiling should be raised to. It's kind of funny. Should it be raised by 1 kroner.? Is it 20 kr., 50,000 kr., or 100,000 kr.? So one simply forgot to include the point in the proposal. So it's kind of hard to deal with it when you haven't even written what it's supposed to be raised to. So in this way we can at least make it clear with this proposal that perhaps it has just gone a little too fast. Another thing I thought was a little funny when I read it is that you write that with this proposal you can demonstrate that green conversion and economic growth can go hand in hand. I must honestly say that I have not noticed that the share savings account should be such a big contribution to the green transition. There are many things that may be so, but the fact that the share savings account is just supposed to be the green switch's rescue has not come to my mind, I have to say frankly. In the Danish People's Party we do not want to raise the limit on the share savings account. We actually see this as an unnecessary hybrid in relation to the share tax. After all, there are a lot of different rules in tax legislation, and I say it almost every time I'm up here, so it's almost impossible to see through. Stock legislation is generally a profit tax, and then there's this hybrid in the middle of it all; within a fairly limited limit there's stock taxation. I really don't think the Danes can figure out what the benefits are of one thing or another, and why you have to choose this over another solution. So we actually see it as a hybrid, which one should have thought into such a kind of simplistic exercise to get it all out of the way. On the other hand, we are in fact in favour of the investor allowance. This is a positive step which we ourselves helped to take. I personally call it such a cousin-cousin allowance, because it is, after all, a deduction in relation to your personal income, that is, it is not about such huge holding companies that are being deducted for something. It is typically the case that when you get a good idea, you can go to your aunt who may have some money on the book, or to his cousin or another family member who can then get a deduction from his personal income. Well, typically it's these little companies that can have a hard time going out and fundraise a lot of money in banks or with investors who can't see the trick in the idea. It may be a little easier to reach out to some family, cousins or cousins. In fact, we think that is quite reasonable, also because it is precisely targeted deduction in relation to personal income. So we can actually see ourselves in this in relation to raising the investor allowance, even if, as the Minister is right, it hits the top income decibels. In other words, it affects those who have most money, but on the other hand we also have to get some people to invest in our companies in order to get some investor companies and some jobs going. So such a cousin-cousin allowance, as one might call it a little simplistic, we actually think it is quite reasonable, that is, where it is typically some in one's associations that will help to get the company going. We really think that's reasonable. We have another appeal, in addition to forgetting to write what the limit should be, that is, what it really is you want with this proposal, and that is that you have also forgotten to write what it costs and where the money should come from. Of course, it can make sense if you have not taken a decision on what the limit on the share savings account should be raised to or what the investor allowance should be raised to, because then it is hard to say what it really should cost. For these reasons, it is almost impossible to deal with the proposal, in which case you have forgotten to write what you really want to raise the limits to. So on that basis alone we cannot vote in favour of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190455	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190457	Now perhaps I think it is not the undersigned and the Left who have been too quick in this context. Maybe it's just sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, who has been a little quick. For what Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær decided, or the party decided, with Arnepensionen, was not to withdraw, and that is what it refers to. That's the reference. So maybe it's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, who is a little quick here not to have read into the depths of what is actually referred to, I just want to say. With that explanation, I can also explain that this particular proposal is part of our financial bill, and that is what we are referring to, and that is where we have plenty of funding. It says 11.1 billion. kr. This is exactly what we're doing here. I hope that the rapporteur, with those explanations, may be able to say: well, that was not so fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190601	The government has been ordered to introduce something two days ago. Maybe you were a little quick there. You haven't gotten what it's all about. I refer to the motion for a resolution which we are debating in the Danish Parliament and on which we are potentially going to vote, and so it does not say that it will be raised by DKK 1, by DKK 2. or 10 kroner. In fact, the Danish People's Party also voted against raising it from the 50,000 to the 100,000 DKK. How would I instinctively know it was about raising it with what? 50,000 or 100,000 kroner. More? I don't know. I haven't read the Left Finance Act. One could at least have made the effort to write to the Folketing what is actually being proposed, instead of just assuming that we ourselves read into a behind Left Note, and then we find out what we are dealing with in the Folketing. You could have given the service message to write what you raise it to, what it costs, where the funding comes from and what the effect of it is. Neither one has bothered to take the trouble to write into this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190655	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190656	I shall try again: these are not the proposals of the Left to which I refer, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær. After all, this is the legislation that governs the investor allowance and the share savings account. It says these rates, and what was decided with Arnepensionen, like Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær himself is in, wasn't to raise. What we are saying is: No, it was a wrong decision, they must be lifted. And then the bill says what to raise them to. You can just read the legislation referred to. Dennis Flydtkjær was there himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190730	But there is no reference to a bill. It's really good custom I've been in Parliament since 2011 that people write their own suggestions. The Left has forgotten that. It is also good practice to write what it costs and to propose funding. We can then decide and disagree on that, but none of it has been done here. We can then refer to a legislative proposal, but now it is a motion for a resolution tabled by the Left. Why have we not just written in ourselves what we are proposing and what it costs and what we are funding it with and what the effect is? After all, it is difficult to have a debate on a parliamentary proposal, in which it is not clear what this is really about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190804	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Then I can see that the next rapporteur in the Chamber is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190829	We have been in a Finance Act on the part of Enhedslisten, where we stopped further increases in the share savings account and the investor allowance, and the money that came out of it has been spent on sensible priorities in terms of welfare and climate and environment, and we are, of course, at the goal of the agreement and of the funding that we even thought was very good. Investor deductions and savings accounts are tax reductions, which are mostly of benefit to the wealthier citizens, and that is why this is a solidarity way of financing an agreement as we have done. We would like to see both schemes removed completely, and I shall not hide that. In our view, taxation of capital and share income is already too lenient. You can, for example. in relation to share income pay a smaller percentage than you do if you are a low-paid sosu assistant in Ballerup. This seems unreasonable to us in relation to income free of work, and it is schemes that help to increase the economic divisions in society. So the Enhedslisten votes no to the proposal, and I should like to welcome from the SF and say that the SF cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503190941	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191009	We can support the proposal. After all, we had seen from the start that investor deductions and equity savings accounts were higher than they are. Now, I think it's about 100,000 kroner you can put into a stock savings account... 102,000, as far as I remember. It's a lot of money, it certainly is. But it is clear that the savings you get if you choose to invest DKK 100,000. in a stock savings account compared to just having it on a regular share account is quite small. So if it were really to move something and really motivate people to invest more in shares, there would of course be a greater motivation, and you would get more people to invest in shares if you raised the amount. We would like to see a better stock culture in Denmark. It is essential that we create new businesses, that there is good access to borrowing some money, so that you can start a business, and one of the best ways to finance yourself is by shares. So if we can do something more to reduce the tax on shares, it will be good for Denmark. It will be good for the Danish economy, for Danish jobs, and we will be a richer society of it. So we can only support this and regret that there is no full support for it. For the sake of good order, I must say that this does not mean that when we get a bourgeois majority at some point, we have committed ourselves to this being priority number one. Because we feel that we are taking the tax cuts we can get, but there are also other things that are even higher on our list. So this wasn't part of our own financial bill, but we think it's a really, really good idea, and we've always meant that. So thank you to the Left for making this sensible proposal. We look forward to voting in favour, and then we have to go with our forehead that there is no majority in favour of it, because for incomprehensible reasons the majority in this House do not want to do anything as sensible as has been proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191210	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. Well, maybe I can have Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov to wipe off no, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Okay, thanks for that. Rasmus Jarlov We're inside the bourgeois bubble, so it's okay). Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191226	Well, then we have a proposal here to increase the share savings account. I feel a bit like this proposal, as I did with the previous proposal: it is a fine proposal, but it is also to make things more complicated, I think, than is necessary. I fully share the view of the Danish People's Party that it is such a hybrid that we put in, with a different form of taxation and such things. I think we should just reduce capital taxation instead. Let's get this crack that's gone, i.e. this jealousy bag and all sorts of other things. Let's bring it all down to 25%. Then we have one flat tax on it, and then we leave. Then we do not need to put in such a scheme as all sorts of different things have to be done. It will be a much, much better arrangement and a better solution instead of doing these things, which are a little hassle, where people have to find out if you just get above that level and where you have to place your money and in relation to stock taxation versus tax on sales and such things. So I think it is a hassle and I think it makes the system more unnecessary. And we always say in here that we need to simplify the tax system; we need to simplify and even if this stock savings account is well-intentioned, it doesn't simplify it. So let us reduce capital taxation instead. It will benefit small Danish companies and also benefit the citizens out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191351	There are no brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Sir. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191408	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for a very good debate and some good contributions, and thank you to the parties that have indicated their support for this proposal. The Left has tabled this motion for a resolution because, as part of the financing of Arnepensionen, the government has chosen to maintain the ceiling in the share savings account in the future of the DKK 102,300, to which it is indexed to apply in 2020, and to maintain the ceiling in the investor allowance of DKK 400,000. and 125,000 kroner. According to agreement on business and entrepreneurial initiatives, the ceiling for deposits in the share savings account should have been raised by DKK 50,000. annual up to and including 2022. That means a further increase in the ceiling to DKK 150,000. in 2021 and to DKK 200,000. in 2022 • plus a little indexing. According to the Business and Entrepreneurship Agreement, the ceilings in the investor allowance scheme were to be increased to half of direct investment for up to DKK 800,000. and half of the indirect investments for up to DKK 250,000. From 2023 onwards. This retention of the ceilings seems to the Left a really bad idea. The government has simply made it more expensive for the Danes to invest in companies. They have cancelled the tax concessions already agreed for investment in entrepreneurship and frozen the ceiling on how much the Danes can deposit in a share savings account. This means that it will be less attractive for ordinary Danes to invest in shares than it would otherwise have been, and it weakens the stock culture in Denmark, which is already far behind other countries with which we usually compare ourselves, for example Sweden, and it is going hard on the new companies that desperately need new start-up capital. We need more risk capital to be made available and for the Danes to be more committed to investing in creating jobs in Denmark. That is why, as planned, the Left will increase the ceiling on the share savings account and the investor allowance. This should make it easier for small and newly-started companies to raise private risk capital and strengthen Danish entrepreneurship and the Danish stock culture. Again, thank you to the parties that will vote in favour of the proposal here, and also to those who have shown their sympathy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191721	There is a brief comment. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191725	I would like to ask the rapporteur something about that, if you could not get the same benefit by lowering taxation instead. Then I understand that it is said that it is true for everyone, but there are some cracks now, so you could put a crack in there, if the Left thinks it is too wild, that it is too bourgeois and too ambitious, and then you could put a crack in there, and then you could have a quite normal lower taxation for perhaps up to the DKK 100,000-150,000 that you are talking about. Why does it have to be in this stock savings account, what's the point of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191757	Exactly the difference between ordinary taxation and the share savings account is this: one is stock taxation, and the other is the taxation of realisation, and that is what makes it possible to say that it is only 17 per cent. Honey, you pay on a stock savings account. It then creates some special motivations to invest these crowns, which means that there are some people who come along and invest in shares that would otherwise not start investing in shares. It is a special incentive for some groups among the Danes who would never touch stocks otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191831	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191834	So it's 27, so it's 10 percent. But then you could just make a crack at the $100,000. On the 17th. You don't hear us complaining about that, anyway. Then we have three cracks, or we can also settle for two cracks, but then you could have cracks that were 17, 27 and then 42 or 44, as it is now. I'm just wondering why we should make this hybrid with another form of taxation, if you could just have lowered to 100,000 or 150,000, depending on what the Left thinks it should be, and then make a 17 percent. normal taxation on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191906	Well, that's because you don't get the same effect. You simply do not get the groups to invest in shares that you would otherwise get to invest in shares if you did what New Citizens are proposing here. You simply want to get some groups in and invest that you don't get in and invest. I think I'm being interrupted. Fourth Vice-President Yes, it is indeed the rapporteur who has the floor). I just want to say that when I get the question, I have to answer, and what I am replying is that there is a different motivation for investing from a savings account than there is for investing in accounts with free funds, and there is another tax. You simply get someone else to invest in shares than you would otherwise get to invest in shares.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503191950	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Kim Valentin. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210503192004	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Tuesday, 4 May 2021, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
