ParlaMint-DK_20210528100003	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: The Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil) has informed me that she wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the reform of the primary school. 19). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 3 June 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528100057	The debate is open. First we give the floor to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528100106	Thank you very much for that, President, and thank you to the citizens and promoters who have raised the citizens' proposal and to all those who have supported it. The authors of the citizens' proposal want us to devote sufficient time and resources to providing care and support for those who are born. The content of the proposal is to require the government to put forward a bill guaranteeing the birthers and the new families rights for which there are a number of concrete proposals. I note, both after discussions with the individual parties and, of course, after listening to the reports in the newspapers and the media, that among all parties here in the Folketing, both those who have been in government recently, those who have not been and those who have come to, etc., and also among stakeholders and in general public opinion, there is a broad consensus that the svangroomsorgen and the food sector should be improved. I think that is a good thing. As you know, from the political understanding paper between the Government, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, improvements to the conditions of birth will be a priority in a health agreement. And we have announced by the government that a health agreement will come this year. We have indicated that we want to strengthen the field of birth, and this is a work which is just part of the preparation of the health agreement. Good preparation for birth and parents, so we are now talking about before birth, is a prerequisite for a good course of birth. This is particularly true, but not only for first-time feeding. Of course, it is the case today that all regions offer birth and parental preparation, and many of the regional maternity departments offer maternity and parental preparation on a smaller scale. That is very, very positive, and we are getting good reports about it. But it is especially maternity and parental preparation on very large teams that are not optimal. I believe we have evidence of this. It's not ideal to have these very, very large birth preparation teams. So even before birth, we have problems in some places. We simply note that much of the information is lost on the large teams. It goes without saying that not everyone gets their hands up in such a large lecture room to ask questions about things you're nervous about, or to ask private health questions. So there is something that needs to be corrected before births. We have seen that there are several maternity wards that are beginning to have different offers. For example: is there in connection with online birth preparation such webinars, which are also offered where you can ask questions along the way. We have, of course, had them extraordinary during the epidemic, and what we are told by Danish Regions is that there are actually some positive experiences. But here, too, it can be an advantage with smaller teams where you can get the direct contact. So to the extent that you also offer something digital, I just think it's fine, but it should be improvements and not deteriorations, because smaller teams are important. If there are too many people, you will not be asked about the things that are essential for you to go safely into the birth area. So it is a very healthy and good investment in prevention for health care, but of course also for the individual family. In addition to preparation for birth and parenthood, we also have midwife consultations, and they are at least as important an element in the preparation for birth and life with a newborn. This is where the midwife can track down the needs of future parents and where future parents can ask questions about the things that matter exactly in their course. And if you look at the midwife consultation, you have to say that there are a lot of things in our society that have been developed and improved, but a midwife consultation today has set aside exactly the same number of minutes as 40 years ago as 40 years ago. There was also some paperwork back then. It was primarily about writing a little in some hiking records, and then you could spend the rest of your time investigating the pregnant woman. Today, when there is the same time period as 40 years ago, in addition to communication and contact, there must also be time to document both in the health records and the electronic health records, and at the same time the number of scans has also increased, which is positive, but we cannot squeeze more into the same number of minutes. In addition, we can simply see that we have several pregnant women who have a chronic or mental illness with them into pregnancy, and that leaves little time to deal with the questions and concerns of the pregnant woman. So a strengthened birth preparation, small teams and the possibility of a strengthened and more flexible midwife consultation should be the focus areas that apply before birth. Then we have what happens during birth. Of course, births vary from day to day. There will be days when additional staff will be called up, because it is a basic condition on a birthday, but during birth it is essential that competent staff are present, that there is peace of mind about the course of birth, and that the giving birth has a strong experience of safe and secure birth. Some of what the midwives point to when we have dialogue meetings with them is that today there is too little manning and preparedness in relation to the peak load, and that there are many transfers of women in active birth. We cannot ignore the fact that there will be periods of peak stress, because, as I said, it is a basic condition, it is a condition of a feeding process. We cannot plan exactly after the births arrive, but it is felt that there are many places of birth that are being very pressured, also for and the staff rating that was used to deal with peak loads has in some places become everyday, and that is not the way it should be. There must be sufficient staff at work to ensure time for the giving birth when she is in active delivery, and there must be a standard that ensures that transfer to another maternity ward is only very rarely necessary. It can't be a standard you work for. The organisation of the work on the country's feeding routes should therefore also be a focus area. It's during childbirth. After birth there must be a strengthened focus on the follow-up and on how we support the new families better when they come home from the maternity ward. In relation to the post-natal course, it is important that there is a safety net, from mother and child coming home from the hospital, until the healthcare provider takes over, and we must be honest to say that today families are experiencing excessive shifts in the transition from regional grief to municipal health care. I mean, it's system thinking, but it's gotta be turned around. Health care currently meets more and more newly baked parents who say that they do not feel that they have control of the newborn and breastfeeding when they come home from the hospital, and it is critical hours, critical days that we are talking about here, where we as a society simply should not allow you to fall between two silos or two pillars. Newborns and parents thrive, we know that when they are comfortable with the situation and when they know where they can ask questions and when they get visits. If you experience it, you are also able to handle everything that follows, and that is why we also need to look at the future, so that we look at both before, during and now after the process, that is, the way in which we support the new families when they come home from the maternity home. It has to be a focus area too. We have a proposal from the government to help with this: a proposal that new mothers should have the right to stay in the hospital or a maternity hotel for two days if they so wish. Some want to go home quickly, others need extra time to feel safe during breast-feeding, etc. before they get home. That is not the whole solution, but we think it is an important step in a solution. And it is important to have an offer that matches the different needs of future and new parents. There are some things that are similar in the course of birth, but there are indeed also things that are different, and we need to set up our system and manning and preparedness for them. It is absolutely crucial that the birther has a choice, both if and when they are safe to go home. And it requires that there is time and space to support and guide the departments. It does not just help to give birth rights if they do not have time to address the issues for which the rights are actually intended. So that's what's important. Let me conclude by emphasising that yes, we must improve the conditions for giving birth, the work is in full swing, we have held stakeholder meetings, and we are working on the basis of the many inputs we have received from midwives and doctors and others who are working on this, and new mothers too. The Danish Health Authority makes recommendations on the svangroomsorgen for organizing the food area, we expect them to come before the summer, and when they are available I will present them to the parties as a starting point for discussions on how we can improve the conditions of the feeding. Then we have also announced that on top of the recommendations, on top of the discussions with the Danish Parliament, we will negotiate with the Danish Parliament's parties on a health agreement, where improving the conditions for giving birth will be a priority on the part of the government, and I hope and believe that it will also be for the future parties to the agreement. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101047	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101053	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I believe that anyone who has followed the media's reports of women who are born in a taxi and suddenly have to change their place of birth agrees that this is certainly an insecure situation to stand in. Now the Minister then mentions that the food sector will be included in the context of a future health plan. But I also think there are some who would like it to be a little stronger. I know that when you are in government, you are planning a financial bill early, so I think that you are probably well at it now, so that it is ready and qualified for the presentation in August. So I would just like to ask quite quietly whether it is not appropriate to give priority to the food sector before we get to the big bang and to the big debate. Because before such an agreement has to be implemented, then there will already be a few years to go, and it is here and now that there is a need for more hands to come, for example more midwives to the country's maternity wards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101152	Thank you very much for that question. Yes, it will be the case that in the health debate that we call and invite, the conditions for giving birth before, during and after, that is, the swan groomsorgen, will be an important point. It will be a fully funded proposal from us, with funding for the negotiations we are going to have. We're not gonna get around the fact that more money needs to be spent. Something is organization, and I have mentioned that. There may be something with staff groups and other things. But there will also have to be funding. We cannot just tell each other that we can lift an area that has been pushed to the limit for so long. We need to be ready to spend more money, so of course the government will be ready for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101232	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101234	But that's not exactly what I asked. Of course, there will be funding with a health plan, otherwise it will not make sense to make it, and you cannot say that you will give priority to the food sector if there is no money. So I guess I guessed. What I was asking is that it will take some time, on the one hand, negotiations and, on the other hand, to ensure that the legal work and all the things that need to be done in the context of such a health plan is done. So it could take a few years to come. And I am thinking from the Minister's speech that the Minister agrees that it is here and now that there is a challenge. That is why I would just like to ask whether the government has any plans to give priority to the food sector as early as next year with the draft budget, which will therefore come. And now I hope for a slightly clearer answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101318	I'm trying to answer as clearly as possible. I just need to understand the question. If the rapporteur asks whether I am going to explain our draft budget here, I will of course not. I also believe that the rapporteur knows the workflow well enough to know that this is not going to happen. But what is going to happen is that we call for negotiations. We will set aside funds to cover the increase in those areas, among others. the food sector, which will be included in the negotiations. Then it is a government's job to find the means. However, as the rapporteur himself has said, the budget law is an obvious place. Our goal is not for years to pass before this boost can happen. This must be done as quickly as possible, and we are ready to provide funding for that up front, if I may say so, President-in-Office or as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101403	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101406	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's answer to the question. I note, of course, that the Minister reiterates that the government also attaches importance to the right to two days' maternity leave after the end of birth. It is, after all, in those days when you have the opportunity to prevent rehousing and frustrations and traumas and anything else that can result from a birth, which is a difficult thing, but also a very good experience. I think it is a good thing that the citizens themselves are pointing out what they really are for some experiences we have and why improvements are needed right here. But when I see the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority from 2013, they are very much in line with some of the things we have proposed here. But these are recommendations. Are we in favour of the 2007 Health Act failing us because we have eroded the area over time and now need to make the recovery area for area? Then I just welcome the fact that the government is ready to do so in precisely this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101512	It is quite true that there are already some. Well, it may sound like there are no recommendations, but there are some new updated recommendations, and we are all looking forward to them. But if you dive into those that are now in force here and that now have eight years on the back, you just have to see that yes, you fulfil it, but at least it is not over-fulfilment that is happening around here. And you might have shaved down all sorts of places where you could, in annual savings and other things. And it can last for a certain period of time, and then it can no longer. That's what we're seeing now. It can't stand it anymore. Therefore, it is our ambition on the part of the government that now comes the health-care paper from the Danish Health Service in their svangroomsorgsrecommendeds.•They will be good to have but, in addition, it is a political task to ensure that we put a boost on it, where we get funding some of the things that they then point to from the Danish Health Authority can be good ideas and can have a good effect. Then it's our job to fund it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101614	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101615	There is no doubt that one has cut down on, for example, something like midwife visits prior to birth, and there has also been a reduction in care for the child after birth. Well, we can figure that out. When some women are sent home 4 hours after birth, there are a whole lot of tasks that are simply not being lifted. Could it not have been expected that recommendations from the Danish Health Service are at least what will also be met in public health care today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101648	Yeah, you can expect that. I think that the meetings I have with midwives and new mothers, and this citizens' proposal and the huge support that the citizens' proposal has received from the people, show that those who work on the birthplaces and the newly baked parents have some experiences that are in sharp contrast to how it really should and when we have such an important area, namely the beginning of the family, the beginning of life, which in this way stands in sharp contrast to what we would like to be, it is our job and our duty to ensure that we get this right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101726	Then it's Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101728	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. After all, it is wonderful that the Minister is moving much more towards the Left's initiative in the field of birth, i.e. I could actually take four or five of the issues that I noted down that specifically include in our proposal. So it looks positive. It's also a good play we've made, I just have to say. After all, this is an important area, as the rapporteurs have also spoken today, and the Minister has also spoken, and the Left has also spoken several times, and yet it is all the more regrettable that the Minister keeps pushing a debate, some negotiations, a talk in the circle of rapporteurs around this particular area until sometime in the autumn. And I just want to say that I am still worried about whether we are going to get started at all after the summer holidays, because, unfortunately, corona can push things into the future, and I think that we actually have an opening right now, and I cannot understand why the Minister is not already calling for some preliminary discussions to take place after the last votes next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101831	Thanks for the call. I have also seen that the Left has made a presentation, as are many, many other parties, and as I mentioned, our understanding paper also mentions the precise field of birth, so I do not think there are any parties that really have such a patent to fight for the birthers most, although it may be a good competition, because then you can hope that there will be a lot of people who get ideas and are also ready to finance their ideas. What we have to deliver must be funded. There simply has to be money behind it. We cannot sit and have a good talk with each other, that is, we can easily have that, but I insist that we have to put action behind the words, and the area here is simply too important for us to see once again that it flares up briefly and then cuts down the following year. We need to draw up a long-term plan that also provides real, lasting funding, and that is why it must be linked to overall health reform. When the Danish Health Service makes its recommendations, we will of course invite the parties over so that they have a professional discussion of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101934	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101936	Firstly, the Left is also ready to allocate money to finance it. I have also said this several times when we have been in the media with our proposals. Secondly, I still do not understand it, so I do not really think the Minister really answered me. Now, I just want to say this briefly and specifically: why does the Minister not convene some preliminary discussions before the summer recess?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528101954	The Danish Health Service will make its recommendations before the summer holidays, and when they arrive, I will call the parties for a review, and that is, of course, a preliminary discussion. There will be no money on the table for the discussions they will be taking on the subject of health reform, where we, on the part of the government, will commit ourselves to a fully funded health reform which will significantly lift this area, and I look forward to all parties, hopefully all parties, or most at least, will be ready to join in that promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102026	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102028	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for the speech and also for the support for us to have birthrights in place and to have the problems at birth corrected. In fact, it is quite gratifying that there are so many of us in here who want to do it somehow. One of the things that worries me in the debate is that, as the Minister also mentioned in his speech, there is a lack of staff to ensure that those rights can then also become reality when we finally have them written into a health law, and the manning problems we are already experiencing in the maternity wards. Yesterday, I think it was, you could read how chief midwives in the country's hospitals can't plan shifts during this summer vacation. Although there are not even any rights to fulfil yet, they cannot plan on duty during this summer holiday because a great many midwives and midwife students, also newly educated, say they will not take work in the public sector until they get better working conditions and something more in pay. What is the Minister going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102138	In relation to this summer, I would like to say that I am also concerned. This does not apply to all the maternity halls, but there are some maternity halls, and it is primarily the ones in the capital. It is not a secret. I have to say I am concerned about this, and from the Ministry we will do what we can to help the regions and the maternity halls that are facing acute problems. I understand that in the Capital Region they have set aside more funds for various boosts. I think it is wise and sensible to do so, and I understand that it is also a broad settlement that they have made about it. So I think it's wise they have done, but what we need to make sure is that all those who are going to give birth in this summer can also be safe wherever it is in Denmark. When there are such reports, as I have also noted, in the press, we have to delve into the problem, and we will be ready to do so. I cannot negotiate wages for midwives; neither do I, and Mrs Pernille Skippe knows that too. But what we can do is to ensure that we do everything we can to help if there is a need for help in some places here over the next few months.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102240	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102242	In other words, it is true that both the Enhedslisten, the Social Democrats and other parties in the Capital Region have set aside some more money to hire more, but that only solves the half problem, and it certainly does not solve the acute problem that is at a number of births, especially in the capital, as the Minister also says. And then it may be that the Minister is saying that he is not negotiating wages, but another minister is doing so. At the moment, therefore, the problem is that the fact that you continue not to want to deal with that problem means that there is food that does not get the help they need and the support they need to get to the births, and that you are likely to spend a lot of money on hiring temporary workers so that it becomes even more expensive for the public, in order to make it run around at all. So what will the government do if the Minister can't do anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102333	We have the Danish model, and it is the social partners who are negotiating. There have just been collective bargaining and votes on this, where some negotiating communities have joined, and that is entirely up to the employees, that is. also the midwives, to place themselves in the places where they think they get the best influence and the best result for their members. I have no way of dictating or interfering with that. I can only observe and see how they negotiate and how they are in the negotiating community and whether or not they are satisfied must be their own decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102408	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. Then we can start with the rapporteur's series and the first is the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102433	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to begin by thanking the organisers of the citizens' proposal for highlighting a very, very important issue. I would also like to express my deepest sympathy for all of you out there who are giving birth, and you who have had a really bad experience after you have given birth. These are experiences that touch both me and my colleagues very much, and one can also clearly hear that this is something that the Minister also takes in. Being a mother is often associated with a tale of a lucky rush and an unconditional love, and becoming a parent is described as one of the greatest and most precious things in many people's lives. But right now there are also a large number of women who tell a different story: women who feel powerless and who experience failure from a health system that does not provide the care or preparation for parenthood that they need. The stories in the press and the stories to us as rapporteurs show that for too many years the area has been downgraded and that there have been many savings which, as the citizens' proposal also mentions, have contributed to a lack of available maternity wards, the relocation of women in active birth to other hospitals, tranquilized and stressed midwives and premature repatriations and poor conditions in neonatal departments. So this is something we have to do about at all. Personally, I have been gifted and honored with a young woman who has volunteered with me for the past few months in my parliamentary work. Next to that, she has been in a pregnancy course, and while I am standing here, she is currently in birth at the Skejby Hospital, and I would like to thank her and the many others. It is quite unique to be allowed to follow such a pregnancy very close. So, as the Minister also says, we need to dress well the staff in the field of birth. I also think that it is very, very clear that this is about one before, one wonder and one after. That is why, in the Social Democrats too, we believe that we need to start offering pregnant women and giving birth to the care and preparation that is needed. We need to focus the area of birth, the perseverance area, and that is why I am also pleased that the Minister has made it clear that this is something on which the government is very, very clearly focused. We need to have a comprehensive discussion about what is best, and therefore I am also confident that when the Danish Health Authority makes its recommendations in the field, we will dig deep into it. There are a number of places where we need to do something, both in terms of broad, general care and the broad, general area of health and safety, and then we also need to look at the cases where we did not succeed, in other words to look at how we can deal with it when children die at birth. As it stands, we are following the proposal closely. We need to discuss what is the right way to go. In terms of how we approach the concrete citizens' proposal, we need to discuss it in committee, and we also need to have it discussed with colleagues. I think the Minister has been extremely clear that this is a very high priority for the government, and I would very much like to say to people out there that such a committed speech touches me. I think that in a very busy time we have had a focus on something that is so important. In fact, I would also like to say that I think it is essential that we speak up the competences in the field of birth. There is a lot of staff and a lot of good people trying to do all the best. There is also a big difference in how it looks around Denmark. With those words, I would like to thank you for the floor and to thank those who have tabled the citizens' proposal. It makes a difference to get involved in democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102906	Thank you. There has just been a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528102910	Thanks for a really nice speech. After all, I asked the Minister when we could expect money to come to that. I really believe that the birthers are less concerned about whether it is in the context of a health plan or a financial law. The next proposal we are going to deal with in this Chamber today is Conservatives' own proposal for more midwives, and what the Maidens Association recommends will cost in the vicinity of 112 million. kr. I would just like to ask whether we can count on funds to be allocated to the food sector as early as 2022, or whether the government only expects to take it under the auspices of a health plan, which may of course risk not having to be negotiated in autumn or winter, but only having to do so next year, so that it will not be included in the finance law until 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103009	Thank you very much for the question. I see that the field of birth is a matter of great concern to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party and that she is also quite specific about the proposal that we will be discussing later today. I think the Minister has made it very, very clear that it has a high priority in social democracy. It is in our understanding paper, and it is also something we had before the elections. I also think it is important that we stand on a professional and factual basis in making our decisions. The rapporteur asks how this should be financed. I can be honest with you there and say that I leave that to the Minister to help negotiate under the Finance Act. I have every confidence that he is competent and capable of that. I look forward very much to taking part, together with the other rapporteurs, in this debate. In fact, I think we stand very well there because it is a broad majority in the Folketing that wants something to happen in the field of birth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103112	Mrs. Mai Mercado? Apostates. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We can go to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Marlene Ambo-RasmussenRasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103130	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the citizens for presenting this citizens' proposal here. The subject we are going to debate today is very close to my heart, and I have looked forward to standing here in the chair and debating it, including in a consultation later this afternoon. It is also a problem we have had in a debate several times in a very short time. Only in April we debated a motion for a resolution in this Chamber on the call for negotiations on birthrights. Unfortunately, we have not yet heard anything from the government, and that is why we are still here to put pressure on us to put in place the essential rights to give birth. It doesn't make sense to have bilateral meetings in this area. One was left in April 2016, I think it was, and had a majority in favour of calling for real negotiations, and then it is just a pity about the parliamentary work being done, among other things. in this Chamber, and the commitment shown by also our rapporteurs, that we have not made any progress. I just have to say that. So, at the risk of repeating myself, I would like to stress once again that the Left is ready to guarantee much better birthrights, and that can only go too slowly. As the motion for a resolution shows, the situation is serious, and I will go so far as to call it a serious failure of prospective and newly-baked parents, a failure which may potentially have lasting consequences for parents, but probably the worst for the newborns. It is not just the children and the parents that we fail here. The well-being challenges of the workers in the country's maternity wards are crying out to heaven, and they are also crying out for action. The government has not yet taken the initiative to do anything. I hear the Minister talking about some future negotiations once, but, as I said, the Left would have liked to put it here before the summer break, that is to say the preliminary discussions, and we would also like to see it as a separate discussion from the health agreement itself. So while we're waiting for the government, we in the Left have launched our own birth play. In our proposals, we come up with seven concrete proposals on how to improve the area. Our goal is to ensure a good and safe experience both before, during and after birth. After all, for the sake of speaking time, I will save you in this Chamber to go into the details of our proposals, but there are equal elements I would like to highlight or highlight. In the Left, we believe that you should have a team of midwives with one responsible midwife throughout the process. It will create better coherence, and it will also ensure a good progress both before, during and after birth. We also believe that both mother and father should be offered screening for postpartum reactions. Today, many mothers are actually offered a screening, but we know that it also affects the partner. And there we have challenges because there are actually many places where screening is not the case. We should not neglect that. I'd also like to recommend that you check on Odense. Where I come from, we have introduced screening of both parents. It has actually enabled us to spot an incipient postpartum depression even before birth. So that effort has been well spent and is making savings in the long run. In the Left, we also believe that a general guarantee should be introduced for future parents to be offered maternity and parental preparation on a smaller scale. Birth and parental preparation has a positive effect on the further pregnancy and delivery course. This is especially true if they have had the opportunity to participate on these small teams. But it really shouldn't be necessary to legislate about this at all. That's what I've said before. But when you just see these horrible examples around the country, from among other things. The Capital Region, well then, from in here we have to respond to it precisely in order to guarantee the birthers some rights and some guarantees. Then we also believe that greater security must be combined with more freedom for those who give birth. We will strengthen free choice and give the individual family the freedom to choose. It's about putting the birthers in the center. The birth process must be built around the family, instead of having to adapt to the system. If the birthing couple is best off with a model other than the one that can be offered in the public sector, then they must also have the free choice to choose, for example. a private maternity clinic instead. And, of course, without undermining food offers in hospitals. I can make it clear. In the Left, we think it is shameful that the government has not responded quickly enough to the obvious problems in the field of birth. That is why I also hope that a majority in this Parliament can stand together to press the government for us to start discussions now. Why should we push the negotiations into the autumn and perhaps into 2022? Why do we not involve those who want this area and have something to offer? I also believe that the interest groups that have shouted in arms want a broad agreement in which all parties that have offered anything or have a desire for improvement in this area will have the opportunity to meet with the Minister. I can say very clearly: in the Left we are voting in favour of the citizens' proposal. Finally, I would just like to reiterate my thanks to these citizens who have helped to put this on the agenda. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103640	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103645	I'll be brief. Thank you for the rapporteur's commitment in the field of food, and also for the discussions we have had on the corridors at Christiansborg. I also think that is essential to say to those who listen to it, namely that this is actually something we discuss in everyday life. Now that I have taken and not just told the rapporteur when we talk, it is all about hearing what the minister says about this being about standing on a proper, objective basis, that is to say that we get the testimony from the Health Service about what is going to happen in the area of care, and the rapporteur nevertheless points out that we have to call before we have it. Is it not the case that we really make the best decisions when we know the basis on which we stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103738	In fact, we are quite aware of how bad things are around us. And we actually mean many of the same things. Now I can hear the Minister playing out some of the things that we in the Left also made on the table, i.e. the same areas, among others. This whole baby-preparation thing in small teams. That is precisely the kind of thing we can sit down and talk about, because we do not have to wait for recommendations on that in the whole area. We know, and research also suggests, that it has a great positive effect, for example, that it has a positive effect. If you have birth preparation in small teams, then that is the kind of thing you could sit down and have a discussion about. I do not think there is any reason why we should wait until October, and it is actually now that we have a little air in the calendar, when we have had this wave of votes we will have next week, that we can sit down in peace and quiet and give priority to this area, and I think it is necessary that we do not wait until sometime in October. I'm still worried it's gonna be 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103832	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103834	I also remember, at any rate, that the Left is a financially responsible party which is good at making decisions in such a wide range, but starting negotiations without knowing where you stand does not match that. The rapporteur also says that a great deal is known, but in relation to what we have to do, I can at least be concerned about whether this is the right thing to do. I'd rather do things thoroughly and then do them right the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103909	In connection with exactly the preparation for birth in small teams, I would like to say that we know that research says that this is what works, and so there are also some places where they have been able to figure out how to do it, and then there are other places where you run it in huge auditoriums where it really has nothing to do with preparation for birth. That is not something we need to wait for, because these are things we can already sit down and have a clear plan on how to proceed and what to allocate funds for. Quite frankly, as we are going to push a huge hump of an area that requires a great deal of us all, and we already have a busy calendar and many things to be taken into account in the autumn, I do not think there is any reason to wait for what we actually know about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103943	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528103946	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left and also thank you for your support for the citizens' proposal. After all, we fully agree in the Enhedslisten that there is a need to introduce fundamental rights for the child and their partners. We also proposed this when the Left sat in government, which is why it is always nice to have a new alliance. What I would like to ask is, of course, how we are going to put these rights into practice, because it has now become obvious that we must do so. If we are to make sure that there is proper follow-up, proper maternity preparation, that there is a midwife present and that you are not sent in a taxi, and all those things, then we have to hire some more midwives too much more than there are today. And we are facing an acute problem right now, because even the standards that are today and that we would like to do better, hospitals cannot deliver, because very many of the midwives and newly trained midwife students will not take up employment in the public sector until they have better conditions and that applies both to working conditions and to pay conditions. And that's where the Left didn't want to get to the root of the nettle. What will the Left do about it? Well, how is the Left gonna get these many midwives that we need?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104100	Well, if you think I haven't wanted to improve the conditions for the employees themselves, I'd say that's something we've been talking about in our game. But it is true that we have not mentioned it specifically and that it is because I actually believe that the number and the very fact of hiring more midwives is something that lies outside the regions, and not something that we are debating in here. But I actually think that when you set some rights, it comes naturally. In other words, it is rather the same as in the debate on minimum standards, where rights are also laid down and a fixed threshold is set for how many employees there should be for x number of children. It is not the case that we sit and make an individual agreement afterwards that it should then cost x number of additional educators, but it comes all by itself. It goes without saying that if you set some rights and allocate some funds, then more midwives will also be employed. Then we have a challenge because there are not enough available midwives. So, I can also see that a very specific figure has been mentioned in the motion for a resolution later today. And it is a problem that there are people fleeing into private life. I have also had meetings in connection with this project in the field of births about people who have fled to the private world. But if you give birthrights to those who give birthrights, add funds to the area and tell the regions to give priority to this, I also think that the other gives itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104206	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104208	It's just a parallel reality. So, excuse me for one third of Denmark's midwives and midwife students have signed that they won't work in the public sector, even if there are rights to the birthers before they get a fair salary. And if, as the Left, you want to make big moves and promise that now it has to happen, and press for it to be faster and all that I welcome, then you must also have an answer on how to recruit the many new midwives that are needed. Will the Left help to do something about the unfairly low wages they receive in relation to the corresponding length of training and responsibility? Or are you just gonna hope it happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104301	Wage negotiations are a really, really exciting area, but as I have said before in this Chamber, and the Minister also said, wage negotiations are not something we are discussing in this forum. I agree that this is something that the Enhedslisten would very much like to bring into the Parliamentary Chamber, and I also fully agree with Enhedslisten that improvements need to be made in this area. That is also why we in the Left are ready to add more funds to the field of birth and are ready to guarantee the birthing rights, because then the other will come at the same time. I also think, frankly, that in terms of employment in the regions themselves, this is something that the regions must and should take care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104335	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104337	Thank you. I would like to join the choir of happy Members of Parliament who pay tribute to the fact that the Left is finally joining the struggle to ensure good conditions for birth. I myself have fought the battle bravely, I think, since 2016, so it's nice to hear the new tones. If the rapporteur then says that it should not be necessary to legislate, then I think: no, it is certainly not in line with the health law that the Left itself brought back in 2007. This shows that it is precisely the Danish Health Authority that has to make the clinical guidelines and guidelines in relation to the maternity wards. Nevertheless, we are in a situation now where hospitals cannot keep up with or are unable to deliver the good quality defined by the Danish Health Authority. Was it a mistake to decouple the political influence in relation to important health areas, as was done with the law there? And is the Left thinking that we can do the same in a number of other health areas forward-looking, so to correct the fact that the law has in fact decoupled the political influence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104449	I don't know if I should answer yes or no to that. I may not really know enough about the legislation in this area at the time. However, I certainly agree with the rapporteur for the SF that it is important that there is a political hand in dealing with it from in here. Then I think I would just like to mention the small detail that we are talking about it as if the Left did not give priority to the area. Well, we actually added 50 million to the area. kr. back from 2016 onwards. But that is why we are by no means in the finish line, because the horror stories that are out there are still missing. In fact, the citizens' proposal also mentions that in 2016 the additional funds were added.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104528	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104531	Oh, added? It is perhaps a truth with modifications, for the Left had first made sure that the improvements made by the previous government had been cancelled. So it actually became a minus in the account before we finished that equation. But it's really one great thing. Now we are in a situation where we can see that the food area is kneeling and that resources are needed. Parents cry out for better conditions; employees say there is a need for better conditions. We may now have to legislate in order to ensure proper conditions for feeding. Is the Left ready to legislate in the future to ensure better rights for the child in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104616	Yeah, well, we're ready for what we're going to do, and that's guaranteeing some rights and guarantees for the birthers. So it is all seven points that are contained in our proposal. The final point is about the whole organisation in this area, and perhaps it is not something that one legislates about; there you have to look at how many places you have in the country where you can give birth. That is also something on which we would like to have a discussion. Because we are just afraid that there are some challenges at these great birthplaces. Finally, with regard to the second point, the fact that something had been removed in advance, I would say that it was little birds on the roof because the government changed. So maybe it's such a rather in-eat discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104653	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528104726	Thank you, President. It is a pleasure to be allowed to listen to a debate in an area in which I do not have the privilege of taking part every day. I am here to replace Mrs Liselott Blix and, on behalf of her, I should also like to make the comments of the Danish People's Party on the citizens' proposal here. And they are as follows: thank you to those who have tabled this citizens' proposal, as well as to all those who have ensured that we stand here today and have to decide that giving birth to certain rights in our health services. It should be perfectly natural for our health services to ensure that all born people were given a safe and safe pregnancy and childbirth. What is more important than ensuring a good and safe parenthood and children who grow up in a secure environment from the start? It has therefore been extremely frustrating to read articles about the many birthing who, especially in the capital, have experienced totally unacceptable conditions, which have also contributed to the enormous challenges facing us today. Some regions have not been able to fulfil the task they have been given, and that is why it is important that we make legislation from here that guarantees these rights. For far too long, the Danish Health Authority has made recommendations that you can follow. Here and now, with this proposal, we should and must guarantee rights that we also have in other areas. There is a focus on the whole process both before and after birth. The proposal is intended to guarantee the birth of and new families the right to pre-natal and parental education, continuous midwife support during pregnancy, birth and the first time after birth, to choose between home birth, a free-standing midwife-led maternity clinic or a hospital, to choose between staying at the place of birth after birth, or to go home with the right to follow-up home visits, individual assistance from the place of birth all day, and support and treatment in complicated procedures. Birth preparation is something that most regions have, but not in the form that makes them elected. We have young people today who would rather sit in facebook groups with other pregnant women and give each other advice. Here we need to ensure solutions that are also digital, rather than being put into groups that you do not feel comfortable with. There are some who want couples, others want to be with some at the same age. If you have an economy for that, there are many who buy themselves for private birth preparation. But not everyone has that option, so there is a need for an update on what a birth preparation should contain. In relation to midwife support, it is more than usual that you do not see the same midwife throughout the process, unless you give birth in a private clinic, which by the way only Region Sjælland has as an offer. It is also mentioned in the proposal that this should be ensured in the best possible way. When we then mention Region Sjælland, it is also something that is mentioned in the proposal as something that all regions should offer. Region Sjælland has proven that it is actually cheaper for the region when you choose private, so you cannot blame the economy here. Staying overnight at the birthplace was something we debated a few weeks ago when the Socialist People's Party put forward a proposal. It was also something on which the Socialists voted, that is to say that we should have offered at least two days' accommodation. Strangely enough, it was a region with Social Democratic President, Mrs Sophie Hæstorp Andersen, who would only give it birth for a few hours in the maternity ward. It's very individual how long you need to be there. Some can settle for a few hours, while others need more help in order to be safe with the little new one. Many are sent home prematurely and therefore do not breast-feed and find it difficult to get the help that is important. Therefore, help must also be guaranteed if you choose to go home shortly after birth. So all in all, there are a great many good proposals in this resolution, and we fully support them. We know that the Minister, the last one to look at this matter, said that there will soon be a new guide and that there will be no economy. However, as the proposers, we believe that this is something to which we should be entitled, and since it has not always been part of health care, it is the responsibility of the region to live up to proper action in this area. The money is in the system, and if there is a lack of economy, it is because it has not been given priority. We can postpone knee surgery, but we can't postpone birth. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528105150	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we can move on to SF's rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528105208	Thank you for that, and thank you to all of you who have managed to gather support for this important citizens' proposal. The birth area has been facing too many challenges for too long. This is clear to us here in the Folketing, but it has also become so clear to the general public in Denmark. The citizens' proposal for better births shows that we need to address the challenges in this area as quickly as possible. The longer it takes, the more damage both staff and citizens suffer. In the SF, we very much agree that sufficient time and resources must be devoted to providing care and support for those who are born. A good birth is much more than accepting the child when it is born. For many years' focus on efficiency has resulted in maternity wards, which can be described as actual food factories. Good recommendations from the Danish Health Authority have been reduced to what is strictly necessary, but the giving birth needs a midwife who has time, and time is the important factor when the midwife's working environment also needs to be improved. Now it is the birther's turn, and in SF, we want to give pregnant, birthing and new parents some rights to ensure that births become the wonderful experience as it should be. And no: In SF we do not believe that pregnant, giving birth or new parents require more than is needed. Feeding is the miracle of life; such an once in a lifetime experience. Therefore, it is also so important that the giving birth is safe, both before and after birth. Because even if a birth is a miracle, a lot can go wrong, and for the birther you can feel in that situation as if everything goes wrong if you are not well prepared, and I know no one like in no one at all who has not had a need to talk about the birth afterwards. A birth can also be a traumatic experience, but the consequences can be prevented by conversations, studies, good advice on after-effects, breast-feeding, stitching and everything else that also comes with it. And it can prevent expensive rehousing, which also costs. What is saved is not necessarily earned. In the SF, we believe that births are a matter for our joint efforts in society, and we are therefore also concerned about the privatisation of the area. We think it is a slippery slope when more and more future parents find themselves forced to buy extra midwife visits, scans, birth preparations, births and maternity leave. That is why we will also give priority to equal access to good births for everyone, including in relation to the citizens' proposal. The citizens' proposal is on a long stretch entirely in line with the SF.'s proposals for improvements in the field of birth, which is why we also support the citizens' proposal in its entirety with priorities of resources for pre-natal preparation, known midwife, time for good births and the right to maternity leave for families who need it. Births must be a lovely once in a lifetime experience. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528105537	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we can move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528105556	Thank you, President, and many thanks to all of you who have signed the citizens' proposal for better births. We can of course hear that there is broad agreement in this Chamber that this is a really important area that needs to be addressed. We have all read and have been touched by the many stories that have been in the media and that tell about a heavily pressured food area. It is not reasonable for the birthing and new families to feel insecure, and it is not reasonable for the maternity staff to run all too quickly. There is a need for both short-term action and longer-term plans. Several have already pointed to the acute problems that exist, particularly here in the Capital Region. That is why it is also good that, in the region where I am also sitting, we have allocated an extra 24 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report, which he has drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control. On the more general level, action is also needed. We must ensure a safe and good start to life as a family, and we must ensure proper working conditions for health professionals. It is a comprehensive and complex issue which I look forward to discussing with all the parties of the Folketing. We in the Radical Left, like a number of other parties, have put forward our plans for what we think needs to be done in the field of food, and there are a lot of things that need to be looked at. After all, it already starts at the first midwife's interview, and proper birth preparation must also be ensured, so that everyone gets a safe and good start on the new life. Enough personnel must be provided in the maternity wards, we must provide a calm and secure environment around the birth itself... some who take into account the individual family and their needs... and we must take care of the family after birth, in the maternity ward or in the home. Precisely because there are so many aspects, it is crucial that it is done thoroughly and with a view to overall health care. Therefore, I look forward to reading the recommendations that the Danish Health Authority is currently working on so that we can really address the problem, find the right solutions and secure the necessary funding. I fully share the intention of the citizens' proposal, because there is a great deal to be done and I look forward to the negotiations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528105808	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528105823	Thank you. And thank you to the citizens' proposers, because in reality one can say that the citizens' proposers have not just put forward one citizen's proposal. The citizens' proposers have made sure that Conservatives also want to devote money to the field of birth, that the Left has made proposals, that we in the Enhedslist have gone out with our motion for a resolution and that the SF has done so, and that there is a huge difference between what the Minister says today and what the Minister said a few months ago. So thank you, not just for making the citizens' proposal, but thank you for moving us all in here. I think that is very, very good, and what is really the great success is that there is agreement that we must guarantee fundamental rights in the field of birth. It's about the time before and it's about the time during and it's about the time after a birth. There was a time when Enhedslisten said that we should be entitled to 2 days at the maternity hotel or follow-up home visits, and everyone thought it was a rather petty and radical proposal, and now everyone would say: Yes, yes, it is good with you in the Enhedslisten, but that is not enough at all. And that's right, too. So in this way I really think that we have come very, very far just during the time when this citizen's proposal has had its way through the Parliamentary Assembly or rather to the Parliamentary Assembly, because it has not yet been finalised. In the Enhedslisten, we fully agree with the whole thinking behind the citizens' proposal. We need fundamental rights. I don't want one size fits all. This is not a matter of dragging a certain way of dealing with breast-feeding or not or of feeding or preparing for birth on top of people's heads, but it is about ensuring that there is the support and help that is needed for all of us. And after many years of cuts in our health care, 2-percent savings every year, which have hit the birth area very hard, many years, when midwives have fled the profession and where there is an excessively rapid replacement and therefore also in some places lack of experience, it is clear that we need to secure a bottom. I think that the bottom is both about ensuring absolutely fundamental welfare, but it is also about ensuring equality in health. Because, together with worse and worse conditions in the public health services, we have also seen an increase in private services. You can buy yourself for a safe birth if you have the money for it. You can buy yourself for birth preparation if you have the money for it. If you cannot make breast-feeding work, you can buy yourself for individual breast-feeding advice if you have the money to do so. And that means, of course, that we increase the inequality in our health system significantly, because the start you get on life suddenly depends quite literally on your parents' purse even before you are born. This is basically why this is so important because it increases inequality in our society from the second you come to the world. And it is not fair that it is the opposite of what a welfare society should deliver. It's basic welfare, it's about, and it has to be available to all of us, no matter how much money we have, no matter how much money our parents have. Then I would like to use my last minute of speaking time to say that if this is to become a reality, it is not just a question of discussing how quickly the Minister should call for negotiations, although I think he should do so more quickly. Nor is it necessarily a question of discussing Finance Law versus Health Agreement. It takes some money, it takes extra hands; it's obvious, you can't just write in rights without providing extra hands. But it also requires that we discuss how we recruit for this area. For already now midwives leave the area and have been doing so for many years. It's been years since this problem started. Midwives don't want to stay in the trade; it's too hard. But there are also a third of the country's midwives and midwife students who are currently making a promise not to take up employment in the public sector if they do not get a better salary • a fairer and fair pay. And it is then possible to say that it belongs to another minister or that it belongs to collective bargaining, but the problem ends in here, because these rights will not come true if the Folketing does not want to deal with the recruitment problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110342	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110346	I'm a little puzzled about such an attack on private midwives, so I just need to confirm completely whether Enhedslisten thinks it should be forbidden to provide these services and these services, or whether Enhedslisten thinks it's just about guaranteeing some rights for everyone, so that some people can still buy something more if they think they need it, so that there will still be a difference in what people can do. So where do you lie: do you want to ban it, or do you just want to guarantee some basic rights for everyone, and then some can buy more if they want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110419	We want to see some fundamental rights for everyone, and if anyone wants to buy more than that, then they are allowed to do so. But the problem is that developments have gone the opposite way. It is basically what you would have to buy, because it is the preparation of births that you have to buy, and you have to buy it yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110442	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110443	I don't understand where that self-sustaining stuff comes from. I've never expressed anything else. But I think it's nice. The unit list should park this whole inequality debate, because then it's not inequality, so inequality is not the problem. As long as good fundamental rights are guaranteed for everyone, there is no problem in the fact that someone buys something else that then creates some kind of inequality. So I think you should just park it and then say that what this is all about is ensuring good fundamental rights for everyone, and we cannot disagree on that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110511-2	Well, I just never said anything else. After all, the problem is that inequality is increasing because we do not guarantee proper rights for everyone, because the money does not go to the public because savings have been made, and that means that the conditions that are available, if we do not have to purse up, are too poor, and then the inequalities in health are increasing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110532	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110558	First of all, like other rapporteurs, I would like to thank the citizens very much, who are behind this very well-written proposal. Mrs Pernille Skipper actually said it very well: thank you for moving us. Thank you for also showing us some of the examples that we have been able to read about in the media. So the thanks are both to the promoters, but also to all those who have signed. In the Conservative People's Party, we fully agree that birthing rights are an important issue and that we have recently heard of too many stories about giving birth, which have not been given the treatment that they can rightly expect from the Danish health service. There was Amanda, for example, who according to B.T. was sent by a taxi in the middle of the contractions, and it is clear that it must feel very insecure. Anyone can relate to that. In the Capital Region, 232 women were moved to another hospital during their birth last year because of their busyness. There may be reasonable reasons to move a woman who is born, but she is not one of those causes. With this citizens' proposal, it is being proposed to put forward a bill which guarantees a number of rights for the birthing and new families. That is why I can also say that the Conservative People's Party fully agrees with the intention behind the proposal to give a safe and safe birth because it deserves all parents and children. After all, I believe that many of the least to be said unworthy experiences that have been advanced about giving birth, for example. were sent to hospitals by taxi during birth, can be traced back to a basic problem that we have too few midwives in Denmark. Some would say that it may be strange, because over the years more midwives have actually come in, but the pressure is still great. There have been several complicated births. Several complicated pregnancy courses have been added where several pregnant women are to be followed closely by midwives. That is why, in the Conservative People's Party, we have also tabled a motion for a resolution which we shall be dealing with immediately after this motion for a resolution, which will ensure that all children and parents are given a safe and secure birth by adding 244 extra midwives to the Danish maternity wards. This will give more tranquillity and time for the midwives to focus on the feeding and provide the care and treatment needed during a birth. Our proposal to invest in 244 extra midwives in the country's maternity departments will, according to the midwife association, ensure that the midwives have enough colleagues to ensure both a good working environment and also to ensure the work, care and treatment of the giving birth. Many of the rights proposed in the citizens' proposal will also be possible only if we ensure that there are enough hands in the maternity wards. We agree with the intentions and we agree with a focus on the rights of the birthers, but we would also like to know what it is for a bill we print, because there is also a bill that needs to be financed, and therefore it might be interesting to calculate what this citizen's proposal will cost. We hope that the government will thus try to qualify the proposals. So we in the Conservative People's Party fully agree that both birthing and children must be guaranteed a safe birth. We believe that our motion for a resolution on a number of midwives makes a great deal of progress. For us, the main task is first and foremost to ensure that there are midwives enough to carry out the task, otherwise we end up with the midwives running even stronger than they do today, which can ultimately lead to even worse conditions for the feeding and their newborns.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110932	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528110941	Thank you. I myself have twice had the pleasure of getting acquainted with a birthday home, and I can say it has been some good experiences and a fantastic staff. We have felt that we had all the information and knowledge we needed, and we have been in safe hands. I also think that this is part of the picture here. It is not to ignore the need for improvement or anything else, but it is to create the whole picture of what it looks like. My experience and that of my girlfriend aren't alone. In 2018, all 7.545 people were actually asked about what their experiences were of the course they had had. 87% replied. of all births in 2018 that they were to a great extent satisfied or to a very high degree satisfied. I think that's also important to get into this picture. When we talk about making improvements, it is in an area where, based on the studies that have been carried out, there is in fact also a high level of satisfaction. And it was a very, very large study that was made in 2018. This citizen's proposal then gives some concrete suggestions as to what these improvements could contain. We in New Citizens can easily see ourselves in many of those improvements. We think that some good proposals have been made and we would very much like to enter into a dialogue around them to see if this can be improved. After all, it is also a question of listening to the input that comes from outside and to the experiences that people have in relation to what they would like improved. Then it might be a bit of a classic christiansborg chat about who has been responsible from 2015-2019 and has done nothing, and who is responsible now, but I'm kind of looking forward to having some negotiations on this, and then I don't really care much about the other. So let's just look down that path. Let's sit together and look at it. I listen widely to all parties who say that there are many good things in it and that we can find solutions to it. So let's sit down and see if we can't agree on that. I also think it is relevant to look at the figures behind. If you look at the actual figures, there have been more midwives in the period 2010-2016, and in the same period there have actually been fewer births. So you have to ask yourself, What has gone wrong? Why is it that, in a situation of fewer births and more midwives, the midwives have a completely real experience that they cannot keep up with the pressure? When you look down into it and see that the numbers go different ways, it can be due to different elements. It can be a poor structuring of work in some hospitals. We can see that there is a great difference between the different regions, actually from hospital to hospital within each region. So there is something structural, something management-like, that has gone wrong in some places. I think we should be honest about that too. Then there is also the fact that when the midwives say that they experience a more stressful everyday life, it is also because they have been connected to several tasks. That's why it's just that there's more midwives coming in... that can't do it alone. That doesn't mean you can say that there are no problems out there. Because if, at the same time, you ask the midwives to carry out a wide range of tasks that they did not undertake before, it is clear that they can easily feel that they have a pressure of everyday life. That's why I think it's quite relevant to look at these things when we're looking at improving these conditions. Then I hear that we have a problem with the newly trained midwives not working for the salary they get. I don't mind people fighting for higher pay. I have full respect for that. I can easily understand that you will. We also have to recognise that we cannot allow the birthers to be taken hostage in that fight and say that they simply do not want to work at all. If that becomes the new premise, and if you succumb to that pressure, we may suddenly have firemen and policemen saying: we will not go out at all. That is why we must accept the Danish model as it stands, and then there must be completely real wage negotiations where people can strike, hold votes and try to see if compromises can be found. I think that's the right way to do it. I understand their struggle for a higher salary, but we should not let ourselves be pressured by people who have agreed to an education, knowing what salary they will get on the other side of the education and who suddenly will not work under those pay conditions. It is something else about working conditions, we can look at improving them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528111447	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528111450	So, I was wondering: let the danger be that it is something structural and not the more complicated births that make the workload different and something like that. But when Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen says that the midwives and the graduate midwife students cannot afford not to take a particular job because they are dissatisfied with the salary, what is it then, sir? Lars Boje Mathisen says? What is the solution on the part of the New Citizen? That you're supposed to be Lars Boje Mathisen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528111532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528111533	Oh, I guess that's where you have to have a somewhat selective hearing to hear that's what I said. I come from a bourgeois party. I don't want to push people into a particular education or work. Of course, people must be free to do so. What I referred to, and what I attributed to it, is that it is perfectly fair to want to take a fight for his salary and want to improve it. However, when one chose to enter an education and go that way, one knew well when one took up the training 3-4 years ago, which was the level of pay one reached. And if you thought it was a problem and you did not want to work under it at all, then I say that it is also only fair to say that perhaps I should have thought about it when you agreed to the training. There is nothing in the development that has been completely revolutionised. That is why I say that it is perfectly fair, as I said in my speech, to want to fight for better pay and better working conditions. I have full respect for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528111622	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528111623	So the problem lies with the midwife students and the graduate midwives. How little time ago has it been necessary to take the training so that it is not fair to leave the profession because of the wage conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528111641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528111642	No, the problem lies with parties like the Enhedslisten, who will take the pay negotiations in here in the Parliament hall and think that because there are some professional groups who say they want more pay, we must dictate from in here that they should be paid more. I see a big problem with that. That is where I think it should be the Danish model. Then you can have an opinion on what the salary should be. And I think I can actually remember that a few months ago I actually stood there and said: I also wonder why the midwives' wages are as they are. In relation to the tasks they do, I would like them to have a higher salary. I think it might be fair for them to have a higher salary. The difference is whether I think I should dictate it from in here or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528111718	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. And I don't see anyone from LA and KD. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528111743	The debate is open. First we give the floor to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528111800	Thank you very much. This is exactly the same subject as before, and we also heard the Conservative rapporteur embark on this debate on the last issue here, so let me make a brief approach to it. It's a proposal to hire 244 extra midwives. This would be equivalent to an extra midwife per year. 250 births in Denmark. And that is an attempt to provide at least part of the answer to the problem that we have just spent some time on in the Parliamentary Chamber. I would also hurry to say that I do not see it as being the only answer that would come from Conservatives, but that it would be part of their bid for an answer. There is no doubt that midwives cover many guards. And it is quite right, as we heard Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens say, that there have been more midwives, yes, but at the same time the tasks have become more complex. The midwives work much wider today than in the past. There's been more scans. There have been several inquiries from insecure pregnant women. There are also several pregnant women with chronic or mental illnesses. And the regions have special offers for pregnant women who need extra midwifery, and this by its very nature gives many, many more contacts to the maternity wards. I think that is a good thing, but that means, of course, that it is close to purpose if you look blindly at the figure that covers how many midwives there are today compared to 10 years ago, because the tasks have changed so much. In addition, we must also note that many midwives start in a hospital, in the maternity wards, but during the first 2-4 years of their working life, a great many of them disappear again. So they start on some of the great births in Denmark, and then they end up finding other work as a midwife elsewhere, and then they are missing on our births. One of the very clear reasons is that there is low manning and low preparedness in relation to peak stress and too many relocations of women in active birth. It is an unpleasant situation for the woman who gives birth and for the family, but it is of course also an unpleasant situation as a midwife to stand and experience that what you can deliver is insufficient. If you do a statistic on it, you can see that a first birth takes an average of 11 hours. It takes 8 hours, from the time you are hospitalized, until you give birth, and then you take 3 hours with what is called after-care. This requires competent staff and calm throughout the process around the birth process. It's a very intense period. We all know that. And there you have to be safe and secure during the intense period. Therefore, it must be the case that transfer to another place of birth should only take place in exceptional cases, and it must be certain that the midwife has time for the necessary professional work, including to round births off. This specific proposal is also a proposal that will cost some money, and regardless of how we can raise the quality and strengthen the field of birth before and during and after birth, which we talked about during the last proposal, I think it will mean that we have to drop money. And I can say on the part of the government: we are ready for that. We have shown in the last two financial laws and in economic agreements that we have been ready to put the economy behind our words. We've lifted the psychiatry. We've hired several nurses. That's one of the things that's been important. Now we are faced with a health agreement where, among other things, we are dealing with. must lift the birth area, and we will also be ready to give priority and put money off there. Here comes an important point from me: what isn't going on, and we have to promise each other, is if we, all the parties, can agree with one hand to set aside money for this. It sounds really good that we all agree on it. That's some of what's gone wrong. It is not because there have been previous health ministers or former health rapporteurs before us who have said: we must now cut birth rates in Denmark. Nor is it because the Regional Councils have said: we are largely chosen to cut in the field of birth in Denmark. The fact is that this has happened in spite of good will, good words and perhaps even sometimes some packages of money to solve some problems. Because there can be a challenge with making those packages. It looks fine when you stand in front of the glass door in the Ministry of Finance or elsewhere and say: Now we lift this area here. The population may jump on it 3-4 times until you discover that reality doesn't stick together. Why not? Because you don't follow when there's more patients in our hospitals. Because then they have to run stronger, and then you don't follow at all. So we have to secure the bottom and keep our hands under our health care when more patients arrive. We've got a few years where it's coming. We also live longer, which is very, very positive. It also means more patients. It is therefore a question of holding hands during those tasks so that the money goes with it. If you want to strengthen the area, and I think we have all said so, then we must, in addition, over and above what is called the demography promise, put money off. That is what is at the heart of the matter. Otherwise, we risk making a big, big mistake which, unfortunately, I think has been made a little too many times in here. And I know that the people's patience with this kind of policy has been exhausted a long time ago, and so is mine. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112412	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112416	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I thought it was some really good words that came on, but I still feel like it's always being shot a little to the corner. In other words, there is not really going to be a bite on the bun, and now, in connection with the last motion for a resolution, I asked whether funding would be guaranteed, and the Minister would not reply directly to that. But let me try to ask you another way. Because if the action is really to follow the words, will the Minister also indicate that, from 2022 onwards, there will be a strengthening of the food sector, either from the Finance Act or from a health agreement, or whatever you might find out?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112501	Yes, of course there is. That is the purpose, of course, and that is why we are calling for negotiations and setting aside money. It is, of course, in order to gain strength, and it is worth noting that we are not repeating the mistakes of the past, where we are strengthening with one hand and pulling the carpet under it with the other hand and not providing enough money to pay for the demography. These are not the sort of reinforcements we are talking about, but we are talking about real strengthening of our health area and quite specifically of our birth area and, yes, of course, from 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112537	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112538	It is a good start and a nice one with a clear answer. It would have been great if it had been just as clear in the last round. But then we're gonna take it now, and I'm actually gonna ask you a question. Now you cannot know how it ends because there are more people to negotiate, but will the Minister also give priority to more midwives in what the Minister is putting forward? In other words, does the Minister recognise that more complex tasks have come to the conclusion that there are more complicated processes and that more midwives are simply needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112613-2	With regard to the whole question of standards, and that was one of the things I tried to address in my speech, that is, how many midwives there are, one has to say that when they run so fast, it is because they have too many tasks for too few people, and in many places it is possible to do so. The places where they saw gasping for the weather at the moment, they are places where they have many, many days a year with peak load. It has become almost the norm that there is peak load and they run too fast, and then they end up being midwives for too little time and they find jobs elsewhere, and then we lack them in our health care. So there is no doubt that we will also look at the composition of staff and the manning of midwives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112650	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112652	I wanted to hear from the Minister what the Minister would do to attract new midwives to employment in the public sector. Because we already have a shortage today. I agree with the Minister that we should set aside money to hire more. What will the Minister do to attract more midwives for employment in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112714	I'm gonna do everything I can for it, because we need midwives. As Minister for Health, I have met with a great many midwives, I also have a number of friends who are midwives, and as I meet with private ministers I did before I became Minister for Health and their stories and their reports from the maternity halls show frankly that they are there only to ensure a high level of professionalism, a safe and safe birth, and the more they can help prevent and be there for the birthers, the more you are also the self-help, and the more secure and secure it will be. So it is extremely short-term to have the cuts and have the working conditions and have too many times where it gets too pressured and too hard. That is why I can do this by helping to ensure that there is a proper working environment and that there are some reinforcements in the areas where they have themselves pointed it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112815	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112816	But what is all that the Minister can do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112827	It is, after all, a philosophical question that comes there, but now I am trying to give a concrete answer. What I can do is to meet with the parties and, on the basis of the health authorities' recommendations, to look at: Where can we lift? Can we lift with birth preparation? Can we lift with midwife consultation? Can we promise with standards? Can we do a lift in relation to staying in the hospital, in the maternity ward, in the patient hotel after birth? Should we ensure a better transition? What does this mean for the number of midwives and possibly other staff groups? All this will, of course, help to ensure better coordination and a better working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112905	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112907	Thank you. I agree that we should look at improving, but perhaps we should also look at how the money is then spent in healthcare. If you take the figure for 2018, Denmark has the highest share of GDP spent on health expenditure, i.e. 8.3%, and we are highest in the EU. So we spend a lot of money on the health system. But in the same period, for example. from 2010 onwards, we have also seen that the proportion of what is called cold hours, or at least administration in the regions, has increased by 30%. So when you are about to look at it, could you not also look at whether we are using the funds that are then in the system in the right way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528112954	Yes, you can, and that is definitely relevant. Well, there's some of it that's thought-provoking when you dive into this question. You just have to say that there have probably been some spreadsheets in some offices that have shown that it would be great things to centralize in gigantic feeding halls at giant food factories, and that it has then turned out that it is more difficult than that to have proper management close to the midwives and to have security and to have a good working environment in those places. So one has now started to go the other way and say that it is probably wiser to have it at a little more addresses, so one has a high professionalism, but also the possibility of being head of midwives, and one actually also knows what it's about in everyday life out in the maternity ward. So this probably suggests that it is wise that the management that should be there should not be one where it is done in such a way that you only meet with other office staff, but a management that is close to the clinic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528113056	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528113057	I am glad that the Minister says that we would also like to look at those things. 'Cause it's about the whole picture. Often this picture is presented that we do not spend money on our healthcare in Denmark, and when we are the ones who spend the most in the EU and we have had a sharp increase, it is also important that we look at how we spend the money and that we not only say that we need more money, but that we look at the big chunk we already spend. So I'm glad you're willing to look at that part too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528113119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528113119-2	Yeah, we're willing to do that. I just have to add that the government is not going to agree to a policy where we say that we should feed the dog with its own tail and that they just have to work a little smarter. We are working, for example. In particular, a reduction in the number of private consultants. That is what we do in the state, and that is what we do in the regions, in agreement with the state. So we have had these negotiations with the regions, and that was, I think, a good debate and a good result. But in addition to the fact that, you might say, there has to be smarter and less paperwork, there has to be a very concrete boost from the state to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528113158	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are no more brief comments, and then we start with the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528113217	Thank you very much to the authors of the motion for a resolution for once again putting births on the drawing board in the debate in Parliament's discussions. This area, like the subject that we also dealt with a moment ago, is something that the Social Democratic Party is extremely concerned about. The proposal makes the Conservative People's Party extremely specific when it comes to addressing the lack of resources and the busyness of the country's maternity departments, and I am also thinking of pointing out how many midwives are really needed. Some of what I would like to highlight today is also about what the Minister has pointed out, namely that the complexity of part of the births that are taking place in the maternity wards has increased and that the complexity of the births themselves has also increased. What has also been asked by some rapporteurs here today is why it is that more midwives are needed when the number of births has actually fallen, and then you can ask whether it is about the need for special efforts in relation to some of the complex births. But it may also be that we are actually thinking that there are some important tasks to be solved, and this then gives us a situation in which we need to give priority to efforts in the field of childbirth in the future. I look forward to that, and I look forward to having the proposal discussed in committee, and I hope that we will be able to meet together in an equal way in Jutland on a common basis. Because we simply need to create a common foundation in relation to the birth area. So thank you very much to the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528113433	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mrs Camilla Fabricius. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528113446	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank our friends in the Conservative People's Party for putting forward the proposal we are debating today. The birth area has been under discussion here in the Parliamentary Chamber in a number of recent times. We will also have to deal with it in a consultation convened by the Left, later this afternoon, so if listeners or viewers out there have not yet had enough of hearing about this important subject, you can tune in again this afternoon at 1 p.m. 2:00 p.m. I am also pleased that the field of birth is on the agenda both in this Chamber and in the consultation today, because this is an important issue. This is an issue that deserves a great deal of political attention, and it is also a subject that requires political action. I think we are all now familiar with the problems in this area. As I also said in the previous debate, I will go as far as to call it a definite failure. It is a failure to the parents and it is a failure to the children, but it is not only the children and the parents that we are failing here. So we are also abandoning the staff of the country's maternity departments, because things depend on each other, as I said during the debate on the previous proposal. Conditions for parents and newborns are improved when the conditions for workers in the maternity wards are improved, and vice versa. One thing that is very important to me in this is that we should also give priority to proper preparation for birth and examine what we can do about the increase in complex processes and also actually get a look at what tasks a midwife is doing today. We have also discussed this earlier today, and I can hear from the Midwives' Association that there among other things. The challenge is that in some places you have to do a lot of other things than accept a child. I say this with respect that this is not just what it is about, because it is also a hard working environment to be in. But let's also uncover it so that we find out what a midwife is doing today and what to do in the future. As far as this whole discussion on complicated procedures is concerned, I think we can actually get some resources on that point too. Because it costs, and it also costs midwife hands to have people in complicated labors. The authors believe that 244 more midwives should be employed. In the Left, we agree that it is necessary to hire some more, but 244 is a very specific figure, and unfortunately I can also be in doubt whether we can recruit and recruit these 244 midwives in 2022 at all. But it is clear that we need to have a look at how to solve this, and we need to do this in cooperation with the regions. For solved, it has to. We must also have qualified funding in the resolution. It needs to be further qualified. I also believe that a large majority, if not all of us gradually, will be able to land it here in a really fine report in committee. In any case, the Left would very much like to help Conservatives with this. This report could, of course, also put further pressure on the government. Why are we actually standing here today? That's what I'm asking myself. As I began by saying, this debate is another one in the series of debates in this area. There is a clear and clear majority in favour of doing something. I still think the government is a little foot-to-mouth in this area. So I have a hope, albeit a slight hope, that the Minister will now realise that we must act and that we must get started here before the summer break. I have highlighted in several rounds here on the platform the Left's own birth-playing game, a game where we come up with seven concrete proposals on how to improve the area. It also sounded almost as if the Minister had been a little inspired by the Left's initiative here today, and it is amazing to hear that it is coming from there too. Finally, I would like to thank the Conservatives once again for tabling this motion for a resolution and for ensuring that we can once again have a debate on this important subject. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528113846	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528113909	Thank you, President. Here, too, I have the privilege of representing the health rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt. The debate here is undoubtedly linked to the previous one, which is why I should like to make it brief and thank the Conservatives who have tabled this proposal, which is probably prompted by many of the stories that have just led to the tabling of a citizens' proposal. We need midwives... that's safe... and that's why we're quite open to both the educational and the work, that's how we can improve it. We fully agree with the intention of the proposal here, but we want to ensure that just because a region does not give priority to the birth area, which has not been done in the capital, for example, they should not be rewarded for it. So if we are to help secure the means to get more midwives to the maternity wards, it must be equally distributed over the five regions, and then we can implement the citizens' proposal that we have just discussed. In these words, we are very much in favour of the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528114015	Thank you. There are also no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, so thank you to Mr Delors. Morten Messerschmidt. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528114032	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting forward the proposal to hire more midwives and also to train more midwives, I think the proposal is also about. We in the SF are pleased that it is now clear to parties across the political spectrum that the challenges in the field of birth are real and require action. We do not agree on everything, but nevertheless it is very good that we can now come together to strengthen the birth area. Several midwives are inevitably part of the solution to ensure better working conditions in the maternity wards of the public hospitals and better conditions for the birthers. For far too long, we have heard reports from staff about awkward working conditions and so great a hurry that for example. has not been possible to reach the toilet or get something to eat along the way on a guard. It is not worthy of any of those involved. The poor working conditions and the lack of midwives also greatly affect the experiences of the birthers in the maternity wards and in the negative direction. For many people, before, during and after birth, they feel unattended and too many giving birth are exposed to unreasonable experiences such as being transported several kilometres to a new hospital while the birth is in progress. These are all examples that show that food needs to be dealt with, but let me also make it clear that the resolution is far from enough and far from being the only thing that needs to be done to remedy the problems. I also believe, for example, that, in relation to this particular proposal, there is a need for a somewhat more detailed analysis of the need for dimensioning, because at least I note somewhat different views on the need. It is wrong if we train too few people it is really wrong if we train too few midwives, but it is also wrong if we get to train more people than there is actually work to do. However, I would just like to say here that we are so looking forward to promises from the government, made both under the previous proposal, but also under this proposal, that negotiations should be called for in this area, and we will fight in the SF to ensure a holistic solution. There is a very strong need for both staff and food to be taken into account in a new agreement in the field of birth. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528114314	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we shall proceed to the next rapporteur once we have just been made clear. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528114329	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado for having tabled the motion for a resolution to secure more midwives in the country's maternity wards. It is true, as Mr. Mr Messerschmidt referred to this in an obvious extension of the debate we have just had, so I will also be relatively brief. I don't think it's a secret that there's a shortage of personnel on our birthplaces. The staff are under pressure, and this affects both the birthers, their families and the well-being of the employees. The tasks that our midwives must perform today have become both more complex and more numerous, and that is part of the explanation for the fact that there is too much work to be done on the country's feeding grounds. We must take this even very seriously, and that is why we need more midwives. I think we all agree on that. At the moment, as you know, there are other challenges on that front, but that does not change the need. We therefore need not only to ensure more midwives, although I fully agree with that part too, but also to ensure that it is an attractive workplace so that we can both attract and maintain midwives. There are many problems that need to be resolved, and that is why I would like to look forward to the committee reading and again thank the Conservative rapporteur for the proposal, which is obviously part of the solution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528114446	Thank you, sir. Stinus Lindgreen. There are no brief comments to the radical rapporteur, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528114505	Thank you to Conservatives for having tabled the proposal and thanks to all those who have pressed Conservatives to make the proposal. It is absolutely true that we need more midwives in the Danish maternity wards, and it is also a completely inevitable part of wanting to guarantee birthrights that there will be more employment. So we can support the whole intention. I am also looking forward to Conservatives coming to the financial law negotiations with the rights of the bearer at the top of the agenda and a lower inheritance tax a little further down, at least than they usually wish. I think that would be a welcome development in the financial law negotiations. It is also very important, when you finance the food sector and want to give a boost, that the general financing requirement, as the Minister said, in the health system, is met, because if you do what you have done in the past, that is to say, cut back and cut the 2-percent priority contribution as it was called, that is to say by 2%. savings every year in the economic agreement in the spring, and then a bag of money later in the financial agreement, does not make any sense. And that is what has been the case for so many years. That is why it is also exciting to see that, and I am counting on it, because otherwise we will have bigger problems if the government again this year delivers an economic agreement that they are negotiating right now with the municipalities and regions, which will ensure that the money that comes will actually come with when more people need our health care. Then we can build upstairs after that. That is, of course, the whole basis for it, and we need to take that into account in this discussion. That's where we're gonna start using the money, and then we're gonna build upstairs again. Then I would like to mention again, last of all, that we have an unanswered question, too, unanswered by the proposers here, who are about how to find the 244 extra midwives in the Danish maternity wards. Someone will just have to be able to answer it at some point without saying that it is Enhedslisten who is against the Danish model, or anything else. You have to find these people. We cannot just stand in here and say that we will employ 244 midwives if there are no 244 midwives who want to work in the public sector, because security planning is too bad, because the working environment is too bad and because wages are too poor. Well, I feel a little bit like I'm yelling in a pillow now. It is not enough to decide that more people will be employed if no one wants to work in the public sector. You have to deal with that at some point. It looks as if that summer • although I am sure that the Minister for Health deserves some vacation • we come to now, may well be the very big problem when it is not taken care of and there are no midwives, either to hire or to fill the needs that are already there today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528114827	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528114830	I would like to hear what Enhedslisten's solution was to find the 244 when they say that everyone else should come up with proposals for it. Are you going to dictate the pay from in here? If you say that it is a higher salary that is necessary, where should it come from? What is it that you ask the Folketing to do what you think you can do besides what you are doing now? Secondly, I just have to point out that if you are now blaming Conservatives for bringing things into the financial law negotiations, there have been two financial laws. And this is a problem that Enhedslisten has signed and where the problem has not been solved. So maybe you should look inside instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528114905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528114906	What I am proud of with the two financial laws is that there has actually been an increase in funds for the Danish health service. This means that these are the first two financial laws in a decade when health care has not been reduced overall and thus in the maternity wards. So even if we can do more, I'm actually really proud of it. And I'm glad to hear that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen asks what Enhedslisten wants, because what Enhedslisten has proposed on several occasions is that we actually make political efforts to set aside the financial framework that is needed in order for the public collective bargaining to provide a solution to the equal pay problem which exists and which means that not only midwives but also very many other subjects are not paid according to their length of training, but are stuck in the pay hierarchy of an official reform from 1969. We would like to allocate 5 billion. kr., which one saw, between the parties, can distribute with the one loose bond, which states that one should raise the low pay area and ensure that the equal pay problem is solved. And that is something that has at least been supported in the past by other parties as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528115012	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528115014	Yes, but the fact that the health system has been lifted does not mean that this problem has been solved. They have chosen to give, it was 220 million. kr. a year to DR instead. There you could really solve a large part of this problem with that money. I would like to ask: if this pay compensation comes with the 5 billion. kr. And then there isn't that boost for the midwives, will you just accept it? Would you say, then, that is how you have chosen to distribute that money? So if the midwives are not lifted up where Enhedslisten thinks it is necessary to lift them, will they accept it because the negotiations lie where they do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528115051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528115052	It is absolutely true that money has been spent on avoiding cuts, among other things. on Denmark's Radio, just as we have spent a great deal of money avoiding cuts in the public sector in other parts of our welfare society, because the former right-wing government spent, and I do not remember the exact figure, over 20 billion. kr. on lower taxes. So there is a certain amount of clean-up work, which is why we are not yet in the finish line. However, we have actually ensured improvements in health care for the first time in at least a decade. And yes, we are willing to accept the result that the parties will achieve. But it is clear that the commitment is that it needs to be improved in terms of equal pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528115129	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. I was just going to see if the rapporteur for the proposers wanted to split his speaking time. Otherwise, however, it is always the rapporteur of the authors of the motion who is going to round off the debate. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528115214	It has to be done properly, and you don't have to sneak in front of it, or we'll get in trouble. It is good that the Conservatives raise the problem. More midwives, fine. For me, the most important thing is that it becomes a better service for the citizens that that is what it translates into. It must not just become that they are buried in paperwork, that they may water down the functions with which they stand, where they really do not solve the basic tasks that they have at birth. One of the problems that has arisen is that it may have been spread out too widely what the midwives should be working with, and at the same time it has been cut back on the support which should be in the maternity ward, for example. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. I looked at the data, and in 1910 every tenth infant died. It's actually crazy to think that 1 in 10, that's 10%, died. In 1940 it was 5 per cent, that is, one in twenty babies, who actually died. Now we're down to 0.3%. 100 years old. It is also worth thinking about what technologically, what a crazy improvement we as human beings have achieved, by abandoning 10%. Of infants dying, it is now 0.3 per cent. It's a massive improvement. This does not mean that we should rest on the laurels, but it does mean that we should recognise how we have moved. I believe that there should be a good health system. In New Citizens, we have no problem spending money on basic core welfare, and so do we in the healthcare system, because we are the country across the European Union that spends the largest share of our economy on health care. So if the idea that spending more money always improves is right, then we should have the world's best health system in a wide range of areas, because how can it be that those countries that spend a smaller share of their bnp actually deliver a better health system? I think that's relevant, too. We're looking at that. So the answer should not always be in a country that already has the highest tax in the world and that spends a great deal, the largest share in the European Union, of their health care system, that it just always takes more money. It may be that more money is needed in certain areas in order to raise the areas, but then you might have to look at some others. And when I look at the fact that the proportion of administrative academics in the regions has increased by 137 per cent. Since 2007, 137 per cent, that is something you have to look at and ask if it is necessary. Do we have an over-administration in the regions? Have they patched themselves up with bosses and academics instead of spending the money on nurses, midwives and health professionals? I think that is also part of the debate, that is to say we dare to take that discussion, instead of always finding a solution that is about more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528115528	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the new citizen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528115543	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Conservatives for bringing this motion for a resolution. What is the point of the proposal is to improve the conditions for those who give birth, and that is a purpose with which it is very difficult to disagree, and neither are we. But it is implicit in the proposal that the problems we are hearing about are a question of resources, and I think we can discuss what the New Citizens' rapporteur has just done. After all, we have the highest health costs, the highest public health costs in the European Union, here in Denmark, and if you compare with 10 years ago, there are also fewer births and more midwives than there were then. Ten years ago, there were approx. 1,250 midwives, and today there are approx. 1,600. With the number of births, the development has gone the other way, because there were about 10 years ago approx. 63.500, and now there are approx. Sixty-one thousand. This means that 10 years ago, on average, a midwife had to bear 51 births a year, and today it is 38. Those are the hard numbers. But then, of course, there is the experience. And I would like to start by saying that there is, of course, the principle that people should be taken seriously without necessarily taking them literally. I have no doubt that it is true that the midwives feel pressured, and I would also like to believe that there are many giving birth who may feel frustrated. But when you look at the figures, it seems to me that resources cannot logically be the problem, and I think that is something that we need to talk very seriously about here in the Folketing, because in these days Nina Smith's report on the second generation reforms of the public sector is also coming, and they are, of course, triggered by these issues that we are talking about, that is, that the consumption of resources actually goes up while the experience of quality goes down. And it cannot go on indefinitely, and it will sooner or later put the political system under a very, very intense pressure, no matter who else has the power of government, so that more resources do not trigger a better quality experience, but it is a little illogical, but we must take it seriously • an experience of decreasing quality. That is why I am sure that, in addition to thinking about this general issue, we also need to look at the way in which the actual work on maternity leave is organized before we give more resources without thinking about it. Although, of course, we find the proposal very sympathetic, we cannot therefore support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528115856	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no brief comments and we have now reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528115913	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the nice speeches and also for the support. I have looked forward very much to the debate today on this resolution, where we are actually proposing to add 244 midwives to the Danish maternity wards in 2022. According to the midwife association, this will ensure that the midwives have enough colleagues to ensure a good working environment and at the same time also ensure the necessary quality of births, ensure care, ensure better treatment, and we believe that this is crucial. There have been too many heartbreaking stories of the environment of midwifery and feeding on the country's birthplaces for some time now. Unfortunately, the result has also been that mistakes have been made because the midwives are simply too busy. Access to documents by DR even shows that during the period from 1 October 2020 to 15 February 2021 there has been such an acute shortage of midwives that for 21 out of 137 days there were no more midwives to call. So we owe it to both the midwives and all future parents and their children to do something about this problem. For there are indeed maternity wards in Denmark where they are so pressured that they can only cope with acute tasks. We have not only heard of 25-year-old Amanda who had to go in a taxi and drive to Slagelse while she was in labor. There are also examples of midwives who may eat their food in a broom closet that cannot reach the toilet and break down crying simply because they cannot give the treatment or care needed by a woman who is born. This must not be the case, and that is why we must also offer our pregnant women a more secure relationship. For it is a great moment and it is a magical moment when a child comes into the world, and the unique feeling must not be overshadowed by stress, rush and uncertainty. So with our proposal we will not just ensure that there will be greater security during the birth itself. This also means that the midwives have time to give some longer consultations, to strengthen birth preparation, to ensure better births, but also to ensure that there is time to round off the births properly with an afterbirth conversation. Let's just take the importance of the afterbirth conversations. I can remember the birth of my own firstborn in 2013 or at least I think I can remember that. Our son was taken with a suction cup, and suddenly there were ten men tall in the living room, and this calm atmosphere with a midwife who had looked into every now and then was replaced by hectic activity. The birth went well, but frankly, I wasn't there at all. I found after birth that our son had a high APGAR score, and then I felt convinced that he was okay, and so was he, but I didn't think of in the situation that I wasn't okay. When I gave birth to our daughter, it was a completely different experience. It was a power birth. I had a surplus. I felt present and was also in control, but it was actually only with the birth of our daughter that I really found out how pressure I had been at the birth of our son. There I think that an afterbirth conversation with the midwife might have brought a better end to the chaotic course that led to my son's birth in 2013. At least I hope so for other birthers. So there's enough midwives out there to hire 244 extra? Well, there are, in fact, because, in addition to 200 midwives being trained annually, there are also 400 midwives who are not using their authorisation today, and there are also midwives who are employed in the private sector. So you can say a little teasingly that when the Socialists wanted to hire 1,000 extra nurses it sounded great; except that they didn't exist, then these are midwives that exist. Some may also say that more midwives have actually arrived at fewer births over the years, and that is also true, but it is important to have the midwives given more tasks over the years. At the same time, the midwives solve many other tasks than births. They are employed on a broader basis in the regions, and the births have become much more complex, and therefore it does not make sense to look only at the fact that there have been more midwives; that is there. It is just as much a question of whether there are midwives enough in relation to the tasks there are. So, with this debate today, with the warning that there will be negotiations on health agreements and with the forthcoming negotiations, which are also in relation to the Finance Act, we hope that it will be possible for us to employ more midwives than we have today, and we thank you for the reception given to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528120358	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The next point, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group) F 49, according to the agenda, will not be dealt with until 1 p.m. 12:15. Then the sitting is suspended and, after a short break, it resumes at 1 p.m. 12:15.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528121504	The sitting shall resume. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 1 June 2021. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, the rapporteur of the questions, for a reason for the question. Here you go, sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528121546	Thank you for the floor. In 2012, the late Professor Henning Beck and Associate Professor Mehmet Ümit Necef published a book called "Is the Danes racists?" and in 2019 Associate Professor Sofie Danneskiold-Samsøe, together with his colleagues Bo Wagner Sørensen and Yvonne Mørck, published a book called "Are related social control." The conclusion of the two books is that Danish research in both racism and immigration is marked by one-sided political agendas. This leads, in the case of racism, to accusations against the Danish people about being racists who, on closer analysis, do not hold up. In the case of immigration, this leads to a problem such as: First of all, honour-related social control is defined and, secondly, concealed. In 2018, Weekendavisen covered Aalborg University's conference on race held in January. Here, according to the newspaper on 16 March 2018, Professor Peter Hervik says the following, and I quote: Today I am most interested in the perspective of activism. I am very excited about what is happening in the new social movements. On 18 February 2021, Weekendavisen covered a Nordic conference in migration research organised by an association supposedly called Nordic Migration Research. Although this is again a journalistic treatment, it is clear that research into both race and migration is highly politicised and without clear boundaries between activism and research, just as was stated in the two research-based books I have mentioned. But there are plenty of other examples of activism in Danish research, and it often happens that the authors themselves confess. I can mention Signe Uldbjerg in Women, Gender & Research on 8 February 2021 or Julia Suárez-Krabbe in Berlingske on 17 March 2021. As recently as the Weekendavisen today, you can also see examples of the situation in the Academy of Fine Arts, and there is a leading article about the one-eyedness of Danish Islam research. In the light of the circumstances and in the light of the debate launched by the French Minister for Research earlier this year, it is time that we also had a debate in Denmark on the difference between science and politics and a debate on the limits of how active we can act within the framework of a concept of research and within the framework of the institution which calls itself a university. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528121840	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl for the reasons for the question. And then it is the Minister of Education and Research for an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528121859	Thank you for the floor. The subject of this debate is identity policy and activism in research environments at Danish universities. I believe that this is an important debate, but at the same time a difficult debate which, as we all know, has recently been running in the media, particularly in certain fields of research, such as research. gender and migration research. As Minister for Research, I would like to start by emphasising that researchers must be able to research freely and disseminate their research to the public. And I simply do not think that we should make ourselves judges of individual fields of research, scientific methods or individuals from a political point of view. This does not mean that we must not have a general political discussion about the trends that are being pointed out, both abroad and at home. And it is my task and my responsibility in every way to ensure that the managements of each university are vigilant about the exact freedom of research and do all they can to ensure that the requirements of good scientific practice are met. As responsible minister, I take note of the descriptions of fields of research where there seems to be a professionally narrow approach to research or to what can be researched. I am concerned because it should not be the case that there are issues or fields of research which cannot be addressed either by peer pressure or by self-censorship, or that in some fields of research there is such a narrow theoretical approach to research that it actually limits the results and applicability of research. Scientific theories must be challenged by critical questions and alternative approaches, otherwise research will lose its value. This is a discussion that we need to take seriously, because it seems to me to be about freedom of research. And it is important to safeguard precisely that freedom, both when there are forces outside the research environments that will restrain research and when there are forces within the environment that limit freedom for others. Having said that, I would like to stress that I have no basis for thinking that this is an all-encompassing problem in the Danish research world. Nor do I see any basis for talking about a general political left-wing in Danish research, of which some votes in the debate will picture. But I think it is important to be aware of whether there are trends that limit pluralism in Danish research. It follows from the University Act that universities must safeguard the freedom of research of the university and the individual and of science ethics. It is important from the political point of view to keep the arm's length arm in line with the specific research activities. Questions of pressure on the freedom of research in the form of, for example: one-track research environments are a clear management task for universities to handle. It is my responsibility to have a dialogue about that responsibility being lifted, and that is why, on the back of the recent debate, I have, of course, had exactly that dialogue, and I will continue to have it so that we are sure that there is awareness and that there is a willingness to secure research at Danish universities which are independent of particular interests and are based on sound scientific principles. At the same time, it is also important for us to remember that there are mechanisms in the research world that ensure the quality of research. These are peer-reviews where researchers assess the quality of the results of other researchers. So when I talk about pluralism, of course it is also about the fact that, although the scientific method is in order, there may actually be pressure within the environment that there are simply some conclusions that are more comme il faut than others and then lead to a restriction in itself. It is worth a discussion and that is something on which I believe we should have a general debate on and at the level of management in the universities on an ongoing basis. But I would also like to stress that, despite this, I do not have a general concern about the quality or integrity of Danish research. It is not the same as just sitting back and blinding ourselves to the fact that some of these challenges and dilemmas can arise in different contexts that can put pluralism and freedom of research under pressure. And that is the issue that I, too, as Minister, would like to focus on on on a regular basis. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to say clearly that I do not in fact believe that we should designate, be rude or exhibit individual researchers or specific research environments. In fact, I do not think it is a political task to judge individual research projects. Nor do I believe that we, from a political point of view, should launch major studies and surveys of the entire university sector. But we must constantly have a debate about pluralism, about freedom of research and about the principle of the whole of this dynamic that can arise. So to sum up, we see no reason for a major study, as mentioned in the question, but the insistence that there should be neither censorship from the outside nor inside the research environment, and that research flourishes by being challenged on methods and on different approaches to a topic, is a discussion that is important and that we must continue to have. We must have it here, but I would also like to insist on continuing to have a dialogue with the universities' managements on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528122546	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. One brief remark from the rapporteurs is now available, and the first to ask for it is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528122556	In other words, there is nothing wrong with what the Minister says here that it has been kept in very general terms about the balance of research freedom. You challenge the research and will be able to say what you think about it, also as part of a general debate on society, but on the other hand you will not have a cooling effect as a ruler, especially • especially, you will have to say that you are responsible minister. The Minister also says that the debate which the Minister considers to be legitimate must not be about specific research environments either; that is not where the Minister will intervene either. I have just seen this in the debate that has taken place as a very specific debate on a very specific field of research, and in which the Minister says at one point at least that the Minister does not share the premise that we live in white supremacy and that if all research is such, we have a challenge. In other words, if the Minister does not agree with a premise in a field of research, do we have a challenge or how is that to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528122707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528122708	Thank you for the question. What I was asked by the journalist in that context was whether this research was useful to me, to my party and to the government, and it has to be said that if there is a whole field of research which, in its basic approach to a political subject, lies miles away from where our political starting point is, it is not the research we are going to start from, and that is a fair case. One thing, then, is what one can do; another is what we politically and politically see ourselves as agreeing with. It's two different things. But you haven't heard me at any time as Minister for Research say that these things shouldn't be researched. In fact, throughout this debate I have refrained from doing so, because I do not believe that this is my job. I do not think it is a political task to judge individual research projects, but it is, of course, always a political freedom, which research you want to use or do not want to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528122811	There's only one brief comment in this round, and now it's Mr. Knox. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528122816	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. The Minister says many things with which I fully agree, and it is nice to hear a defence of free research and pluralism in the fields in which we need to research and the methods to be used. I am very much in agreement with all this. I also hear the Minister say that the Minister does not see a widespread problem or a need for a large study, and I am glad to hear that. Nevertheless, I sense some sort of underlying concern on the part of the Minister about whether there is any problem. Maybe it's not as big as some people want to make it, but there's something. And then I just have to ask the Minister if, first of all, it is correct: does the Minister see a problem? Secondly, does the Minister not think that our university leaders are aware of their responsibilities? The Minister stresses that it is up to the boards of directors and the rectors to ensure that there is good scientific practice. Does the Minister not think that our universities are doing so today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528122904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528122905	The questioner hears quite correctly in the differentiation between whether we have a fundamental problem in all Danish research, or whether there are some underlying trends, I think can be a major problem if we do not have an awareness of them. That is the last thing I am talking about in my speech, so that is quite right. And yes, I am concerned when there are researchers who report that their research colleagues believe that the conclusions they make are not exactly the right ones. So, judging by the scientific method is fine, but judging by what the research shows is dangerous, I think, even if there is pressure within our research environments. It is also a management task which is not about peer-review, but which is about what one actually has to conclude as a researcher, and whether there is a free opportunity to actually say what one's research shows. I think there is an awareness of that, and I see it as such, but I do not think we are succeeding in all cases. There is so much power and power in research that there will always be pressure, and that is why we must continue to have this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528123010	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. The first rapporteur to speak is the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528123032	Thank you for the floor. As I have already mentioned, there are a number of examples of Danish universities and higher education in what can be called research activism. The worst affair does not fall within the scope of the Minister for Research, but it may be mentioned that this is the affair at the Academy of Fine Arts. But activism has also been pointed out in books written by researchers with a completely spotless academic character, it has been pointed out in a number of articles, mainly in Weekendavisen, and it is not, as I also mentioned in my motivation, something that the activists themselves are trying to hide; I gave some examples when I motivated the debate today, but there are more. On 22 December 2020, the journal Women, Gender & Research published what is called a call for papers in the research world, an invitation to contribute articles to the upcoming special issue, and here the editors in my Danish translation write: We are particularly interested in contributions that go into questions about sexuality and capital in Nordic context and/or focus on contexts and debates between activitic and academic work. Quote out. It is a journal aimed at gender researchers throughout Denmark, but it is anchored at the University of Copenhagen. From the context, when you read the entire invitation, it is clear that the particular interest in activism is not linked to criticalness, it is linked to the fact that you have activism as your professional ideal. The fact that activism is a problem in universities is not something that is confined to Denmark. In Britain it has become so glaring that the research minister, Gavin Williamson, has put a bill on the UK Government's legislative programme for the coming parliamentary year to protect academic freedom. And in France, the Minister for Research, called Frédérique Vidal, has raised a very necessary issue, it seems, when following the reactions of the debate on activism at the French universities. So it is a Danish branch of an international phenomenon that we face. Activism is the form against which both the Conservative British Government and the Liberal French Government are opposed. It is subversive both for the universities themselves and for the role that universities must play in a modern society. Internally in universities undermines activism for several reasons. It leads, as the Minister also mentioned, internally to an intolerance of the activists' institutes, those who challenge orthodoxy and the political line, become unwelcome and are never invited to make criticisms. But activism also leads to an undermining of academic virtues. It is, of course, a bad thing to expect what you want to prove, but that is what activist scientists are doing consistently, and therefore the day never comes when they revise their own theories as a result of criticism. The theories are perfect, and nothing can move scientists away from not changing them, but theories that cannot and should not be revised are not science, it is some kind of religion, and therefore they do not belong in a place like a university. In the relationship between the university and society, activism is also a problem because it leads to research that is useless and untrustworthy. This was recently expressed in a debate between one of Europe's greatest authorities in the field when it comes to social conditions in the Islamic world, a Dutch professor named Ruud Koopmans, and the notoriously one-eyed Danish Middle East researcher, Jakob Skovgaard-Petersen. I quote: If you have slept for 50 years, Koopmans finally asked the Dane, and you see, if you have followed the debate, that the answer is unfortunately yes. We can, for example. as politicians do not trust the typical Danish Middle East researcher, and that is what is being said in today's leader in Weekendavisen. What they have to say about Islam or about the Israel-Palestine conflict is so absurd, one-eyed and biased that there is no sensible person who can base it on his own position or his own actions. That is why we welcome today's debate and the broad majority in favour of a proposal for adoption which, on the one hand, emphasises the arm's length principle, but, on the other hand, calls on university managers to take their responsibilities for genuine critical and open research seriously. On behalf of the proposers (LA, S, V, DF, KF, NB and KD) I hereby submit the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament expects the university management to ensure that the self-regulation of scientific practice works on an ongoing basis. This means that there is no uniformity, that politics is not disguised as science and that it is not possible systematically to evade justified professional criticism. The universities are originally a distinctive feature of Europe, with roots in the Middle Ages. Today they function as crucial social institutions which provide a framework for free and critical thinking. The basic principle of the free university is academic self-regulation. It is that the research community, through free and critical debate, comes to a consensus on both the ideas that the research community considers to be viable and on the ideas that, in the light of the critical debate, are not maintained. The Folketing has the same right as all other assemblies of citizens, or citizens individually, to express opinions on research results. But it doesn't determine what can be researched or how. • V 137). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528123644	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528123651	Unfortunately, as a non-attached Member, I did not have the opportunity to put questions to the Minister. I hope that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will soon be set up as a party, but now it is the non-attached Member who is speaking here. I think it is really disgraceful that the government has agreed to this proposal for adoption, but that is fair enough. And why do I find that shameful? That's because this whole debate has been running on assumptions and not on facts. What is actually at the heart of this discussion is good research ethics, good research quality and good research freedom, and then we have anecdotal reports and various leaders in newspapers and some examples of quotations from research seminars etc. etc. Is there any evidence that the quality of research in Denmark is decreasing and that the freedom of research is under pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528123757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528123758	I have already mentioned this, but I would like to repeat it. As far as the whole of racism research is concerned, there is a 2012 book written by a university lecturer and a professor. The book is called "Are the Danes racists?" and it examines the so-called racism research by scientific means and makes some very harsh accusations against it. In addition, there is the second book I mentioned from 2019 on honorary social control, which was also written by three lecturers at Copenhagen University College, and which, using scientific methods, criticises this part of migration research. So it's peers peers, researchers who criticize other researchers. In addition, we have the confession cases where researchers themselves say they are activists, and I have also given some examples of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528123853	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528123855	There is nothing wrong with a scientist saying that he has a political attitude and for that matter goes out and protests out here in the Palace Square. What I am asking is: is there any broad study of whether the field of research is under pressure or not, other than that there are researchers who have a political attitude and write a book? When I say this, it is because there is a survey by the Danish Magisters Association of 5,000 of their members, and one eighth of them feels that they are under pressure, but it is definitely not in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528123930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528123931	I cannot do more than speak a clear and understandable Danish. This criticism, such as... These two books are not a criticism of attitudes. It is a criticism of the use of the scientific method and of scientific unodes, and the criticism itself has been made scientifically. Of course, there are no sensible people who criticise the opinion of researchers, because researchers are also citizens of Denmark. The discussion is about disguised political attitudes as science, and that is what is critical.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124007	Thank you. At any rate, I can tell you that there will be an opportunity to ask questions to the Minister just a little later in the course of the debate. The next brief remark is from Mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124020	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There's a lot of things, sir. Henrik Dahl and I agree, but also a lot that we disagree on, and that is what it should be like now that we have a democracy with different parties. One thing that puzzles me a little in this debate is that Mr. Henrik Dahl points out that two academic books written by researchers point out that other researchers are wrong, because is this not just an example of how it works? That's what research is like. Researchers discuss, present their results and are criticized by other researchers. So I find it very difficult to see that this is an example of a problem, on the contrary it shows to me that it is working. There's not this threat, sir. Henrik Dahl and others are indicting this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124105	The critics in question do not think so. The critics in question say that they have made their scientifically justified criticisms and that it has simply not been possible to engage the critics in a dialogue. It is clear that if those who are criticized stick their heads in the sand and simply refuse to enter into dialogue with the critics, there is something wrong that makes the criticism not work. Another example can be found on the website www.begrund.dk. A number of very fundamental methodological criticisms have been made, such as: of excessive absenteeism, of an empirical study in Women, Gender & Research. The editor has been confronted with the fact that there is an 88 per cent cancellation to which no answer has been given and that there are some problems with the questionnaire. There he has said that it has been examined by our quality control and that there is nothing to come for. As a sociologist, I can assure you that with 88 per cent cancellations. There's something to come for. That is unacceptable. Then there's no point in just not wanting to answer it. Then you get rid of criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124214	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124216	Now maybe it'll be a little bit technical. I agree with the last part because, of course, bad articles must be withdrawn regardless of what the field is about. I still find it difficult to see that this is different from other debates, even in my own area, where colleagues criticize each other, where they may not want to discuss directly with each other, but where they criticise each other and thereby also speak to the wider scientific field. It's for me to see how it works. But is Mr. Henrik Dahl not a little worried that this debate can actually lead to fewer researchers wanting to take part in the public debate and do not want to come out and say what they want because they are afraid of the response that will come from in here and from other parts of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124251	There are, after all, two elements in it. One element is whether, as a researcher, you should respond to fellow scientists who come up with criticism. If you just pretend you haven't heard it, or if you just say that you refuse to respond to the criticism, you somehow abandon your responsibility as a researcher. I think that's very, very critical. Then there is the second element which is about me speaking as a politician, but I have also seen a research programme, so I can also hit it if it is, and say that, as a researcher, I am critical of this or that. Of course, this must be done in a proper way, but I think that many of the researchers who find themselves in the debate are also doing what is called films in football, in other words throwing themselves into the hope of cheating on a free kick.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124332	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124354	Thank you for the floor. The question here is whether in some humanist and social science research environments there are problems with excessive activism. It goes without saying that it is untenable if there is a convergence of thinking; it is a prerequisite for a strong and vibrant research environment that there is room for different perspectives on a given subject so that it does not become too one-track. Similarly, scientific practice should not be compromised, so politics disguised as science. Politicisation and activism must not sneak into research. Scientists must, of course, be free to examine topics and publish results that go against and challenge political agendas, power structures or ruling dogmas. It lies in free and critical thinking, just as scientists themselves should be subjected to justified professional criticism. However, it is dangerous to question the arm's length principle, which is the basis for freedom of research and critical thinking, as has also been a little discussed in the question. It is not our job as politicians to judge individual projects or individual environments. Ideas, theories and results must either be promoted or rejected on the basis of critical and free academic debates. This is what lies in academic self-regulation, which is a basic principle for the free universities that we have in Denmark. It is an important part of the university management task to ensure that self-regulation of scientific practice works as it should. In the Social Democratic Party, we have full confidence that the universities' managements will undertake that task and take it seriously. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124535	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124539	I am so sorry that the Social Democrats have agreed to this text of adoption. I think you've been strapped to a political cart, unfortunately. But that's just my opinion. The only study I've been able to find so it's not just my opinion about the fact that the freedom of research is under pressure is from the Danish Magisters Association. It is little 5,000 who have responded and one eighth has experienced pressure, but the interesting thing is that the subject area that has most experienced it is in nature, health and technical sciences. Not at all in the area we are talking about here. And what they are experiencing is either trying to push to change results, to postpone publication or not to publish results. And it is the authorities and the business community and foundations they are experiencing the pressure from. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124641	Under no circumstances do I think anyone should experience pressure from anyone. As I said in my speech, it is not a political task to interfere in what is being researched, but I also think that there should be room, as we have here, for politicians to have an open-minded discussion with each other about whether there is interference and whether there is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124700	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124701	The rapporteur is not impressed by the fact that at least this study shows that the problem is not at all in the area we are talking about, but in a completely different area, and the pressure comes from some very different places. That is why I think it is so unfortunate that this matter has been given the fullness that we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124724	Yes, but if sir... Uffe Elbæk also thinks that this is a problem that we should discuss, I think he should ask a question so that we can discuss it in the Parliamentary Chamber. I think it is essential to discuss whether someone is under pressure, whether it comes from one place or another. What I am saying from here on behalf of the Social Democratic Party is that it is not a political task for us to interfere in what is being researched and what is not being researched. I can see that this debate, which has also been in the media, has been about more than just the discussion at Danish universities. It was also about the fact that in some other countries there have been discussions about this and where political decisions have been made. But I think we should be able to have a discussion with each other on this in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124805	Thank you. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124807	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur said something like that research must not be an activist. I did not get the exact word book down but must be critical of political debates and so on. I would just like to have the rapporteur explain how the rapporteur defines activist research in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124827	Now I can't find my quote either, but it probably doesn't matter. I think that the problem is if you use your research to promote some particular political point of view, and I am just saying that we are not going to interfere in what people are researching, but it is also a political choice whether I will use that research in politics or we will use it to make decisions in the Folketing. However, I think that in these debates that have been going on, we have heard examples of some ignoring everything about rationality and everything else in the debate, and I think that is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124909	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124911	The last part I've heard. I've heard and read the same thing as Henrik Dahl. I do not agree with the conclusion that this is actually a widespread problem in these environments. On e.g. migration research at Denmark's largest faculty of humanism here at KU there are, as far as I remember, eight or nine employed researchers. It's a very, very small group, and it's probably not the one that revolves around the entire faculty. There are two people who are researching gender research. They may not be the ones who wrap it all around, even if they did everything they are accused of, which I have no evidence of claiming when you look at their publications and their cooperation across the country. So I would just like to know if the rapporteur thinks that there is really a problem with activism in Danish research environments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528124955	We do not believe that there is a basis for a study to determine whether there are problems with activism in Danish research environments, but I also think that examples have been seen of the fact that where politicians have just stood away from the platform and have not been aware of this and have not had dialogue with universities, there have been major problems. What we just want here, and the Minister has had it, is to have a dialogue with universities, which also says itself that this is a management task that they want to take on, and I think that is a good thing that we have a look and a discussion about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125025	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125027	I would just like to start by stressing that no one here is asking the Socialists to use specific research for anything. The Socialists have to do that, absolutely and completely. I couldn't care less. What is the problem is that the Socialists sign a text for adoption which assumes that there is a problem with the research results that come out. That is why I would just like to repeat Mr. Stinus Lindgreen's question: What is the difference between actively researching and criticizing your peers legitimately?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125104	What we are signing, or what we support in the adoption text, is that it is the responsibility of universities to ensure that there is self-regulation in universities and that we are critical of the research being published. That's kind of what we sign. We also say in the text of the adoption that it is not a political task to interfere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125122	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125123	However, the rapporteur has just said that there was a problem, that there were major problems, and that we should have a political eye on when activitic research is being carried out. But the rapporteur cannot answer the simple question: what is the difference? What is the definition of activitic research, and how does it differ from just criticizing and disagreeing with fellow party members in a field of research?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125152	I am just saying that, for God's sake, we should be able to have an open-minded discussion with each other here about whether it is a political task to interfere or not. What I am saying is that it is not a political task to interfere in what is being researched or not being researched, but one must of course be able to discuss the results that are coming. I can, of course, take a personal view of the research results that are coming or not coming. I would just like to say that the questioner himself mentioned that I have mentioned examples from other countries, among others. on how to override concepts of rationality. Henrik Dahl, who was up here before, also mentioned other examples from Danish journals. I think there are plenty of people who can rightly be criticized in the debate. And let us have an open-minded discussion. But that doesn't mean that I want to get involved politically. But let us take the discussion on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125239	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125241	Thank you. I just need some kind of confirmation from the rapporteur. Both the Minister and the rapporteur and myself, when I read the text, have said that academic self-regulation is the backbone of the way the academic system works. But is it not the case that academic self-regulation can go off the rails? So there is no guarantee that self-regulation will work. And what managements are asked to do is to relate to where self-regulation is sometimes unfortunately running off track.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125321	Exactly, that is exactly what is at the heart, and the university management has also said that they need to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125330	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125348	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking the authors of the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance for taking the initiative for the debate here today, because, as I think the round of questions here shows, this is an extremely important debate. Basically, it is a question of maintaining scientific virtues, if you will allow yourself to call it that, because basically, the debate here today is about what kind of framework we, as a society, are giving free research, what conditions and frameworks we provide for research, and vice versa, what we make of research for, among other things, research. quality and not least fairness. Let me just start by making it clear that it cannot be misunderstood: for the Left, freedom of research is incredible. Freedom of research is to be regarded as freedom of expression or as part of our common freedom of expression. We must never get to the point where we question the value of the autonomy of universities and therefore also the freedom of individual researchers to freely exercise and choose the various fields of research. It would be very damaging to Danish society, and it would also violate fundamental principles in a democratic society such as the Danish one. On the other hand, as a society, we cannot, of course, accept that political positions are based on research, as the Socialist rapporteur said, and we cannot, of course, live with the fact that there is a alignment and politicisation of our research through activist measures, and that is basically what this debate is about. Having said all that, I would like to use the debate here to highlight something that I myself think is thought-provoking and, for that matter, also problematic, and that is when you hear about more and more researchers withdrawing from the public debate because they think that the costs are too high and too personal. As recently as the other day, the Science Report network could read about researchers who feel exposed to ridiculous ridicule, harassment and even threats, and of course we also have to deal with this in a debate like this. The Danish Magisters Association has been mentioned by Mr. Uffe Elbæk, and they can tell that one in six researchers who have spoken publicly have had bad experiences and have felt that their research results have been beaten out, and the hard tone seems to cause more and more researchers to opt out of public debate. This is not a good or healthy development at all. Scientists, of course, are not separated from the society in which they live, and of course there will also be values, attitudes and experiences among researchers that shape their research, and it may sometimes be difficult to separate personal opinions and values from the field of research with which the researcher is concerned. Research shall be carried out per year. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. Of course, as a researcher, one must be aware of the weight that one's message may be given and, above all, one should be clear as to whether one then speaks with evidence in one's own or another's research results, or whether it is perhaps personal opinions that are not supported by research results. Researchers must be a prerequisite for an open and enlightened society that research can question everything and also provide scientific answers, even if those answers seem inconvenient. Having said that, researchers must, of course, also be prepared to be contradicted and to receive professional criticism as part of the public debate. As a society, that is also one of the issues at issue in the adoption process, of course, we must maintain high quality requirements for our researchers and the many different research environments. • high demands for openness, objectivity and, above all, fairness; and it is, of course, a prerequisite for our high quality that universities are at all times committed to ensuring the quality of research. Now, unfortunately, I can see that my time has passed, but I would just like to finish by saying that we support the proposal for adoption which Mr. Henrik Dahl read earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125920	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first one comes from Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528125924	Thanks for the speech. I could say the same thing I said to the Social Democratic Party. I am very sorry that the Left in my optics has become tense to a political cart and that we are debating an issue which may not exist, but most of all is an expression of the suspicion of research areas, the suspicion of researchers and the suspicion of universities. Why do I say that? That is because I have asked the Minister: are there any problems with the quality of research? Are there any problems with the freedom of research in our universities? And the answers I've been given are that there isn't. There is certainly nothing that can document it. Then we have a clear statement from the Rector's College. They say there's no problem. Then we have the study from the Danish Magisters' Association, which says: Yes, researchers are under pressure, but it is in a completely different area, and this applies to some very different players. So I really think that this is a completely paradoxical discussion we have today. It is so completely mirrored in relation to where the problem really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130031	I'm really sorry, sir. Uffe Elbæk is sorry about the debate we have, which I think is a really, really important debate. I don't think so, sir. Uffe Elbæk must be sorry, on the contrary, and I look forward to hearing Mr. Uffe Elbæk's speech here later, where there will then be an opportunity to explain precisely why Mr. Uffe Elbæk thinks this discussion is irrelevant. We do not think so. We believe that this is an important debate. We believe that it helps to ensure precisely the quality that we are all concerned with and that it basically also helps to maintain the freedom that I and my party attach immense importance to is the basis of the research that is being carried out in Danish society. I agree with Mr. Uffe Elbæk in that we have high-quality research in Denmark, also a quality that in the vast majority of fields of research can measure up to an international standard, and we must of course stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130132	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130133	I just wanted to say that I really appreciate the debate. It is not the debate that I have a problem with. I love this debate and I think it is an important debate. The problem is just: I believe that the issue raised here is based on assumptions and not facts. There are some examples, but in my optics it has been taken completely out of context, perspective and magnitude. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: if the rapporteur is also aware of the study by the Danish Magisters' Association, what does the rapporteur think about the fact that it is quite different areas that are being referred to, and not the areas that we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130218	In fact, I also made a virtue of keeping it more general in my speech, because I generally find it problematic if researchers refrain from participating in the public debate. Whatever the subject, I believe that researchers have an obligation to bring their knowledge to the market so that it can be included in the public debate. And sometimes I think it's completely shot next to what a scientist might think, and at other times you could risk Mr. Uffe Elbæk thinks it's crazy what a scientist gets to. But it is precisely the hops in everything, in other words the freedom to research in the areas which the individual researcher considers to be meaningful and which can in some way contribute to the pluralism and development of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130313	Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130315	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I think the rapporteur has said many things with which I agree. However, I was somewhat confused by the fact that the rapporteur said something about the fact that political positions should not be supported by scientific evidence and, at the same time, as a researcher, as the rapporteur has just replied, Mr President. Uffe Elbæk, take part in the public debate. So I just have to ask the rapporteur, as I did to the Socialist rapporteur, whether the rapporteur cannot say a few words about what the rapporteur means by political activism in research environments. What exactly is the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130347	Yes, a number of examples have been mentioned, and the most recent and perhaps most mentioned example was what took place at the Academy of Fine Arts recently and which was also mentioned by Mr. Henrik Dahl. In my speech, I have made a great deal of reference to this issue in general. I am not taking part in this debate to shove out researchers or research environments, but I believe that we need to take the debate seriously. There's a lot going on in this field, even in other countries. After all, there is a reason why countries have introduced what are called the Chicago principles, and basically it is precisely a question of guaranteeing freedom of research, while at the same time it is also a question of maintaining a high quality of the research results that are achieved, i.e. the integrity of the research results. I also believe that there is reason for serious discussion in other countries, and I think we should have that in Denmark as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130456	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130457	Thank you. I totally agree. The task of universities is, of course, to ensure that there is a proper scientific quality and that any problems are addressed. But does the rapporteur think that there is a problem in Denmark? Are our universities too bad to handle this? Or are they actually doing what they're supposed to do? Do they need more tools? What is the rapporteur's position on that part of the problem here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130518	I will not deny that there might be a need for universities to have new tools, tools, to address this. There I simply do not have enough insight into how, what can be said, the control mechanism of fair research itself at present. It's going on. A number of years ago there was a heated discussion about the committee which had to decide whether research results could pass a test of fairness, and it may well be that we need to have a fresh debate on it. I understand that, among other things. is what has led to the formulation of the Chicago principles in the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130606	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528130629	Thank you, President. If you follow the debate on universities and research, you will be presented in these years with concepts, expressions, words which you may never have heard before, and which sometimes you will also have to have a foreign dictionary in order to understand at all, and I must also now, President, reserve the possibility of foreign expression here in the course of my little speech, and I hope that the President will tolerate that. But a whole new concept such as social justice theory or social justice theory has become increasingly prevalent, where, with its sub-groupings of ideas about post-colonial theory, queer theory, gender theory, intersectionality, critical race theory, obesity studies and so much more well in a general picture, it can be covered by the concept of social justice theory, which is basically not only about content, but also about a method that is extremely intolerant and anti-democratic and governed by such a kind of conspiracy idea that universities are imbued by old white men who cannot separate themselves from the source they are born into, no matter what they may do. And that, of course, is basically nonsense. Europe's universities are still dominated by radical socialist thinking and not by old post-colonial cigar-smoking men, and it goes back to the 1960s and 1970s, when Marxism thrived in universities, and even the former Minister of Education Bertel Haarder had to resort to quite violent tools to get it knocked down. Today it is so transformed into extremist pockets, where most recently the French Minister of Education Frédérique Vidal has spoken out and pointed out how paradoxically it is now a flow from the American university environment in particular, but of course inspired by French thinkers such as Foucault, Althusser, Deleuze etc., who are spreading at French universities, but also at Danish universities. There have been some concrete examples in this debate and they are unfortunately quite easy to find. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Looking at what exists at Aarhus University today under the research group called Ethnicity, Diversity and Education, where you have ten researchers associated, it is governed by a woman named Dorthe Staunæs, who already 15 years ago excelled in race theories, so you would think that you were in Germany in the 1930s, just with opposite signs. She is the head of the studies today, and so these racial thinking theories have been institutionalized at Aarhus University. Even worse, of course, it is not surprising at what is not a university, but a university centre, in Roskilde, where you have a Centre for Gender, Power and Diversity. Here almost 50 researchers and teachers have been associated with carrying out studies of class, social movements, neoliberalism, etc., but also ■ research on ethnicity, intersectionality, race queer, post-colonialism, whiteness, etc. So here in Copenhagen the problem is also rooted. Here one has a Centre for Gender, Sexuality and Diversity, and one has an entire course of choice in identity policy, where one can be trained in racist or presumably antiracist thinking, the dissolution of the sexes and post-colonial squeezing of Westerners. At the moment there is also a Centre for the Study of Nationalism, a Centre for Advanced Migration Studies, etc. here in Copenhagen. etc. So if you are not already completely twisted and a member of the Enhedslisten, then you can be admitted to universities and end up there. Many of the teachers do not hide the fact that what they are doing is creating trouble or structural changes, such as: in Aalborg, where FREIA is a center that also has to cultivate gender and post-colonialism, etc., and where writers directly say that they want to achieve the revolutionary potential, like Lea Skewes and Molly Occhino directly in their latest publication says that the purpose is to cause trouble by constantly addressing prejudices, discrimination and normative convictions in the production of knowledge. So if there is any doubt that this nasty phenomenon has come to Denmark, then I certainly hope that the error has been solved now. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131134	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131138	It is of course no surprise that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party thinks that these subject areas are some that he is not very happy with, i.e. to discuss gender and class and racism and power structures. It is, of course, perfectly legitimate and fair to think that it is not something that is important to examine when looking at a society, i.e. how gender differences are, class differences, racism dynamics and power structures. However, I do have a question for the rapporteur, although the rapporteur is very, very disagreeing with the fact that it should be something that is at all being dealt with at the university. Is this really research work where quality is not right? Can the rapporteur demonstrate that the named researchers who were now mentioned and the named departments have a quality of research that is not in order?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131238-2	Yeah, I think you have to say that with a high probability. The Danish SEXUS study showed that 99.4%. of all Danes have a gender identity that is actually a reflection of their biological sex. Yet all these queer and gender scientists are, and what do I know they're probably members of Mr. Uffe Elbæk's party all engaged in proving the opposite. That is why it has to be said that it is quite empirically obvious that there is an imbalance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131302	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131303	I would hope that they were all Members, because then it could be that we could be on the ballot paper in due course. But that's not what I asked. Yes, it was). I asked if there is anything factually documented about the quality of research, i.e. that the results that come from these departments are not in order. I did not ask what the rapporteur thinks and thinks. But are there any examples of research results that have not been in order from these places?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131336	Well, there's multiples. I have just referred empirically to what authoritative science says, while at the same time looking at all those gender studies there are researchers trying to document the opposite, namely that gender is something that you wake up with in the morning and think that how do I feel today. Of course, it's not science. It's politics. And that is why I am referring to the fact that they will then be members of Mr. Uffe Elbæk's party. As I said, I can also refer to Freias up in Aalborg, where one of the most recent publications I've seen is from February this year... has the headline "To make ripples and waves through feminist knowledge production and activism." In other words, just putting the word feminist on its research results, i.e. the production of knowledge, says that this is politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131415	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131416	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I am a little confused, because many of the research institutions and research centres mentioned here by the rapporteur have names that may sound a little funny. But is it the assumption that because they have a name that is about a field that the rapporteur may not be fully aware of? I do not suppose that the rapporteur has a degree in all these different fields. Is that a basic assumption, or is that something the rapporteur has to say? Because that's quite a lot of research fields. I can see that the rapporteurs have been looking at Science at the KU and have looked at what the various research centres are called. There's something called Cosmic Dawn Center. What's this? That's bullshit, 'cause it sounds like something weird. It's something about OutLaws & Allies. What's this? I don't know, so it's gotta be bullshit. Is it the assumption that because the rapporteur does not know the field, it is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131507	No, the assumption is that in the areas of queer, gender and all the other things I mentioned just now, there is clearly a free field of cultivation for socialism and radicalism that has already taken place in universities. It is not just a Danish phenomenon, it is a Western phenomenon. Well, this whole social justice theory is something that has been poured over us from the United States inspired by the French thinkers I mentioned before. That doesn't mean that if you have the resistance, you can't actually do proper research in these fields. But it just means that by far most of it drives in a different direction. That's what's sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131547	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131548	However, the rapporteur also mentioned, as far as I remember, advanced migration studies as being something that might be social justice theory and thus some pseudoscience. But without knowing about the area, because this is not my field, a study that deals with migration and even advanced migration sounds like something that is relevant to look at. We have migrations. We've had it forever. Is this not a relevant area of research?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131610	Yes, it is an extremely relevant research area, and I did actually, before I went to the platform, just the trouble of searching Google: university research, migration. And the first many results I didn't manage to get down to, that there should be something else • showed that migration was something fantastic positive, which is quite baroque, compared to how most citizens have gradually realised that migration thus has some major negative adverse effects, and at least know that there is a move of 33 billion. kr. a year on the Treasury. So there is, of course, a complete imbalance which is probably governed by precisely a political motivation in which, for its method of research, one chooses to define things in a certain way with a view to achieving a certain result. And that's political research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131646	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131647	Thank you. I think it is increasingly clear that the rapporteur thinks that research is political research if the rapporteur disagrees with the researchers. I would therefore like to ask again where it is that the rapporteur sees in these areas that it is not good research. Where is it that research is not proper? The rapporteur refers to a percentage for how many people identify with the gender with which they were born and to a headline, but is there any real criticism from other researchers that this research that is being carried out is not real research?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131722	Yes, there is. If the rapporteur has followed the debate that preceded our discussion here today, she will know that there are more from the research environments who have also taken part in the debate and have confirmed that there is a problem. Now I'm a lawyer, and it's such a bit more static field maybe, but I actually remember that in my period of study (Pernille Skipper (EL) there also cuts a grimass about criminal law. That's why I read Knud Waaben instead of reading Jørgen Vestergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131803	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131804	Okay, then, the rapporteur does not give examples of where this research is going exactly wrong in the city. That is because the rapporteur thinks that feminism in a headline, for example. shows that it is political research. But isn't research into political theories like Marxism and feminism also research, both if it goes in a direction that confirms these theories and if it goes in a direction that doesn't confirm them? Isn't that exactly what we need the research for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131827	Well, research into Marxism should somehow be part of doomsday research, I think. Feminism is, of course, what might be interesting, if you could find some reports in feminism research on how feminism screws people's heads, for example. I just can't find it. It has to be said that there is a very, very clear hint in the way research is conducted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131850	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131851	What I was crying about and making faces of before was "And now I'm also a lawyer" that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt tries to present the research field as such more precisely, I think was the word (Morten Messerschmidt Static), and I think that is also wrong, but it is more such a professional discussion. Perhaps that is the essence here, because it is trade discussions. Scientists disagree. But it just sounds like sir. Morten Messerschmidt thinks it's bad research if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt disagrees with most of the researchers in this area. Now I don't know if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has recognised climate change, but it is also such a reasonable mainstream in climate research that the changes are man-made. So because the majority of climate scientists agree that climate change is man-made, is it also stupid research or how can that be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528131954	No, you can't say that. Well, there's plenty of stupid climate research, but there's also plenty of talented climate research. And what's good about climate research is that it is based on scientific factors in most cases, as opposed to the theories that support people, so they vote on Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132008	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132009	Now it just sounds like sir. Morten Messerschmidt likes science better than humanism. Morten Messerschmidt Absolutely no, it may also be...). The acting Chairman, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Morten Messerschmidt I thought she was done). Okay, great, but all of a sudden it's gonna be a little bit more honest, not, because then we're back to what's at the core, and that's that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is angry when the researchers do not agree with the Danish People's Party. They come up with something else about feminism, they come up with something else about gender understanding, or they come up with something else about migration than what the Danish People's Party wants. Then it is not a question of freedom of research, so it is not a question of ensuring sound research. Then it's just a political discussion. So let us go to the Committee on Foreign Affairs or the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and take the political discussions where they belong instead of trying to cool people's freedom of research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132048	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132049	Sorry, I thought the questioner was done. I didn't mean to interrupt. No, when I say that I like science better, of course it is not true, in the sense that my heart is among other things. banks for literature. I love Europe's literature history and Danish literature history. It is also by reading that one understands, for example. How crazy Brandes was, etc. So in this way you acquire a better understanding of the world by diving into these areas. What I meant before was that the fields of science, which were among other things. Mr. Stinus Lindgreen excelled in before he entered the Folketing here, yet is more difficult to politicize. So there I would say that yes, there is a lot of crazy in the climate debate too. That is beyond any doubt, and we may be able to talk about that another time, but there are still more facts and science there than there are, for example. is in what gender do you feel you are here for the morning debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132144	Then it's Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132145	I would like to thank you for a very good rapporteur's speech, and I would also like to thank you for mentioning the social justice theory, which we are talking about too little here in the Folketing. One of the things the rapporteur did not say is that there are some fundamental things about social justice theory, and one is the assumption that when one theory displaces another theory, it is the power that brings in the new theory; it is not rationality. Normally science is based on the fact that it is rationality that displaces the old theories and puts the new ones in. Well, Newton's rationality repels the rationale of its predecessors. The second point is that the quality of what is being said depends on who says so, so that we do not have to make general truths in research. There are some truths for men and some other truths for women etc. etc. Can the rapporteur confirm that it is this bomb under science that is at the heart of the social justice theory?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132241	It can be said that in social justice theory it is the individual who defines, in other words it all becomes normative, whereas in the scientific world we have usually worked with objectivity requirements. If we had allowed the normative regime, for example, we would have been. never ended up with the heliocentric world picture, for then it would have been the church and the established power elite who had insisted that it was the earth that was the center of the world. I'm really glad we let Newton's theories, Giordano Bruno's theories, etc. It is simply on the premise of rationality and objectivity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132319	Sir. Henrik Dahl resigns, and then we thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we can move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132341	Thank you. In Denmark very important research is being carried out. It is a cornerstone of our democracy, and that is why research must of course be objective and meet strict quality requirements. That is why we also have well-functioning systems that ensure quality and research practice. This is happening, among other things. through a peer review that continuously creates a dialogue on methods, arguments and results among researchers who have the skills to assess and criticise. I think that makes a lot of sense. Our very clear comment in the SF on this debate is that it is first and foremost essential not to break the arm's length principle and that if there are challenges out there, it is a management responsibility and not a political responsibility. Of course, research environments must never be excluded or closed down, but it is, as I said, a management responsibility to prevent it. It is in the interests of democracy that we should have freedom of research and that freedom should not be attacked, either by the research environment itself or by us politicians, because there is something that we do not like. Of course, we must be able to ask questions about research and researchers must be able to deal with criticism. Therefore, they should not be wrapped in cotton wool either. However, like the rapporteur on the Left, I am quite concerned that these very heated debates affect the desire of researchers to participate in the public debate. So, the Danish Magisters' Association has found out that one in six people experiences squeezing and thus do not want to participate, and I think the debate today also shows this when highlighting specific researchers by name and specific small research faculties. I think that's too bad. I think the debate should be about whether we have a research environment that ensures that we have free research. As politicians, it is not our job to call out research results or areas that we do not like. In the SF we will do what we can to ensure the freedom of research in Denmark, because this is therefore a prerequisite for an enlightened and democratic society. This requires responsibility on the part of the managements to ensure that all research and criticism of research is welcome, and this requires a responsibility on our politicians in not wanting to limit, identify or try to hide research that we do not like. We have produced a text for adoption together with the Radical Left and the Enhedslist, which the rapporteur on the Radical Left will be reading in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132626	Thank you. There is one person who has wanted to make a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132628	Thank you for your speech, which unfortunately I do not think relates to what is at the heart of this discussion or one of the cores of what we are discussing is that there is no guarantee that self-regulation always works. Self-regulation can run off the rails, so that critical questions that should be answered remain unanswered. And what the proposal for adoption says is that when it happens that self-regulation goes off the rails, we expect management to get it back on track. Does the rapporteur not recognise that self-regulation can get off the rails and that something must be done? Because we cannot accept that self-regulation is derailing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132719	Of course, and it is therefore extremely important that the managements take a responsibility to ensure this. The reason why I think we are missing a little with the proposal for adoption that a majority has written is that it is a little implicitly said that there are some things that are skewed. And studies from the DM show, for example, that in this area there are not really any major problems, and I think it is strange to send out a signal that it is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132740	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132745	I think it is a little comical, and I think it is similar to the invasion of Iraq when the left-wing continues to say that there is no problem, even if tanks roll in the background. But, of course, the left has to do that. But what I want to ask is whether another core of criticism is that it is a criticism of the very basic way in which science works, where there are parts of research that have begun to say that it is not rationality that pushes out bad ideas and puts in new ideas, but that it is a power. That's wrong, because if it was true, we still had a world picture with the earth in the center, but this thing about putting a bomb under the very scientific way of working, isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132829	It is a problem if research is not proper, and that is why we have some systems that make research look into the nails. And it is also important to respond to the criticisms that are being made and to ensure that system in the research environments. We must, of course, continue to do so, but I do not want to interfere in exactly what theories are used, because I do not think I should actually be a politician.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132848	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132850	Mrs Astrid Carøe asked me earlier whether I could mention anyone in the university world who shared Mr. Henrik Dahl's and my point of view. I didn't remember the name, but I have found it now, namely Marianne Stidesen from the University of Copenhagen, who has, of course, interfered in the debate and among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Henrik Dahl and I, but precisely those that we point out as the problem, which she also regards as the problem. Does Mrs Astrid Carøe recognise that there are people in the Danish academic environment, among others. at the University of Copenhagen, which recognizes the criticism that Mr. Henrik Dahl and yours are exponents of?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132930	Yes, it was good that there was an example of that. I think that's quite fair. One can disagree, and what is also the essence of this is that we should have the opportunity to do so and that we should not impose restrictions on areas of research which we do not like. What I am just saying is that the study from DM, for example, does not show this here and that I do not see where it is that one cannot criticise the research being carried out in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528132957	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt is resigning. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we can move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528133016	Thank you, President. I have looked very much forward to this question debate. Research policy is far too little in the public debate, so this is a welcome opportunity to focus on this important agenda. Having said that, I do not think it has only been nice to see the attacks that have been directed at certain research environments, and I hope that we in this Chamber can have a slightly more constructive and curious dialogue. We must discuss whether there is excessive activism in certain research environments leading to poor science and whether it calls for action by the Minister, we must assume, in order to examine the extent of the problem. I can therefore begin by saying that I do not recognise the questioners' premise. I believe that much of the debate here suffers from a confusion of concepts. I am in the lucky position that, in addition to reading numerous speeches and the like from the two authors, I am also the happy owner of Mr. Henrik Dahl's well-written book on identity policy from last year. There are plenty of examples of debates that I also shake my head over. I believe that everything must be debatable. Ideas must be challenged and broken. We must not shut down the free thought, let alone the universities. But what this debate is about is research, not debate, not currents in society, not activists. No, the question is whether there is a problem with fields of research that have sacrificed the scientific virtues and practice politics disguised as science, and whether this is a growing problem that undermines our universities. As you know, I myself come from a classic positivist background in science. I grew up with and spent most of my life on numbers, objectivity, statistics, and such glories. I don't subscribe to the idea that everything is relative. No, there must be scientific standards regardless of your subject area. This is also true in the areas highlighted by the two authors, but I still have good reason to see evidence that this is not the case. I also believe that the two rapporteurs are unfortunately overlooking some basic things about the role of universities in society. They must, of course, produce research of the highest quality, but that is not their only role. They must interact with society; they must encourage employees to participate in the public debate. Universities have always been active participants in the debate, criticized the existing and challenged our world view, and they must continue to do so. I myself began to interfere in the public debate when I was doing my PhD, and it happened in response to poor research: the so-called intelligent design, which is just good old-fashioned creationism with a thin fernis of scientific jargon, and I have since repeated, every time I have had the opportunity, that scientists in my view have a duty to interfere in the debate. We have all been involved in funding their education, and their knowledge should therefore come into play and qualify the debate and we should call for that from in here. Well, now I know Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl quite well from negotiations on the research reserve, and I know that Mr. Henrik Dahl and I agree and are passionate about free research. I am therefore a little surprised that both rapporteurs here are acting in a way that is intended or not likely to undermine research freedom in Denmark. So when whole areas are put out of hand, and when research is ridiculed on one basis, I believe, caricatured, it has consequences, just as it is of course not entirely innocent to ask the Minister for some kind of action. It's seen and heard in the environments. I believe that our primary task here is to ensure freedom of research, to guarantee the autonomy of universities and the right to choose their own fields of research, to provide management with the right tools to deal with the poor research that certainly occurs. I have no reason to claim that there are problems on that front. There is poor research, there are failed theories, there are flawed articles. This is true in all areas and will always be the case. That is why research has a system of peer criticism designed to ensure quality and improve research. All active researchers know that much of the work consists of criticising and being criticised. The areas often highlighted in this debate are no different, and I have not yet seen any evidence that this should be the case. These are quite often groups which receive large amounts of funding from both Danish and international funds and which cooperate with reputable groups all over the world. We must be very careful not to shove out research because it comes with uncomfortable truths, because where does it stop? Is traffic research an activist if it demonstrates a link between speed and accidents? Is climate research an activist when it demonstrates a link between human activity and rising temperatures? And can a researcher make a political statement if his or her research has led to knowledge that affects his or her attitude to political issues? Universities fulfil an incredibly important role in society and we should be pleased that they are active participants and not just passive observers. It's good for all of us. Finally, I would like to read out a text for adoption which so far has the support of RV, SF, Enhedslisten, Alternativet og Uffe Elbæk (UFG): Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that universities have the task of conducting research at the highest international level, living in interaction with society and encouraging employees to participate in the public debate. The role of universities is knowledge-generating, critically thinking and informative, and universities are therefore both descriptive, interpreting and normative. The Folketing shall ensure the necessary framework for universities to fulfil their objectives, including, in particular, to ensure the freedom of research and expression and the freedom for universities to designate relevant subject areas. The Danish Parliament notes that science is self-regulating and that it is up to the professional environments to debate new research and new ideas. Professional disputes shall not be settled politically. Parliament must ensure that universities continue to have the necessary tools to protect professionalism. The Folketing shall not define what is good science, relevant subject areas or appropriate methods. The members of the Folketing can, of course, participate in the open debate on an equal footing with everyone else. V 138). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528133630	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will now form part of the further examination of the matter. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528133637	Thank you for an exciting speech, and thank you for an exciting adoption text. I am, of course, pleased to hear that the rapporteur has read my book, which I have even signed; but once the rapporteur has read the book, the rapporteur knows that the discussion is not about the theory it is about method. What is being criticised is the method, and what is being criticised in particular is that self-regulation can go off the rails because poor research is also being institutionalised. The concept of peer review means: assessment of equals. And that means that the equals to bad researchers are other bad researchers. That's what the term equals means. That is why I think that the statement misses the mark. Because there are plenty of criticisms of institutionalised judgements running off the rails. It comes from Marianne Stidesen; and it came in the Berlingske Tidende on the weekend I think it was from Professor Lars Qvortrup. There has been Nikolai Foss who has also criticised these things. So what do you do when self-regulation goes off the rails?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528133749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528133750	Thank you. Henrik Dahl points out that the solution lies straight ahead. The professional criticism, the scientific criticism, of course, works. I have no evidence to say that this doesn't work, that the system has collapsed. There is criticism, there must be criticism. If we go back to the 1980s, there were also violent ideas about how to think in the field of humanities and social sciences. It led to some interesting thoughts, and much of it has dropped again. That's what science is. Sometimes you run out of a siding, and it turns out it doesn't belong anywhere, and then you give it up. Does any of what's going on today end in a blind trail? Probably. So is research. Will any of this be useful in years? Probably. But it's not up to me or mr. Henrik Dahl to define it. I think that should lie and lie outside the professional environments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528133841	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528133842	But what Professor Qvortrup says in his criticism is that there is research today at Danish universities, which are affected by some very deep problems. The one problem he mentions is that one has stopped having truth as an ideal. We know that one cannot reach the truth, but the truth is an ideal one can strive for even if one cannot achieve it. The second thing is to be able to produce general results, i.e. to reject the possibility of general results. These are basic methodological problems that I challenge because it means that science cannot be done. Isn't it a problem that something like that exists?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528133919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528133920	There are bad subject areas, there are bad researchers, this is a fact and it must be criticised. It will also disappear in time, I have every reason to believe. It must, of course, be brought forward. I don't want to defend all the researchers, every research environment and every field of research in the world... I can't, and I don't want to. I just don't think that's our job. And you have to be very careful not to cross a border where you get to stool something that is actually well-functioning, good, useful research, because it somehow hits something you don't like. That is the concern I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528133949	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528133951	I certainly wouldn't expect Mr. Stinus Lindgreen can relate to all the research environments in the world I will confine myself to Denmark. And I'm gonna ask Mr. Simpson. Stinus Lindgreen to reflect on the recent incident in connection with Professor Wæver, who I believe is actually an internationally recognised peace researcher, but who was suddenly accused from university level of being a racist because he has dealt in particular with failed states and civil wars, and so there are only the most of them in Africa. Is this not a very good example of a politically driven trend in some research environments against the profession?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134029-2	This is certainly an example of the fact that a researcher has been subjected to unfair criticism, which has also been dealt with. Of course I know that too, and I also think that the criticism was totally mistaken; and it was countered by a long article by Ole Wæver himself. My clear conviction, after hearing what Ole Wæver says, is that he does not agree with the criticism made by the two rapporteurs. He won't be used as a spearhead for a criticism of this as a general problem. The chronicle of the rapporteurs back in March mentions Ole Wæver and Eske Willerslev as two examples of researchers who are subjected to unjustified criticism of racism. That's right. Now I know Eske Willerlslev pretty well. History is, of course, there that he was criticized and that he disagreed with the criticism. But he thinks it was quite fair that the criticism was raised. Students must be allowed to make criticisms. It then led nowhere because the students could not prove that there was a problem at all. But you just have to be careful that you don't use people in a fight that you certainly can't use them in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134130	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134131	After all, this is a discussion that is also taking place in other Western countries, among others. In Britain, where Gavin Williamson, the British Minister of Education, has found the problems so serious, among other things. Because 26%. that the students at King's University found that violence was an appropriate tool to use against people who came with hatepeech and who then of course have the right to define what hatepeech is. Could Mr. Stinus Lindgreen does not fear that, as among others. Mr Williamson's report from the United Kingdom describes very, very serious matters, could be the future of Denmark if we do not do something which, of course, is precisely that, Mr President. Henrik Dahl and I want to do today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134206	If there is a problem, you have to intervene. I haven't seen any evidence that there's a problem. Unfortunately, I do not know the report from the United Kingdom as well • I regret that I would like to read it afterwards. But I can see that the debate is running in many countries. But just because other countries are making an erroneous approach to this doesn't mean that we have to copy it in Denmark. In France, which has been mentioned by among others. Mr. Henrik Dahl, similar steps have been taken. It has also been widely criticised in the academic environments, and I think that criticism is justified. And it's the same criticism that's been raised here at home. But, of course, if those numbers, sir. Morten Messerschmidt suggests here that so many people believe that violence is a valid way of dealing with problems, so of course we are not behind it. But if it is a research problem, I simply cannot comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134248	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134314	I'm coming for sir. Stinus Lindgreen every time, so I need 10 seconds of extra time, because I always come after him and first have to lower the desk! Thank you, President. And I was just about to say thank you for raising the debate, but I really do not think so today it was a reflex. I think that the discussion that has been going on in some media, and which we have here today, is in fact a fundamental problem for freedom of research and freedom of expression, and hence for something very basic in our democracy. For my conclusion, after a long debate, must be that what is basically the problem is that rapporteurs from the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party and now, unfortunately, with the support of the Social Democrats and others, have politically disagreed with some researchers and have then made it a matter of whether they are doing irresponsible research or pushing other researchers. So, in this debate we have to start by recognising that everyone has the right to criticise research, everyone does, but we are also at the centre of power today, and that means something. And it has a cooling effect on researchers' desire to research in specific themes and on their desire to disseminate their research results when they exert indirect political pressure in this way. I come back to why I think it is. I think that pressure is coming indirectly because for many years we have been transferring more and more funds to strategic research funds and less to basic research, and this means that just a little bit closer to research is being turned into a political governance • every eternally single year. At the same time, we also see an increase in demands for private cofinancing and management of themes, and we have even seen examples of pressure to change conclusions in the research world from private participation. And all this helps to set a certain agenda, just as it has a cooling effect on the participation of researchers in the public debate. Moreover, this is true of our participation in the public debate if you are suddenly met by a very, very harsh individual criticism from those in power. And it is not because you do not have freedom of expression as the ruler, you do, but you have to think about your particular status, I think. I would also like to say that we have the right to disagree with this before anyone questions it. I think that this threat to launch a clean-up in universities is quite shameful, and it is in fact the phrase that mostly encapsulates why I think this debate is so destructive. But the Minister's statements are because the minister has the position that the minister has almost worse, because there our research minister has said that if we politicians are not to interfere, they should also not conduct activism and politics with their research, with an underlying threat that the minister might get involved, so that we do not just have the entirely legitimate debate about research results, or that as a political party you select what kind of research results you want to use and what kind of research you do not want to use, which is also legitimate. So, climate change deniers are challenged by their peers it is very natural that there are some things that are more or less a premise in a particular research environment. In the field of economic research, there has been a very mainstream approach for many years, with which I personally and my party have very much disagreed, because it has been a very one-eyed approach to economic policy, as if it were some kind of natural effects. We are not trying to change that politically, but there are other researchers, new critically thoughtful students, who are challenging that. That is the way things are going; that is the way it should be; it is not something we should be running politically. This is not a violation of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that I do not agree with him and that I say it out loud. It is not a violation of Jyllands-Posten's right to print the Mohammed drawings that I say that I thought it was silly done. It is not a violation of the freedom of research to be judged or criticised by peers. And that's what's really important. And then we're back to the fact that what the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party are upset about is that there are some scientists with whom they disagree. That is fair enough; so let us take that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134817	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134820	First of all, I am very surprised at how Mrs Pernille Skipper can know whether or not I am offended. I thought that the whole principle of Enhedslisten's thinking was that the concept of violation was something that the recipient should define, but it may be that one has not yet fully mastered one's dogmatics. In other words, when Mrs Pernille Skipper asks about specific research areas, I would also like to ask back specifically in migration studies where I remember that for a long, long time it was the university's line that migration was good, that Islam was a religion of peace and that it would only lead to a great bliss, while at the same time seeing the ROCKWOOL Foundation and other such serious private research units pointing out the problems up through the 1990s and 00s. Now, a year ago, we got a new book from three researchers, Yvonne Mørck, Bo Wagner Sørensen and Sofie Danneskiold-Samsøe, which actually documents how migration research has extensive problems with researchers closing their eyes, for example. the cultural factor. So what I just want to hear is: what does Mrs Pernille Skipper think about that contribution to research? Does this mean that she might reconsider her views?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528134936	It is not a contribution to the research I have read. It may well be that I disagree, and it may also be that there is good reason why I disagree, or bad reason why I disagree. That's the whole point. Let's take that discussion. Well, if that's the concrete research contribution, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt would like to discuss it, then I think we should call a question debate on it, and then I would like to read it, but that is not what we are standing here with. We're standing here because sir... Morten Messerschmidt and the Liberal Alliance want to act on and clean up the universities. I will not object to the scientists, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt refers to now, is in their full right and probably also peer-reviewed and all sorts of other things, but I can therefore disagree with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135021	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135023	It was just because Mrs Pernille Skipper said just now that when I disagreed with the research being carried out in universities, it is because I politically disagreed with it. Now we have some researchers who say methodically that much of that research does not live up to such general principles within academy. I know that this is such a bizarre discussion, where there is the fundamental research itself in whether migration is good or not, and then there is research into migration research. Now I would like to point out a research result that shows that there are errors in migration research, and then I just want to know if it does that Mrs Pernille Skipper will consider perhaps doing something about the premises of migration research. Or should more research be carried out before the migration research that is the basis of Enhedslisten's migration policy may be revised?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135105	The point is that yes, there is always criticism of other researchers in different environments; there is always, and fortunately this is happening all the time, but that should not lead us from the political point of view to threatening to clean up certain fields of research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135128	Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135129	First of all, I would like to say a lot of thanks for a good speech. Then maybe I'll move the focus a bit somewhere else, because we've heard from both DF and LA that this agenda is also unfolding in Europe, etc. etc. Then I wanted to ask Enhedslisten whether Enhedslisten sees this debate we have today as an expression of what we see in Europe. Not the examples presented by the Danish People's Party and LA, but the examples that we see in Poland and Hungary, where it can be seen that national conservative forces are taking action with criticism of refugees, of feminists, oflgbt groups. You go straight in and go after these university studies, and in Hungary you have even tried to close universities. Is there a link between the debate we have here and what is going on in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135238	I would now like to say hurry up and say here that I do not think anyone here wants to close down specific universities. I don't think so. But there is no doubt that there is a tendency for certain political attitudes to swim in from political groups in research environments and either directly or indirectly to try to influence them in their optics right direction. Now we see that here, in other countries we see it to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135309	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135310	What I see when I look out in Europe is that the whole radicalised national conservative flow is targeting both specific groups in the population and specific research environments and researchers at the university. In some places, you go after departments. In Hungary it has been seen that a university has been officially closed down. What I am asking is whether the Enhedslisten sees that there is a reflection of the debate we are having in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135344	I tried to say yes, but with the reservation that things look worse in other countries. I would very much hate to go too because I know these gentlemen here are being taken as income to say that someone here is trying to close universities. There isn't. But there is no doubt that there is a tendency to use political positions of power to target those with whom one disagrees politically. I believe that this debate on freedom of research in Denmark and the threat of restricting freedom of research are part of the very, very unfortunate development which is not only in Denmark but also in the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135423	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135445	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. Contrary to the previous rapporteur, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for this debate, because I think it is actually an important discussion, as Mr. Henrik Dahl and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt suggests that we have that in parts of postmodernist professional environments in the humanities and social sciences research is being produced, which seems to be driven by political activism and where quality can be questioned. When we have this discussion in Denmark, it is also because we are looking at what is going on abroad. There are examples from Portland State University which have succeeded in getting a number of false and absurd articles included in recognised journals. For example: Some studies claimed that dogs carried out rapes on each other in dog parks and that the reaction of male dog owners revealed that they themselves were part of that rape culture. Scientists even made a recommendation that dog owners could benefit from being trained like dogs. Frankly, I think that is quite absurd. Fortunately, this is an example from abroad and not from Denmark, but I think it shows that this is something that we should ensure that this is something we should be aware of, and therefore this debate is relevant. Sir. Henrik Dahl and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt points out that in certain politically activeist environments in the postmodernist tradition, something which is very difficult to see as serious research is recognised and where even the most absurd conclusions are accepted as long as it is politically convenient. This is a problem which, among other things, is of concern to us. Weekendavisen has also helped uncover. I agree that this is a worrying problem and I agree that we do not in any way want the trends in identity policy, which have been hard-hitting in the United States in particular, to be spread at Danish universities. So the question is, what are we gonna do about this? I would like to emphasise, and it is really important to me, that we, as politicians, should not go into detail about what is going to happen and what is going to be researched at Danish universities. The arm's length principle is important. But when scientists say that politicians shouldn't interfere with what good research or good science is, they must, of course, even in this debate, become more keen to define what good science is and what isn't good science. This responsibility must be given greater attention to the management of universities. The universities were able to examine for themselves whether the research produced under their roof meets the virtues and criteria of science that should be agreed upon. In conclusion, I would like to stress that no one can misunderstand the fact that we must safeguard free research. We need to protect the corporate income tax that exists. I am not going to decide what is good research and what is bad research. But I would like to thank you for the debate here today, because I think it has been exciting and it has certainly made me wiser. So thank the proposers for taking this up. And as Mr. Henrik Dahl mentioned earlier, we support in the Conservatives the proposal for adoption which Mr. Henrik Dahl read.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528135843	Thank you for that and also thank you for the debate. We have had it before, both in this Chamber and also in the media. I want to say straight away that I take seriously Henrik Dahl and Morten Messerschmidt's considerations, regardless of how much I agree or disagree with them. When they went out and started raising these questions, I thought: Now I simply have to find out what is up and down in it, because not least Henrik Dahl excels in so really standing up for both the freedom of research and the quality of research, and there is always a question of what are assumptions and what are the facts. First of all, I asked the Minister a sea of questions: whether the Minister was aware of this problem and whether the Minister thought there was a problem. And although the Minister in my optics was such a little wool in the answers, I will take it down anyway that I was told that there was no question of there being a loss of quality when we talk about the quality of research. There was no loss in that area. In fact, we were very well placed in the international assessments. And when it comes to freedom of research, it was not something that the Minister was aware of, but then the Minister made all the same arguments that we also heard in the first speech when the Minister stood here. So I certainly could not be told by the Minister that there was a problem. Then I read what the Rector College had said, that is, all the rectors of our universities. They said there was no problem either. So I thought, is there anywhere else you can go and look at surveys? What I could then find out about it may be that there are more were the Danish Magisters Association and their study of whether the freedom of research at Danish universities is under pressure. They then conclude: Yes, there is pressure on the researchers. There are scientists who experience them being pressured. But the interesting thing was that it was not in the area of identity policy, in other words all the issues that we have discussed today, no, it was in the field of nature, health and technical matters. And where they experience the pressure coming from is from the authorities, it's from business, and it's from the funds. That's where there's a problem. So far along the way, I find that this is a political agenda from two specific parties that do not like specific researchers, specific research departments and specific subjects such as gender, class, racism and power structures. I just want to say to you people who are researching these areas: keep researching, because these are important issues in understanding the society we are a part of. Then I don't have any more time, because as a privateist, you only have three minutes, just so people understand why I have to cut it fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140202	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Can't I have another two minutes?). Not in this round. Thank you. Then we have finished the rapporteur's round. Once we've got the liquor off, we can go to the Minister of Education and Research. Let's do it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140233	Thank you for that, President. Many perspectives have been mentioned today, many different considerations about the value of our research. I would like to emphasise, as I also began by stating that it is a vital force in our democracy, in our formation, in the social model that we have, that we have free and independent research. I would also like to stress that my business in this debate is precisely to safeguard that freedom. There are several who have stressed that there is also pressure on the freedom of research from other edges. That is why we have discussed beef reports. That is why, at my very first entry into office, I sent a letter to all those involved in the research-based authority service and said that we should not contribute to that pressure, not even from the authorities and from the political side. But there is also pressure within the research environments. It is an important discussion how we ensure that there is a continuous focus from our universities' management to safeguard the freedom of the individual researcher, no matter where that pressure comes from. I am in good dialogue with the management of our universities about this. I am aware of this dialogue, that is to say, that there is a great deal of responsibility from their hands in terms of safeguarding it and backing it up, not only backing the researchers and calling on the researchers who, for example, are in favour of it. experience political pressure, but actually also be the direction of the part of the researchers who are experiencing the other kind of pressure. I believe that this is an important task and I believe that it is part of my responsibility as Minister to have that dialogue with the managements constantly and continuously. On the other hand, it is not my responsibility as Minister to go in and judge individual research projects or to hang out individual researchers, and I have therefore, throughout this debate, refrained from doing so. I will continue to refrain from doing so, despite the fact that I feel like the radical rapporteur who says that there are plenty of debates I am shaking my head off. Fortunately, we are different, and we have different attitudes and approaches to life, and research should, of course, cover a broad perspective on the world in which we live. Fortunately, we also have researchers who are pushing our society and our development forward. There also has from several edges, among others. from Mr. Henrik Dahl, been examples of the great breakthroughs that research has also brought us through. Those breakthroughs require a certain amount of freedom, but also a certain amount of criticism. It is the freedom and place in the individual research environment that I earnestly appeal to all of us to work for, including the management of our universities. In order to criticize and be criticized, it is precisely at the heart of being a researcher. It must also be in the future, and that is why the debate is at the heart of our universities, but I believe that it is also at an overall level here with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140616	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140617	I have to admit that I hear the Minister going on eggshells, and it may be that it is quite wrong to hear that. I hear, on the one hand, that the Minister says that we must be vigilant about the freedom of research and the quality of research, on which we all agree. On the other hand, I also hear the Minister say that there is pressure within the research environments. Then I get confused. In other words, is there a problem, or is there not a problem in the specific area, as this debate deals with gender research, research into racism, research into class and research into force? Is there a problem, or is there not a problem from the Minister's point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140707	It's definitely easier in this debate to get on the outskirts either to say that there's no problem or to say that everything over here is wrong. I do not, and if the rapporteur wants to call it eggshells, go ahead. I am ringing and upholding the fundamental freedom of research and the arm's length principle, but without fear of touch, when in some places there is an experience of pressure, whether it is from companies, whether it is from and as authorities, or whether it is from peers and colleagues, I think it is something we should discuss. You might call that going egg shells; I call it having a balance in this debate, which I think is quite important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140750	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140750-2	I would like to stress that we must, of course, be able to discuss it and, if there was a problem, we should look at it. But my problem is that I haven't been documented. When I ask the Minister if there is a problem, I get a no. When I hear what the Rector College says, I get a no. When I look at the reports that have been made about the pressure on the quality and freedom of research, it is in some other areas. So what does the Minister think? Is there really a problem that we really need to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140831	I would like to point out that my approach in this debate has always been to take the overall • not indulge in individual research projects and researchers and not name anyone, but to take seriously that there are researchers who are very much in the humanist and social sciences field, I experience, but also to some extent broader • who experience that there are some conclusions that are harder to reach among colleagues than others. This is something that I, as Minister for Research, will have to raise in my dialogue with the rectors whether they are aware of and are fighting for. Are they also the leaders of those who experience that pressure? I think that discussion is relevant. I have no interest in standing and scolding single-scientists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140914	Thank you. Then I had Mr. Stinus Lindgreen on the marker is gone here, but the lamp was shining. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen has risen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140922	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. The Minister said in his opening speech that the Minister did not see a need for a fundamental study of the area, and I would just like to repeat and acknowledge that, because I think that is quite important to repeat here. But I would like an answer as to whether the Minister thinks there is a need for anything else. The dialogue, the debate is always important to have, and of course we must continue to have it, but is there any need for anything else, or does the university have the tools, the tools they need? Are they fulfilling their responsibilities, or do the Minister think there is something we have to do from in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528140955	In fact, it is part of the dialogue I have with the universities' managements, both on how we get to the light, if you experience this pressure, but also, if there are the necessary tools. I do not want to conclude at this stage, I just want to say that I have a factual and proper dialogue. I see a great desire as leadership to take on what the law says they must, namely to safeguard the freedom of research and the scientific method. Of course, as responsible minister, I will continue to insist on this, so what is happening, and I am listening, in relation to whether there is a lack of tools in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141034	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141035	Thank you. In any case, my experience is that they are fulfilling their responsibilities and doing what they have to do in order to ensure that it is proper quality, and to ensure that the good people are employed and the bad ones are sacked. But does the Minister have experience that there is uniformity out there, that there is politics disguised as science and that there is a systematic avoidance of justified professional criticism in the environment? Is this something that the Minister recognizes as a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141108	It is one thing we can see that is booming in some environments abroad, and that is why, of course, it is also something we need to pay attention to at home. There is often a connection, in relation to things first growing, for example. at the American universities and later come to us. I don't have an impression of that, sir. Uffe Elbæk also asked about the fact that we generally have decreasing research quality on the contrary, we have world-class research. Nor do I have the impression that we have major general problems, but we have single researchers and individual environments who experience that there are things that are harder to conclude than others. This must, of course, be something that we, as a management, support if not take place, and of course I have that dialogue as a minister. I have no interest in either hanging out individual areas or being the minister who intervenes. On the contrary, it is a senior management responsibility, and according to the law it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141202	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141205	Thank you to the Minister for trying to maintain a balance. I mean, I don't really disagree with you that this is important. But I still miss it, especially when the minister's party has made a text for adoption, which has a premise that we have a problem, along with the right, that someone is explaining to me I am not a scientist, but try to explain to me what the difference is between being criticized by the majority in his field of work, peer-reviewed one can also say, and then being subjected to political activism or pressure and alignment. Well, what's the difference there? I ask because the Minister has made a threat in the media that says that if we are not to interfere from political groups, they, the researchers, should not also engage in activism and politics with their research. So I think it's pretty good for them to know when the minister thinks that limit has exactly been breached.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141313	I have no interest in being the one who goes in and is responsible for it. It's a management responsibility. I have emphasized this over and over again. At the same time, I would also like to say that, as Mr. Stinus Lindgreen also said that being a scientist is criticizing and being criticized, but it has to be done by the method; it should not be done by the conclusion. I think that is a very big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141338	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141340	So, if there is a lack of methodology in a profession, do politicians have to get involved? Well, I just have to understand that. Because the Minister has told Kristeligt Dagblad that if we politicians are not to interfere, they should not engage in activism and politics with their research either, so I just want to know when you are engaging in activism and politics with your research. This is, of course, quite crucial, because this is clearly the limit that the Minister himself has for when we enter as politicians and interfere in research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141419	I now responded to the rapporteur's first remark. I think it was mixed up up up here by me, i.e. when to be criticized by colleagues and when to experience pressure that reduces the freedom of research in the environment. I believe, as several others have said, that criticising, that is to say peer-review, etc., is an absolutely central cornerstone of the research environment we have, but that being pressured, in relation to whether it is right to conclude, if otherwise the method, approach and scientific practice have been observed, is simply a problem, and that is where freedom is being restricted. To the second part, I would like to say that this is, of course, about real research. It must be real research that is being carried out, and it is about science, it is about method, it is about everything that we also have in the peer reviews, and of course that is what our research money has to go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141517	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141518	I would like to thank the Minister, and indeed everyone else who is here, for a very good and necessary debate, which I really believe goes further in the future than many other things we are working on. It seems to me that self-regulation is at the heart of this discussion that self-regulation is the backbone of the way the scientific community works, but self-regulation can run off the rails so that it is not perfect and so self-regulation does not really get things out that might need to be lured out if self-regulation worked better. That brings me to my question. Denmark is not a large country, so many of us research rapporteurs know the rectors. We have some very talented and conscientious principals. They will probably come back now, perhaps asking for some instruments to take the final step of making self-regulation work. Is that something where we could agree together to say that then we would like to give the rectors the opportunity to get the last instruments they lack to work perfectly for self-regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141635-2	Well, I think it is absolutely crucial that our senior management team has the will to actually safeguard freedom of research, no matter where the pressure comes from. There will always be pressure on research, because there is a lot of power in research. There will always be pressure on it. It is the management's job to make that pressure as small as possible. They must, of course, have a framework for this, and they must, of course, have tools for that. As I think I also replied to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen's question, then it is a dialogue that I am very willing to take, and if it requires that something is needed from the Folketing in relation to dressing management in relation to tools, then I would be happy to go that way too. But it's all about it being a management responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141714	Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141716	After all, there are several rapporteurs who have said that there are no people within the system who have made criticisms. That's not entirely true. Lars Qvortrup, who is a high, highly estimated professor at the DPU and who has made one excellent book after another, has recently made a criticism which also points to some deep problems. He says: If you drop truth as an ideal, and if you drop generalisation as an ideal, you kind of drop existing ideas about science. After all, it is also a discussion that we should expect the rectors to move forward. So what if we stop believing in an ideal that what is being done should apply in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141805	Well, I actually find that we have university principals all over the country who are interested in that particular dispute. And the research ideal of which the universities have been rounded up, I actually experience that we have rectors who are concerned with. But that is why it is still important to have a continuous dialogue on how we do it in practice and, above all, how they, as leaders, carry out this very important task on behalf of both our society and our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141834	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210528141847	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 1 June 2021 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
