ParlaMint-DK_20211126100004	Today there is the following review: Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Pernille Skipper (EL): Hasteforskning nr. F 15 (Will the government explain how it will address the obvious and acute capacity challenges in health care and when the employees and patients can expect the government to act to ensure the working environment and patient safety?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. The Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written tourism policy statement. R 9). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk
ParlaMint-DK_20211126100035	Negotiations opened. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126100054	Thank you, President. I am here to replace our legal rapporteur, who was unable to be here. The bill we are now dealing with first-reading contains a number of amendments which should help to reduce the risk of captivity. Unfortunately, it happens sometimes that inmates try to escape from Danish prisons and forensic institutions. We have among other things. seen some dramatic examples in recent years. When inmates try to escape, it creates insecurity. These are people who are locked up for a reason and who, of course, must stay behind bars until they have endured their punishment. That is why security must be in order, both in the interests of society in general and, of course, also in the interests of the staff of the institutions and of the prisons. The Minister of Justice has therefore asked a number of relevant authorities to draw up an action plan to address the challenges of prison escape. Parliament received the action plan in the spring. It contains ten joint initiatives from the authorities, and the aim of the draft law today is to implement those initiatives which require legislative changes in the field of justice. First of all, the proposal contains new rules to increase the possibility of using letter and visitor checks on persons in custody who are evicted, as it is called, and visits to in custody bikers and gang members. Unfortunately, it is the case that some fugitives get help from outside, so if we give more opportunity to use letter and visitor control, we will improve the police's ability to discover that a prison escape is on the way. Secondly, the draft law contains rules designed to increase the possibility of holding video court meetings if it is considered that the accused or accused person is at risk of escape. The risk of escape is greatest when the authorities have to deal with prisoners outside the institutions for various reasons. Escape attempts have been made on several occasions in connection with the holding of hearings. Increased use of video court meetings could therefore limit the risk of escape. Thirdly, the proposal contains amendments to the Penal Code with a view to increasing the scope for criminal services to use handcuffs and other means of protection. Handcuffs are an important tool for the authorities. This applies both to ensuring that there are no escape attempts, but also to the safety of employees. Additional tools may prove necessary, and therefore the draft law provides that rules on additional means of security may be laid down. As mentioned, the bill has been made on the basis of recommendations from the authorities, the authorities who daily deal with the inmates who are under threat and know what is needed. We therefore think it is good to follow their recommendations. This makes sense and we need to overcome these challenges in order to ensure security among the staff in prisons and the other institutions in particular. It is important that our legal society provides security and provides security and guarantees that people who have been given a prison sentence will actually remain in office until it is served. It is also important that our employees can feel safe when they go to work and fulfil an important role for the community. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126100358	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126100412	Thank you. When you're in prison, you're supposed to stay in prison until you're released. It should be a matter of course. In recent years, however, it has become apparent that several inmates have used a hearing or similar outcome to seek early freedom. We must, of course, do all we can to stop this, partly for the sake of the general sense of justice and partly for the sake of witnesses and others who may have done their civic duty in connection with the trial. For example, a court hearing in connection with a deadline extension that does not take place on video is a welcome opportunity for an escape attempt. We have seen several examples where the prisoner has not come out the toilet door, but out the window. Increased opportunities are proposed for video meetings, not only in the context of small extension sessions, but also in the context of the final main debate, provided that the defendant is deemed to be the escape threat. In addition, the possibilities for letter and visitor control for escape victims as well as for bikers and gang members are increased. In addition, more handcuffs can be used in the transport of escaped prisoners and prisoners who have committed violence in prison. Finally, the proposal provides for the possibility of extending the powers of decision in certain cases of termination. All these measures could be avoided if we had top-proof prisons as abroad and, in popular terms, locked the prisoners into the cells 24 hours. In Denmark, however, we have a hope of getting the inmates back as whole people and not as wrecked wrecks, which only appeal to new crime. That is why we are addressing other solutions, and the proposals here are quite moderate. Overall, therefore, the Left can support the proposal as it stands. As I said earlier, it is not a joke that you are in custody. As I have said, concern for the public and the persons involved in the case offers a certain degree of safe protection against the fact that prisoners of custody and sentenced persons are not released before time. We therefore support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126100610	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no one inscribed for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blix from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126100619	It is a proposal that is about trying to stem the flight of prisoners and about the circumstances of certain prisoners during the service of the prisoner, and we can of course support that. Among other things: You tighten the screw against the possibility for gang members to be visited during a remand. Unfortunately, however, it is not just gang members who are actively involved in an ongoing violent conflict with another group of people. Why not actually tighten the screw so much that gang members in general should not be able to get visits from other gang members, whether there are ongoing conflicts or not. What exactly is it that is doing good for society that gang members should be able to receive visits from other criminal gang members? I do not imagine that such a visit is about avoiding crime or living a law-abiding life. It is also apparent from the draft law that the vast majority of prisoners' escapes have taken place from closed prisons and detentions in connection with transport or accompanied exits. As a psychiatric rapporteur, I remember the case in Slagelse, which is also mentioned in the proposal. Because this is not just something that affects the staff, but also other patients, mentally ill. And there I think we should do something, and fortunately we also have a proposal in the Health Committee, and we have also called both the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Health for a closed consultation and a technical examination of that proposal in the Health Committee to ensure that such a thing does not happen again. This proposal also calls for a review of the current conditions surrounding handcuffs. Are they too restrictive? And it may well be that they are and that a report does not necessarily have to be produced using handcuffs. After all, this is just another administrative burden for which employees need to spend very little time already. If necessary, it could be done in such a way that a report should only be drawn up if the inmate subsequently complains of injuries caused by the use of handcuffs, which is often due to the fact that the inmate has resisted while in handcuffs. But all in all: let us not turn up the reporting on the use of the means of power, which should instead be seen as an absolutely necessary means of transporting a prisoner safely. And I don't want reports written either, because the jailer used the harness in the car. Prison escapes must be stopped, and we would like to see much more strict stopping it in general. Handcuffs are good in cases where it makes sense. But, of course, all inmates with different types of exits cannot be required to wear handcuffs. But if they make use of the opportunity to run away, their future exits must be taken into account. And if they're going to have to leave, you have to make sure they don't run away. It could be using handcuffs as suggested here. But it could also be that there were enough staff in relation to exits, because if a single entry on exits with one entry on exits with one entry on exits with one entry on exits with one entry on exits with one entry on exits with one entry on exits with one entry on exits with one entry on exits with one entry on exits with one entry on exits with one entry on exits. staff run off, they usually let the prisoner run off simply because of the security perspective of one staff member accompanying the exit, and that is reasonable enough in that situation. But either more staff is needed or they have to be cut off from leaving. Because, of course, one should not be able to run away when society has determined that one's freedom has been taken from one. It is also proposed to introduce the possibility for an inmate to be handcuffed when staying outside the cell. That is fine, but perhaps it would be even better for those concerned in these cases to just stay in their cell. Basically, we read this proposal as an increased effort to ensure, on the one hand, that inmates and detainees do not run away and, on the other hand, to secure the staff and other inmates. This is all something that we can, of course, support and vote in favour of. Finally, it is proposed that the management of housing such as psychiatric wards, day-to-day institutions for children and young people placed in court should be able to draw a decision on e.g. an exit permit is returned if this exit is considered not to be reasonable, e.g. if the person concerned is affected by substances. It is excellent to put the responsibility closer to those who hold him or her in their care rather than that he or she is merely an administrative decision taken far away from him or her. So all in all, this is an excellent proposal that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126101047	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Strøjer-Schmide Strøder-Schmidt from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126101058	Thank you. Unfortunately, the rapporteur was not able to be here for himself today, but I will read her speech. We will never be free from prison escapes, because nowhere, including a prison, is completely escape-free, but that is why we can work to limit prison escapes. We have a duty to do so. There are more critical consultation responses to this bill than there are positive ones, and I would like to say that I am concerned about several elements of the proposal. First of all, I never think that a legal basis should be introduced to allow carte blanche to introduce new means of protection to the taste and pleasure of the authorities. We are dealing here with inmates who can be both evasive and very ill at one and the same time, and that is why, as a parliamentarian and politician, we must be concerned that we have a hand in dealing with means of power and means of protection, and discuss whether that is the way we should go. We think that is something that the Folketing must decide. Indeed, I fear that we are moving towards Americanized conditions, not least because the shortage of staff means that we are no longer able to have good human contact with the inmates, and then they are getting worse and worse. And it may be tempting to introduce all sorts of efficiency in this regard, but it must never be an excuse for a lack of hands that we go that way. I understand that visitor and letter checks can be introduced when you are under threat of escape, not least because we can see that some escapes are committed with the help of others and it is estimated that visitor and mail checks can prevent this. However, I would like to raise a flag, because we are using this opportunity enormously in Denmark in about 50%. of all incarcerations and it is very intrusive for the inmates' children. That is why I hope that the Minister will consider how we can secure the innocent victims... the children... in this. In relation to video meetings, I also hear a large number of calls for legal certainty. I must admit that I myself have pressed for more video in the administration of justice, and I think it is reasonable that we can use it when we have an inmate who is precisely under threat of escape. I take comfort in the fact that it is the court that can decide whether it should be an option. We already have the opportunity when it comes to extensions of time. On the other hand, we must keep an eye on whether the possibility is being overused, but I also have some confidence that the courts will act as bulwarks here, and I would suggest that an evaluation be made of how this regulation has worked out. Unfortunately, I believe that developments in criminal justice are going against the fact that we need handcuffs in relation to some of the inmates. While the Committee on Legal Affairs has been visiting prisons, we have seen that some of the prisoners have been so violent that they have had to be up to six officers to deal with them. It's probably come to stay, which is why I can understand the need. Again, I am concerned that it could become a slippery path to overspending it, especially when we are dealing with people who can be very ill. Danish Regions are calling for investigation sites in the Department of Criminal Welfare, and the Minister replies that they should be made in two places. I hope that they will be made with a set of rules, which is possible in the Psychiatry Act, because, as it is today, there are people in custody who have severe treatment-intensive sufferings that are not properly dealt with. We heard this in Enner Mark, and here they simply want an opportunity, as under the Psychology Act, because it allows more things to be put in place to help the inmates. It must also be a must for investigation sites, and we will be asking questions on this during committee reading. We are a little worried that the Minister is replying that they can be made without new legislation. As you have probably figured out, we in the SF are not super happy with all the elements of this proposal, and that means that we are either on a yellow or a red voice to this proposal. We recognise that some of the proposals are necessary, but at the same time we are insecure about the slippery slope that some of them may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126101431	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126101438	Thank you very much. As many here today, I am also standing here as a substitute, as Britt Baker has unfortunately become ill. So I'm reading a speech that I got delivered this morning. We need to take care of our prison officers. They are outnumbered, and they work hard at different times of day, night, weekends, Christmas and New Year's week and among inmates who do not always want them well and who are sometimes ready for violence. Giving the prison officers better working conditions is at the heart of the negotiations we are currently holding on the criminal justice economy. The legislative proposals we are discussing here today generally give criminal services a little better working conditions a very small step, but in the right direction. We are giving criminal services the opportunity to strengthen the letter and visitor control of biker gang members, the possibility of video interrogations is increased if the accused is assessed as evasive and criminal services are given better opportunities to use handcuffs and other means of security during transport and in the institutions where an inmate has behaved violently or like. Furthermore, the aim of the proposal is to allow the institution's management or a medical officer to revoke a decision on the exit of persons placed in psychiatric wards if it is considered that this is not justified. And we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126101607	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next one on the platform is therefore the Minister of Justice, who would like to come up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126101620	Thank you for the comments that have been made, and we should not complain that the parties choose to submit with competent rapporteurs other than those they bring with them on a daily basis. As a minister, you just have to be happy about that. It is true, as has been said, that the legislative proposal we have before us today actually stems from the action plan that was taken to deal with some of the derogations we have seen. Liselott Blixt mentioned it from the psychiatric hospital in Slagelse, who, if I may say so, was the individual who pushed for us to say that we must now have an action plan, and Liselott Blixt also pointed out what is right, so that some of the problem, at least with the inmates who are mentally ill, is that although we are good at providing security and so on, we are not dealing with it. On the other hand, the health services are very good at doing the treatment, but they do not have safety as the core competence, and this is an issue that we should have looked at. I know that there are also proposals in the field of health, and I understand what Liselott Blixt says, that we must also consult and talk about it, so it will be just great. But then we have had a few other escapes, which have also been very spectacular. I think most people remember Peter Madsen's escape from Herstedvester, and there's been an arrest warrant that escaped from Vestre Prison, but this isn't just about those spectacular cases. So, in the period from 2017 to 2019 it is estimated that there are 568 people charged with prison escape. So this is a problem that needs to be dealt with, and initiatives are then being taken here which should help us to ensure that it becomes more complex. This is, after all, about the possibility of preventing outside help from escaping from prison, and the video court meetings are about ensuring that those places where there is a risk of escape, that is, when someone is outside the prison, in other words during the transport to the prison or other, can counter it if you can use video court meetings more. Then there was the handcuff issue that raises another interesting issue. It was also mentioned by one or more of the rapporteurs, namely that over the last few years we have been kind enough to make relatively many detailed regulations on what is going to happen in criminal justice, and one of the steps that we have to take now is to move in the opposite direction. This is one of the things we are going to talk about and talk about in the context of the negotiations on the new agreement on criminal justice, namely to set staff free, so that you can better assess when it is appropriate to use handcuffs and not build a lot of bureaucracy on top of it. There must also be other elements, but all in all I must certainly thank you for the comments that have been made and for the broad support for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126101945	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126101958	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126102013	Thank you. Our legal rapporteur is still prevented from being here, so I am also a substitute for the proposal we are now considering. It is not the worst proposal to be a substitute, because it is a proposal that we welcome in the Social Democratic Party. And, as the title states, it includes strengthened action against sexual abuse against children and strengthened advice to victims of sexual abuse. In relation to the first part, the reinforced action against crimes against children, it is, after all, some of the most serious crimes, terrible forms of crime that we have. That's why in the spring the government came up with the play-out to be against adults who violate children's rights, where today's bill implements some of the initiatives that are in play. In relation to the second part of the bill, the enhanced advice, this part comes on the basis of an agreement between the government, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. It is an agreement that victims in cases of sexual abuse should have better support and guidance through the judicial system. It is also an agreement that we very much appreciate. I shall briefly delve into the individual parts of the proposal. First of all, the bill contains a proposal to amend section 216 of the Criminal Code. 2, so that from now on per year. The definition will be rape in a situation where the victim is under 15 years of age and the perpetrator is 22 years old. So it should not be the case that a child under the age of 15 can give a much older person consent to sexual intercourse. Secondly, the bill contains a penalty for so-called sexual abuse other than sexual intercourse against children. This is a 50% increase in the penalty, and that is only fair in view of the crime. Thirdly, the draft law provides for a new approach: a ban on so-called child sex dolls. The word in itself is bizarre. Children should not be sexualised, and here we are talking about real-life dolls of children who are produced and sold to adults for a sexual purpose. Fourthly, the bill allows the courts to impose an exit ban on persons convicted of sexual assault on children. The exit ban is proposed to be supplemented by the inclusion by the police of the sentenced person's passport. In this way, it can be ensured that a person convicted of sexual abuse does not go abroad and commit new sexual abuse there. Fifthly, the draft law contains rules which will allow the police to conduct secret searches in cases of possession and dissemination of sexual assault material against children. According to the police, this could constitute a significant investigation step in paedophilia cases where there may be hidden backers. In addition to these important proposals aimed at strengthening the fight against sexual abuse against children, the draft law also contains a very important part: strengthened advice for victims of sexual abuse. As part of the 2021 Finance Act, the Government, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative agreed that victims of sexual abuse should have better support and guidance through the judicial system. The parties then concluded an agreement on inter alia: to extend the assistance attorney's scheme. The parts requiring amendment of the law are implemented by this bill. The changes will mean that, as a victim, you will also be able to speak to your aid attorney before possible notification to the police and after a case is closed in court. It should help the victim to have a better experience in the judicial system and ultimately get the help and support he or she needs. To conclude, I would like to stress once again how important we in the Social Democratic Party think the initiatives in this bill are. Each contains important elements. It is absolutely essential that we do what we can to prevent child abuse. And when the damage happens, unfortunately, it is also crucial that we take proper care of the victims. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126102401	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then the next speaker is Mrs Anne Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126102417	Thank you for the floor. Today, we are dealing first with a draft law on the amendment of the criminal and procedural law, and this is a proposal which, overall, aims to strengthen the fight against sexual abuse, including the rape of children. In the Left, we believe that rape and sexual abuse are in general some of the most serious crimes against the individual and a violation of the individual's freedom and right to control its own body. Sexual abuse and rape can have long-lasting and severe negative consequences for the victims, both physically and psychologically, especially in the case of children. I think we can all agree on this in this Chamber, and I believe that all 179 Members have the same objective: to stop the abuse of children to the extent possible. What we can discuss is what is the best means of getting to that situation, or at least as close as possible. Specifically, the bill implements five initiatives on sexual abuse of children from the government's initiative • Been against adults who violate children • As well as actions to support victims agreed by the parties to the agreement in connection with the 2021 Finance Act. To make the Left's position on each component of this bill quite clear, I will briefly review them one by one. First of all, the bill aims to amend the penal code, so intercourse with a child under 15 years of age per year. definition is a rape if the rapist is 22 years old. We in the Left fully support this, because in the Left we fully agree that a child under the age of 15 is unable to consent to sexual intercourse with a significantly older adult. Secondly, the penalty will be increased by 50%. for sexual abuse other than rape against children. In the Left, we believe that sexual abuse other than rape can be almost as traumatizing and devastating for a child as a rape, and that is why we are fully in line with the fact that the punishment is being tightened up. Thirdly, with this bill, the police will have the opportunity to conduct secret searches in matters of possession and dissemination of material involving sexual assaults on children. We need to put an end to the paedophile networks. There is no doubt that everything must be done and that we must go as far as we possibly can to combat this totally destructive phenomenon. A secret search will give the police a decisive advantage against the often quite IT-savvy criminals and thus uncover the typically extensive criminal networks that may lie behind it. It will be a tool for the police that they do not have today, and we support that. Fourthly, the draft law also proposes that sex dolls who look like children should be made illegal. In the favor of this proposal, a view that bans may put paedophiles on other thoughts, for if they cannot get near a child sex doll, they may not think in those thoughts. Against the proposal, it would be better for a pedophile to react to a doll rather than a child. What's right, and what's wrong with this? I might as well be 100% honest and say that I cannot give the answer to that. There are various experts who speak out in this area, and they themselves seem to be quite in doubt. Children's Terms and Children's Council are against before there is more clear knowledge about it. However, the Left chooses to go into it, but we also expect the Minister to follow up on the impact as proposed by the Children's Conditions, so that we make sure that the ban also has the desired effect. Fifthly, it is also proposed that the courts should be given the opportunity to impose an exit ban on persons convicted of sexual abuse against children. Sixthly, the exit ban is also proposed to be supplemented by the inclusion of the passport by the police. In relation to this action, the Left is unsolved. We hear from the Institute for Human Rights and from the Council of Lawyers that the measure is seen as very intrusive, and it appears from the hearing answers that it may not have been fully thought out. We will be asking questions during the committee procedure, among other things. the type of situations in which it will affect and how the proportionality assessment will be carried out in practice. Seventhly, the bill finally proposes that injured persons in cases of sexual abuse may receive free assistance from a lawyer prior to possible reporting of offences to the police and after the end of the trial on the account of the State. In the Left, we do not believe that legal advice should be given until a complaint has been made. It is further apparent from a number of consultation contributions that there may be challenges associated with potential victims' contact with lawyers, e.g. in relation to influencing the victim's memory. That is why we hope that we will be able to change this in committee, otherwise there will be an amendment from the Left on that part. To sum up, we in the Left agree that the existing legal situation does not provide adequate protection for children who are victims of rape and other sexual abuse, and that is why we can support the strengthening of legislation. However, we are awaiting the committee's work on criminalising sex dolls similar to children, the proportionality of the possibility of including the defendants' passports and legal advice before a charge has taken place. With that I would just like to thank you for the floor and add that the Left is looking forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126102903	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126102912	I would like to start by thanking the government for once again taking up some of the Danish People's Party's resolutions and making them a legislative proposal. That is the way it should be: we come up with the good proposals and the government translates them into action. That's the distribution of power. This L 78, which we are discussing today, contains basic elements from the Danish People's Party's B60 from 2019 which are about preventing pedophiles from travelling out into the world and continuing to commit abuse. It is also in our proposal B 57 from 2020 that we are talking about a ban on sex dolls. So from this perspective, we are pleased that the government is implementing the Danish People's Party's policy, because we must do everything we can through legislation to stop child abuse. In addition, the draft law contains something about searches, proposals for unpaid advice for victims and a tightening up of section 216. 2, and an increased penalty for assault. This is all something we can support. However, we think that something absolutely essential is missing from this proposal, and it is the treatment of those who commit these sexual assaults. I would say that, as the health rapporteur, I also lack something about how we can prevent a paedophile from committing abuse. In the health pool we co-created with the previous government, the Danish People's Party had the money set aside to ensure anonymous counselling for paedophiles, and we also wanted to be able to obtain advice anonymously. This has not been implemented in the current government, and it may then come later. But for me, it is also about some who have these thoughts and who do not want to commit abuse, but need to talk to someone who knows about it without being stamped in their health records as some who have paedophile thoughts. Because we all know how much it turns in us when we hear about child abuse. We would have liked there to be an anonymous visit to the doctor or to a sexological clinic and get help, but it has not been wanted to implement it in the government. So I'm really sorry. But fortunately, some of the money went to counseling, which can advise people about these things. At the same time, we also want to be treated. We proposed in B 264 that when you have endured your punishment and if you still have the trends, there should be real treatment. We need to think not only about punishing paedophiles more and in a better way, but also about treatment and prevention, which can form part of the judgment. Here we do not find that conditions on terms that could be treatment are enough in relation to sexual abuse. We must be able to impose unconditional sentences involving compulsory treatment, so that the penalties are balanced. One must be imprisoned when one has been abused, precisely as punishment and to stop the abuses, and then one must be forced to be treated during atonement. But we can support L 78 and hope that the government will take on one of our other proposals so that we can also get the treatment of paedophiles started. And as a health rapporteur, I would also like to suggest that advice can be given as anonymously as possible before any abuse is committed. If we have just prevented one attack, it has had its effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126103249	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126103256	Thank you. Unfortunately, the SF rapporteur has no opportunity to be here today. That's why I'm going to read her speech. Sexual abuse of children is one of the most serious and appalling crimes we are aware of at all, and with the bill we are discussing here today, we are strengthening the fight against sexual abuse against children by means of a series of concrete measures and ensuring that those who commit these abuses are punished considerably more severely than is the case today. In future, the bill will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. the definition is about rape in a situation where the injured are under 15 years of age and the perpetrator is over 22 years of age. This approach is based on a very serious case from Dianalund, where a 13-year-old girl for 5 months was subjected to serious sexual abuse by her sports teacher. The case showed that the current rules are completely inadequate and therefore it is good that we are now changing them. Because, of course, a 13 - year - old child cannot be held responsible for having to resign to an adult, which is why in some cases rape must always be involved. At the same time, it is proposed to increase the penalty for sexual abuse other than sexual intercourse against children by 50%. in relation to the penalty previously imposed by the courts for such infringements. We fully support this in the SF. The bill here will give the victims of sexual abuse a better starting point in the meeting with the judicial system and gives the right to receive unpaid assistance from a lawyer prior to reporting the assault to the police and after the case is closed. When you have been raped, you are extremely vulnerable, and that is why it is crucial to have an aid lawyer who can help the victim. We also know that when you have an aid lawyer, it leads more often to judgment. In SF we are therefore happy with this action. We can support the proposal and look forward to further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126103439	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126103445	Thank you very much, sir. President. Yes, funny enough, my colleague Britt Baker is still ill, so I am taking this matter for her too, and thank you very much for the floor. A great deal has already been said about the content of the proposal by the previous rapporteurs. So little out of respect for the fact that it is Friday, I will refrain from repeating all the many good elements contained in this proposal. So thank you so much. After all, the aim of the bill is to strengthen the fight against sexual abuse against children and to strengthen counselling for victims of sexual abuse. We support that in the Conservative People's Party. We are always on the side of the victims and we think it is a good idea to take the passport from paedophiles so that they cannot go abroad and continue their atrocities. We support the punishment of sexual intercourse with children. The assault on children of one of the most disgusting crimes giving the child scars for life, and therefore must be punished harshly. We also believe that it is absolutely appropriate for victims of sexual abuse to have the right to receive unpaid assistance from a lawyer prior to a possible notification of the assault to the police and after the end of the proceedings or proceedings. This is a very good proposal, which we in the Conservatives would like to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126103607	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Next in the series of speeches is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126103616	Thank you for your comments and for your support for the bill, which is, of course, aimed at preventing sexual abuse against children and taking care of those who have been subjected to abuse. It is proposed that the law should enter into force on 1 March next year. Now it needs to be dealt with as it should, but let me just briefly review the elements that there are and discuss some of the issues that were raised • not that they were so many questions. There is the change in section 216 of the Penal Code, which means that in the future there will be an increase in the number of judges. The definition will be a rape if the injured person is under 15 years of age and the perpetrator is over 22 years of age. You might ask: would you say, if you asked people on the street, that this is a rape? We can discuss that, but here we are taking and saying from in here: we want to show that we socially distance ourselves from it so that we put it into the rape clause and thus call it rape forward-looking. Then there is this increase in the penalty for sexual abuse other than sexual intercourse against children. Once again, there is a sign that this is something that we, as a society, distance ourselves from; we do not want it. Then it was mentioned, in connection with the introduction of a ban on sex dolls, which appears as children, that the effect of such a ban is not fully elucidated, so it should not be prohibited. Oh, that's not how it works. These are dolls that are made so they typically look like little girls. You can even get them with body heat, with body openings, some can even say complaining sounds, etc., so that you can attack them. Are we going to say here that, because we cannot prove that it is harmful, we want such products to be traded in Denmark? No, actually, I don't think so. We, the government, the Social Democratic Party, think that we should actually say here: we simply do not want that in our country. I don't want this to happen here. It's not supposed to happen here. We don't want it. We therefore believe that this ban must be implemented, even if there is some doubt as to its impact. It is not the case that they say: we know that it has a high therapeutic value or other, and therefore there may be a need. No, there are doubts, and I wonder if we should allow the doubt to benefit the decency of this case too. Then there is the question of the possibility that the courts may issue a ban on leaving the country to persons convicted of sexual abuse. After all, it is not about the possibility of going to South-East Asia or elsewhere to commit this type of abuse, and there is a risk here. Following on from this, this is the inclusion of the passport, because, in order to effect it, of course, it will have to take the passport away from people, so that the exit ban can actually be enforced. In relation to this secret search, I would say that one must always be careful with secret searches, but if we are to be able to get into some of these paedophile networks, where one is capable of IT security and where one is capable of protecting one's errors, then there is a need for us to give the police the extraordinary opportunity to carry out secret searches. We need to ensure that we provide the police with the tools needed to deal with this. Then there was one element that I also heard there was support for, namely this with free assistance from a lawyer prior to possible police reporting in cases of sexual abuse. Today it is the case that an aid lawyer is appointed when the assault has been reported to the police. We think it is fair enough to take the victim's hand and say: even before you come to the police, you may have the right to a lawyer to turn the case against him. What's it stand on? Well, we've had some situations where some of those who have made reviews have felt they're coming into a world, i.e. with police reports, etc. So it's good to have an aid lawyer with you. I would say that a lot is being done by the police in these years to ensure that they understand that those who come and have been subjected to these demeaning sexual abuse are not just those we are talking about now, but also those who have been raped and others have various traumas, and so the police understand the sense of guilt and shame that one can bear, etc. It is to ensure that the treatment is as good as possible. But this is just another element where we say: let's go all the way to take care of those who have been subjected to this type of abuse. Then there was just one more element. It is rather annoying that the handling of the matter went so quickly, because then I could not get an answer from my excellent officials in relation to the element raised by Mrs Liselott Blixt, namely the one dealing with those who commit abuse and the anonymous advice. What I couldn't get an answer to was that, as I remember it, we have actually carried out in some package in some context that there has to be an opportunity for this anonymous advice. I guess I'll have to follow up on that in the handling of the case. It's just to say that it's not something that's been abandoned. In my best opinion, it is in the process of implementation, but I must follow up on that. All in all, thank you for your comments. I think this is a proposal that we, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, can be very happy to be here with today, because it will help some of those who are most at risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104229	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anne Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104233	Thank you. This concerns the point of pre-notification legal advice. It is true that the whole purpose of a notification is that it should lead to a charge and a penalty for the guilty person, but it is largely apparent from the hearing answers that have come that it will have a negative effect on the police's ability to investigate. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104257	After all, it is an aid lawyer who is made available to the person who has been violated. So it is an aid lawyer who must ensure the best possible speed of the proceedings in the system, which should therefore lead to justice being done. That is the basic idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104319	Is there any further comment? No. Then we'll thank the Minister for Justice. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104336	The debate is open. First of all, I welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104351	Thank you for that, President. With the motion for a resolution, the proposers wish by law to oblige the government to start the necessary work so that Denmark has a national strategy against loneliness. Loneliness is too big a problem in Denmark and it is a growing problem that we as a society have to deal with. Approx. 380,000 Danes feel very lonely, and this can have major consequences for the individual's quality of life, health and well-being. Loneliness transcends society as a whole, and so must the solutions. This is a problem we do not solve with a fast law or a pool here from Christiansborg, but by close cooperation between organisations, municipalities and others. A national loneliness strategy can help to establish that the fight against loneliness is a clearly common matter; removing the guilt and shame of many of the people who are struggling with loneliness; the taboo that is. And we have to make it clear that this is something we have to solve together. Therefore, the government also agrees with the need for a national solitude strategy. It is this government's clear ambition that fewer people should be lonely. For this reason, the government already announced, in the context of its financial bill, that the government will set up to prioritise funds for a national loneliness strategy. The negotiations on the reserve have just been completed and it has been decided to allocate 25.5 million. kr. to a national solitude partnership to collect knowledge and facilitate national action against loneliness across sectors. We were broadly agreed on this, almost all the parties in this Chamber. Against this background, the partnership shall draw up a national solitude strategy and its action plan by the end of 2022. Funds have also been allocated for the period 2023-2025, where the many good activities undertaken can be continued and disseminated. The work on the solitude strategy will be based on the recommendations made by an impressive number of organisations. I was actually thinking that I should bring their publication up here and stand and show it. It is a good thing that the radical rapporteur has it down there, because mine is over there in the office, but it's nicely cute and used, because I have both read it and carried it around when I've been on trips around the country. In addition to that, we have also allocated 31.5 million with the reserve agreement. kr. to local partnerships aimed at combating loneliness. I think we have an open window right now on top of the corona. We have all tasted a bit of loneliness during the decommissioning and repatriations, and I think we have a different direct way of talking to each other about it. So the hard one, it is, to get over the taboo and the shame associated with loneliness at all, I think we are somewhere else in relation to as a society right now. That is why I am so pleased that we so broadly agreed to allocate 31.5 million. kr. to local partnerships that can start fighting loneliness right now. In addition, we have set aside 16.1 million with the reserve. kr. to counteract loneliness and loss of function, especially among older men. It's one of the target groups that we know can fight a lot with what you've become alone, suddenly your life changes basically and there may be something in the classic male role that makes it a little extra difficult for this group to reach out and ask for help when it's loneliness that prints. So it is so good that we could also agree so widely to allocate money to it. In this way, with the reserve agreement we entered into last Friday, we have set aside no less than 73.1 million. kr. to fight loneliness. I am very pleased and very grateful for that and I think it will make a huge difference. So the government fully agrees with the need for a national solitude strategy. We cannot support the resolution here because we have already taken the initiative to initiate work on a national solitude strategy, and we have already reached an agreement on the financing of this and even a good financing of the effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104738	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104740	Thank you. I also think that we have good reason to join forces, collectively, to pat ourselves on the shoulder in relation to the funds that were put off in the reserve. It is not a secret that the government had played out with 10 million. I therefore welcome the fact that, at least in economic terms, economic priorities were considerably increased, among other things. Because the Left pushed. However, when I want to ask the Minister something, it is because many of the initiatives contained in the SSA document, or the presentation from the rate reserve, are such initiatives which, in one way or another, are based on something existing, and that may be very good. But I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister not think that we need to set concrete targets for how to reduce loneliness? And does the Minister not think that there is a need for us to have research into how the ships we are now putting together together work and whether they have an effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104847	Thank you for that, President. Let's not spend a lot of time on that with who said what, when, and what was in the paper. At any rate, I can see that there were more than 10 million. kr. in the proposal made by the government to the reserve, which was about loneliness, because we also have the partnerships and efforts in relation to the elderly. But should we not just join together in welcoming the fact that we have reached an agreement that is so ambitious when it comes to loneliness? At any rate, I also see that the many actors who have done a great deal of work, and indeed those who have made concrete recommendations under the Corona partnerships, are happy about this. Part of the task of the national solitude strategy is, of course, to have a knowledge-gathering function, and without being a minister of the area, I know that loneliness is also one of the things mentioned in the also very broad and also billions of agreements entered into on the research reserve. So it's also an area we're going to know about. However, it is true that we have not used the limited reserve resources, that is to say funds for social interventions too risky, to fund PhD or research projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104950	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126104951	But if the government is so open to specific objectives and if the government is open to allocating funds for research against loneliness, then I simply do not understand why it cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which is here. Because it's like what's at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105007	Well, that's the last thing I just answered. In fact, I think that, when we have the limited resources we have in the social reserve, it is not fair to the vulnerable citizens for whom that money is intended if we start to finance research here to a greater extent. And that is why I am pleased that loneliness is part of the great agreement on the research reserve, that is to say the billions in research. I think that's the right way to go. At least that's the way the government thinks you should go. And with regard to the issue of setting specific objectives, I would say that governments have done so widely in the social field over time, and we can only say that it is certainly not the setting of targets that makes a difference in themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105043	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments in this case. The next speaker is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105053	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Left for inviting us to a small debate on loneliness. We are faced with a major social problem, and we fully recognise this: 380,000 Danes over 16 years of age feel very lonely, and that is a lot of people. They are people who do not experience social relationships, and they are young people, they are middle-aged people, they are older people.So loneliness has no age at all. For some, a trip down to the grocery store may be the daily contact they have with other people, others may have many contacts and yet feel lonely. Loneliness is a feeling, and it is not something one can necessarily put on a formula. Loneliness must be something we must talk about together, and loneliness is also something we must resolve together. There are many different reasons why people are lonely, and therefore, of course, there is not just one solution to solve the problem of loneliness, and it is not a task that we can just fix here at Christiansborg. However, we can do everything we can to support the setting of the framework for the task to be undertaken. Because civil society has a huge role to play here. It is in civil society that we meet each other and form strong ties. It is through the housing association, it is through the sports club, it is through voluntary social organisations: This is where we have shared experiences and can become part of a strongly binding community. That is why I, like the Minister, am very, very pleased that last week we landed the SSA agreement, because here all the parties of the Danish Parliament have almost just agreed to draw up a national strategy against loneliness. In this context, a national loneliness partnership must be set up, including: to initiate a national conversation about loneliness through popular activities. It shall collect knowledge and tools and interventions that prevent, detect and remedy loneliness. In addition to the national loneliness strategy, as the Minister rightly said, the SSA reserve also contains a pool to counteract the loneliness and disability of older citizens, especially older men. Civil society and associations can seek the pool to create activities and support social relations. In total, the SSA reserve increases its efforts against loneliness by well over 40 million. kr. over the next four years. So thank you to the parties involved in the agreement. Are we then in line with loneliness and done fighting it? No, we certainly aren't. Because, as I said, this is not something we can fix here alone by means of funds. It is also about what action is being taken, and now it is so exciting which recommendations come from the partnership. Then, of course, more bets will have to be made and they will of course have to play with the current ones in a sensible way. I find it rather difficult to see how the resolution works with the agreement we reached last week and with the action plan that we have already agreed on. So, although we very much agree that loneliness is a major problem that we must solve together, we cannot support the proposals of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105410	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105414	Thank you. If it was not because I had just heard the end of the rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur sounded almost as complacent as the minister. I would like to acknowledge, as I said before, that I think it is a very good thing and it is a very good and good first step that we have taken in the common priority we have made in the pool reserve. I think that's good. I am also pleased that the rapporteur says that we are not in the end. It sounded a bit like the Minister, as if the Minister at least thought that with the priorities that have been set now, we were in the finish line. But I am glad to hear that the Socialists do not believe that we are at least not in the end. I am also pleased that the Socialist rapporteur says that this is about the effort. What, then, are the efforts that the Socialists think are particularly important here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105504	Thank you. Now I certainly did not hear the Minister say that we are just in the finish line. On the contrary, I heard the Minister say that action must be taken right now to find out which way we can go. It is not a goal to set stakes in motion, and loneliness is moving. The people who are lonely now are not the same people who are lonely in a sea year necessarily. So it's not something we just fix and get over with. There will always be loneliness in our society. What is important is that we develop tools to combat it and that we have a common language about it and that it is not taboo. After all, the Minister has a very good point: Corona has opened a door now, so it has become legal to talk about it, and we have all experienced loneliness at some point during corona, because we have not been able to see our loved ones. And that is as tangible as anything can be, and that is what we must tackle now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105601	Here you go, Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105602	I fully agree that corona has created an open window which makes it easier to talk about loneliness and perhaps even more legitimate to stand by being lonely. I don't think anyone disagrees with that. Now I just asked what kind of efforts the Socialists consider to be particularly important. I understand that talking about loneliness is particularly important. I would like to ask: how do the Socialists want to make sure, and how do they know that the efforts, the initiatives that now, the resources we have set aside, are being set in motion, actually have an effect and that there will be fewer loneliness in five years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105644	Thank you. If the rapporteur has read the SSA agreement, the rapporteur will also know that this is actually one of the things we are following up with these partners who are now part of having to solve the task of finding out what is working. We cannot sit here and it would be completely irresponsible to say in advance what we are going to decide, we must make efforts when we do not yet know the results of the great work being undertaken. So, of course, we're looking forward to getting smarter all of us. And we also know that the municipalities are already working with loneliness and have had some good experiences.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105718	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126105744	Thank you very much for the floor. I've been pulled in Detector twice because I said loneliness kills more people than smoking does, and the second time because I said it was as dangerous as smoking. So this time I would like to say that there are very different documentations of how dangerous it is, and there are some who say that it is more dangerous than smoking. But, as I said, this can be something that we in the Danish People's Party have been working on for a very long time, and that is why we have also regularly set aside money, together with the Minister, for initiatives in the area of the elderly. And we have also just agreed to release money from the reserve, as the Minister has so well explained. So I think we've got a nice deal on this. But I also believe that with this work we need to make sure that we look all the way around. For of course, there are many who feel lonely, but that does not mean that just because you sit alone at home or opt out of company, you are lonely. We are some who prefer to be alone rather than to be with others. It is therefore important not only to measure whether you live alone or opt out of social communities. Nor is it a matter of simply bringing someone into social communities, for even with people some people feel lonely. It is a matter of being involved, and there may be some who have challenges that can be either socially or mentally, or that you have a disability. One can try to imagine that as hearing impaired one sits with some others and simply cannot understand what is being said and that there is unrest and noise. Then you feel really lonely in a company and would actually rather sit at home watching TV or reading a good book. We know from research that there are several diseases associated with feeling lonely, and we also know that there is a high mortality rate in men living alone, and therefore it is very good that attention is being focused on men. The Corona crisis has also shown that children and young people felt mentally ill because they were very left to themselves. That is why it is also important to have a strategy in this area, and that is why I am very pleased that this money was dropped and that knowledge is collected which can make us all more aware of what we should do. I know some of these lonely people myself, and that's why every two years I spend Christmas Eve with them. And it hurts the years when I spend Christmas with my family and not with them, because then they have nowhere to be. As one of the people I've had Christmas Eve with several times, he wants a foster family, even though he is now up in the years and is a pensioner. But he grew up in several orphanages and has no family and therefore does not have anyone to celebrate holidays with or take a trip out in the blue with or drink a cup of coffee with things you do when you have a network or a family. He has once every two years when he feels like he's in a family, and that's when he spends Christmas Eve with me. It would be great if you could create a network, and I hope that you will also look at this network where families who would like to be there for others could adopt an adult. But I look forward to the work that has now been started, and that is why I believe that this proposal will kick in an open door. Compared to putting an extra 10 million. kr. I also think that we should see what this money can do and what cooperation and knowledge we get in this area. Then we can always take it up later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110144	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110149	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for a very passionate speech. I hope it doesn't result in a trip to Detector, because that would really be a shame. The rapporteur is right, of course, that once we deal with the resolution today, it will kick in an open door. I would have liked us to have dealt with this resolution before, because we have been overtaken in a way by another reality. I just want to say that the Minister has not had the opportunity to come to the Chamber before. So I would have liked us to have dealt with this a long time before. But thank you for a passionate speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110230	Thank you very much. I think it's nice to have this conversation too. When we have negotiations, it happens behind closed doors, and it is not always that it comes out to the people, and therefore it is very nice. And thank you for making the proposal so that we can at least have this talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110244	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110259	Thank you. Unfortunately, the SF rapporteur has no opportunity to be here today. That's why I'm going to read her speech. In SF we think it is incredibly important to have a national strategy against loneliness. Unfortunately, loneliness is a big part of everyday life for too many people, and we must recognise that it is a social challenge that goes across age groups, sectors and disciplines. Political action is needed because it has major consequences for personal, mental well-being and can at the same time lead to a number of social costs. That is why loneliness has also been a priority in the negotiations on the social reserve. There are 24 million set aside for this purpose. kr. in the period 2022-2025 to a national solitude strategy. As part of this, a national loneliness partnership is also part of a process to collect knowledge and support national efforts to combat loneliness across sectors. In addition, money has been set aside for, inter alia, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). launch an initiative to develop and test efforts to counteract the loneliness of older citizens. Finally, loneliness is also highlighted as part of the civil society strategy. Here you will work to find local solutions that will create inclusive communities and thereby, among other things, create local solutions. reduce loneliness. Loneliness is undoubtedly a major problem which must be taken seriously by political action, and we support that in the SF. To set qualified concrete and clear goals to reduce loneliness in Denmark, so that we set a clear direction for how we will improve the mental well-being of the Danes, will therefore be very positive. However, we also think that a great many good initiatives have already been adopted, so we wonder what the main differences are with the desired national loneliness strategy in the resolution and the national loneliness strategy, which has been dealt with and allocated money to in the social reserve. Of course, new and more initiatives may be needed on an ongoing basis, because this is a major social problem, and we would like to take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110445	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110448	Thank you. Perhaps it might be interpreted rather unfair to ask questions to a rapporteur other than the one who is actually the rapporteur on the draft law, but I am still doing so. Now the rapporteur mentioned the resources set aside in the reserve, and there is, of course, no provision in those funds, as it were, for us to set ourselves concrete targets or to have a national objective. After all, the rapporteur himself mentioned that this could be a very good idea. What then makes SF say, on the one hand, that it would be super good to have clear national targets and, on the other hand, saying: No, we cannot support a resolution that has a desire for national objectives? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110537	Now, as I said, I am not the rapporteur, and I do not know whether the rapporteur has spoken so directly that we do not support it, but we probably do not. However, I am saying that we are in favour of clear targets, but it is enough because it weighs more heavily that we already believe that we should see what is happening in relation to the money we have now set aside. And then we will have to see if further initiatives are needed afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110609	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Christina Thorholm from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110622	Thank you. Loneliness is a major problem. It was therefore very gratifying that the reserve could address the problem and allocate another 23 million. kr. We have listened to the great inspirational paper from more than 70 organisations that have come together to say that we must now lift this. It was important to us because 380,000 live with severe loneliness. It changes your behavior when you live with loneliness, so that you do not just become part of a community, because it simply does something about your social patterns. This costs years of life, as one of the other rapporteurs also said, and this is proven, and therefore it is a problem similar to the other lifestyle diseases that we have to deal with. But it is a question of whether we should only talk about loneliness, for who would feel comfortable saying that they are lonely? When we invite you to solitude events, there aren't many. 'Cause I'm a social person, and I don't want to appear like such a person. So I think we need to talk about this in different ways. It is fantastic to have a solitude strategy, but I think that if we are to achieve as many as possible, it is important to talk about being part of a community. We are not in the finish line, we know that mental well-being and loneliness are filling up more and more in our society, and it is paradoxical when we have such a great awareness of it. The health profiles, which are created in the regions every year, also reveal the problem, and municipal initiatives are being taken to focus on this. But, as I have said, we have taken a national responsibility in relation to this loneliness strategy, which the Minister so thoroughly explained, and we look forward to seeing the benefits of it. There will also be a plan of action, but, as others say, we are not in the end. We would like to continue the work because it is so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110844	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126110905	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Left and to Mrs Jane Heitmann for raising this important debate. Because we must minimise loneliness, both among young people and adults and older people. The aim must simply be that no one feels lonely and outside social communities. We know that there are a great many associations, whether there are sports clubs, scouting movements, public education, museum associations, readers' associations, social associations, etc., that can carry out much of this task, and we attach great importance and value to this in the Conservative People's Party and thus want to support a greater spread of the community life. Then we also know that there are associations and organisations which aim directly to minimise loneliness and to create social communities which can help to remedy this problem. It's supposed to be my word. We would like to support it and look forward to some good proposals being put on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126111020	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126111042	First of all, I would like to sign for and thank you for the many fine remarks. And what I can hear, of course, is that there is in fact overall agreement in the Parliamentary Assembly on the intentions behind the resolution here, namely a national strategy against loneliness. And sometimes one can say that one can be lucky to be overtaken by reality, namely the good initiatives that we have launched with the funds from the rate pool. So I'd like to sign for that and thank you for that. But let me start somewhere else. You wanna go downstairs and eat? You wanna go to the gym? Why don't we do something nice on Saturday? These are all issues that are quite natural to most of us. But for a lot of people it is bad, not natural and everyday issues, unfortunately. Too many Danes are involuntarily alone, and many are truly lonely. In other words, many find that the calendar is empty, that the phone does not ring, that the text is never buzzing, and that it is quite quiet in the living room. A study from 2017 shows that 380,000 Danes feel very lonely and that 55,000 of them are 65 years old or older. I think that's a lot of people, and it makes me immensely sad. But loneliness is not just a phenomenon that affects our elderly, because among the 380,000 Danes who feel very lonely, there are actually 125,000 between 15 and 29 years of age. And with the isolation of the corona crisis, yes, my guess is that the violent numbers have not diminished, rather, on the contrary. Loneliness can affect anyone, regardless of age and social status, and we in the Left want a break with the sad numbers. We want to reverse the negative, downward spiral that loneliness is. We want a fight with loneliness, so we're gonna get rid of it. Because no one deserves to be involuntarily alone. Many, many more must be part of a binding community. We know that loneliness has great personal but also health costs. According to the Elders, figures from the Danish Health Authority indicate that loneliness costs society 8 billion. kr. annual in the form of increased sickness absenteeism, increased unemployment and increased hospital fees. There are therefore many good reasons for action. The Left raised the problem of loneliness in the debate on the latest reserve, because it is a common political task to create a new framework, to set a new course and to create real action. I welcome the government's 10 million-dollar proposal. kr. was lifted to this about 25 million. kr., as the Minister mentioned, and I am pleased that we also had funds allocated to strengthen suicide prevention and a pool to counter the loneliness of the elderly. This is all pointing in the right direction, but we are not in the right direction. In England, loneliness has been recognised as a social and public health challenge, and the root of the nettle has been tackled to such an extent. Back in 2018, England developed a comprehensive national strategy against loneliness, which has since been followed by both Scotland and Wales. And if we look north, Norway has also created a solitude strategy. And in Japan the problem has also been recognized, and even a Minister of Loneliness has been appointed. So there are many good international experiences that we can be inspired by. And it is now our turn to address the challenges of loneliness for children, young people and the elderly. That the Left wants a national strategy against loneliness, we have not concealed a strategy in which we set qualified, concrete and clear targets for how to overcome loneliness. And I also listen to both the Elders Case and the Danish Red Cross supporting specific goals. For a very good preparatory work has already been done at home, which we can be inspired by, among other things. The paper here. The Red Cross and the Elders Case has among other things. with the publication together on loneliness, of which a large number of organisations are co-signators, contributed with a very strong inspirational presentation. Back in 2018, the VLAK government took a number of initiatives against loneliness among the elderly, and this was lifted by an appropriation of 400 million. kr. on the Finance Act in 2019. We must then build on these initiatives with an overall strategy: not only a strategy that builds on existing partnerships, but a strategy where we also prioritise funding for research at national level so that we can measure the effects of our joint efforts. I am in favour, as I mentioned earlier, of the fact that the current rate reserve has obtained part of the motion for a resolution. However, we still have to set ourselves concrete targets for reducing loneliness, as well as a clear research priority, so that we can see which initiatives actually have an effect. I would have hoped for this in the Parliament's support for the rapporteur's speeches, but I still very much welcome the fact that virtually all parties have supported the intentions of a national solitude strategy. There is mutual joy and I agree with that joy that we have also jointly set aside funds. I would have liked to have seen and it is no secret that we had also set ourselves some very concrete goals, so we could say, as with the long light, that somewhere out there in the future there is no lonely in Denmark. I would have liked to have seen that. I would also have liked there to have been support in this Chamber for research funding. I don't hear there is either, but I have also noted that the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly mentioned that there are opportunities in the research reserve. However, I would have liked part of a national strategy to include research funding as well. However, it may come, and perhaps especially if there is a change of government after the next election. At least there is an open field to play on. I would like to thank my colleagues for very fine rapporteur speeches.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126111736	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. And since it is not, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Health. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126111754	The debate is open and we will start with the working Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126111832	Thank you for the floor to the President, and it is true that this is a citizen's proposal that we are going to be discussing today. The purpose of the proposal is, according to the authors, to prevent people from being kept in pointless stages of clarification, which is why I would also like to start by stressing that the government fully agrees with the intention of the proposal, because of course it is not intended for citizens to be left to themselves or to be kept going without direction or content year after year. No man is served with that, and that is not what the rules are laying down today. However, I also agree that we have seen some unfair examples that there are people who do not get the work they are entitled to, and that is why we need to focus on how we can improve the rules and the municipal administration, as have changing governments. I will come back to that. The question we are going to discuss today is whether it would be appropriate to introduce a general time limit for the proceedings. As I read the proposal, it is intended, on the one hand, to introduce national time limits for the handling and clarification of the individual's case and, on the other hand, to introduce a right to continuous medical advice and assessment. Let me start with the procedure deadline. I would like to make it clear that it is essential for the government that the procedures and procedures for dealing with the sick citizen should, of course, be as short as possible. That applies regardless of the benefit the citizen is on. However, I would also like to say that it is absolutely fundamental for the employment effort that the municipality should organise a process for the individual citizen, based on an assessment of the needs of the individual citizen, because we people are different, and the effort must therefore be organised in the light of the individual health situation of the citizen, and that is how we think it should continue to be. But we must also recognise that some complex cases take time and that does not change a two-year time limit. That is why I do not believe that a time limit for processing is the answer to the problem. For some citizens, clarification of their situation may require a longer period of time. It may be citizens who need action across the social, health and employment fields. For example, there may be citizens who need health care before they can take part in an effort at the job centre. Or there may be a young person with a serious mental illness, where there may be a need for a longer perspective in order to be linked to the labour market. Generally speaking, we want to give as many people as possible the opportunity to have a life with work, and therefore the rules must support that ability to work is something that can be developed under the right conditions. Especially for young people, we have a responsibility to make an effort to develop their ability to work, so it can easily take more than two years. It will therefore be very individual how long the individual case will take. It depends on the specific circumstances of the case and the needs and assumptions of the individual. For those reasons, I think it would be inappropriate to set a rigid and slightly square time limit for the duration of proceedings. Nor is it quite clear from the proposal what decision the municipalities will take after the two years have passed. So, what should the municipality do if the citizen's situation is not stationary and therefore cannot be assessed definitively? You can't say, for example. retirement pension or other benefit if the person concerned does not fulfil the conditions. In other words, a general time limit for proceedings may force municipalities to take decisions in cases which are not yet sufficiently clarified and documented, and I do not think that this is a scenario we want. However, that does not mean that matters have to drag on, and I believe that there is a problem that we should focus on. In fact, I think the proposers are right about that, and that shows, for example, that. The project will include more people. Although many people through the project have entered jobs and training, there is also a large proportion of the long-term recipients of cash benefits who end up being searched for flexible jobs and early retirement. This can be done better, and we are in the process of doing so, and another part of the proposal is that the citizen and the caseworker should be able to obtain medical advice and assessment from the clinical functioning of the regions on an ongoing basis. I agree that it is essential that the health challenges of the citizen be taken into account on an ongoing and systematic basis, and the job centre should never refer the citizen to take part in interventions which impair the health of the citizen. The municipality must take into account the health of the citizen and either adjust or interrupt the effort or offer a completely different effort in specific cases, e.g.: if the citizen is too ill to participate in the offer or if there is a risk that the health of the citizen will deteriorate. But I must also say that I do not agree that we should leave it up to doctors to assess the health implications of work ability. Working capacity is a broader and more complex assessment than diagnosis and health. When the municipality evaluates the citizen's ability to work, it is based on an overall assessment of the citizen's resources and needs, and this is due, among other things, to the fact that, on the basis of a diagnosis alone, it is not possible to determine how much working capacity citizens have. The same diagnosis can have very different consequences for two different people, and it will often depend on their other physical and mental resources, their social conditions, their education, their labour relations. Medical information plays a major role. They must do so, and the municipalities cannot change or ignore medical assessments. But even if medical information is central to the whole case, it cannot stand alone. There is always a need for a concrete individual assessment of whether there is a need for additional health information in a case, and this must remain the case. As I have said, the government shares the intention behind the proposal, and in recent years we have launched a series of initiatives aimed at ensuring better and more targeted action for the country's unemployed, for example with the agreement on better management of resources. Here, the basis was created for more focused processes and an earlier and more targeted effort for citizens in resource sequences. We have among other things. a lower limit on the duration of the courses, and if no action has been taken within the first 6 months, the case will have to be re-examined in the rehabilitation team. In addition, we introduced the right to interview with a health coordinator from the clinical function of the regions. This means that if the citizen is insecure about taking part in a concrete effort for fear that it may worsen his or her health, then the person can talk to a doctor. The agreement was concluded as part of the critical review of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, and in the new year we will meet with the parties again to go back to the rules on flexible jobs and early retirement. The government will do the same in the forthcoming critical review of the sickness benefit reform, and in addition, the Minister for Employment, whom I am replacing at the moment, has again this year announced a ministerial target for the employment effort, which is about gaining more dignity in the handling of cases. With this goal, we send a clear signal to employees and managers and politicians in the municipalities. Citizens must meet with respect and dignity when they appear in the country's job centres. So to sum up our views on the citizens' proposal: we agree with the intention. We agree with the desire to promote a uniform procedure and rapid clarification, but, as I have mentioned, there are a number of key elements which will need to be clarified and defined in order to be able to take a real position on the proposal and, for that reason alone, the government cannot support the proposal. But I also doubt that a time limit for processing is the answer to the problem. In my view, rapid clarification is also about the fact that the citizen is being given targeted action with content that makes sense for the individual. This must be done early and there must be a plan so that the citizen understands the purpose of the process. I am also aware that the proposers themselves state that a time frame cannot guarantee clarification in isolation, but that the content of the process is crucial. I agree with that, and I believe that this is where we should focus, in other words, on increasing quality. The Government will continue to work to strengthen procedures to avoid pointless procedures, to avoid long-term parking on cash benefits, and to ensure that citizens are granted, as soon as the documentation is in place, the basis for their situation. This is also an issue which the Commission of the European Communities has dealt with and which we will have the opportunity to discuss in connection with the follow-up to the work of the Commission of the European Communities. And although I understand the wish behind the citizens' proposal, the setting of a national time limit is not the way we want to go, and therefore the government cannot support the proposal. I would like to thank you for the proposal, which helps to focus on the political priorities and the discussions, despite the fact that we cannot support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126112648	Thank you to the working Minister for Employment. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126112703	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I also look forward to this being one of the important things we need to discuss when we are negotiating on the recommendations of the Service Commission for a new performance system. I would like to return to the issue of the quality of the citizen raised by the Minister. For some of what I find very difficult is that we are dealing with citizens who often experience that they are in a Kafka system. You cannot see for good reason what the consequences are, because the legislation is sometimes contradictory. There are so many rules that even some of the best lawyers and social workers may find it difficult to understand the consequences of all the rules that exist. What does the Minister think of us giving these citizens rights? I also think that this is about the right to be searched correctly and the right to have clarification rather than to be locked on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126112758	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126112802	As the questioner himself also refers to, the work of the Service Commission is primarily about services and about what incentives and the economy are in it, but it is also about the things we are talking about today. That is why I am also sure that this will be a discussion in the coming months, when Enhedslisten is of course more than welcome to raise some of the issues that are also mentioned here. I don't mind people having rights. We must have that as citizens, even when we meet the authorities. What we are a little sceptical about in this resolution is that too rigid rules are being built into legislation. They may have been carried by a good intention, for example. a deadline of two years, but in practice they end up placing a lot of citizens and a lot of municipalities in a situation where there will be a process that has not been clarified and where no decision can be taken, for example. whether a person should be searched for flexible jobs and early retirement. Then it may be a beautiful intention, but in the real world it will be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126112907	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126112910	Thank you. I think that is actually an interesting consideration. We are going to raise the demand for a clarification guarantee, because we think it is an important right for the citizen. But one of the things I can be worried about is what meets the citizen afterwards. So are you just being held in a resource cycle, or what happens? Because we see at the same time that it has become difficult to get into flex jobs or to obtain the right to an early retirement pension even if you are ill and you risk that the financial interests of the municipality are heavier than what is best for the citizen. Could the Minister be worried about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126112942	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126112945	It is perhaps a slightly broader discussion about the organisation of the welfare state. If there are some municipalities that have cut down on the care of the elderly so much that there are some elderly people who cannot take a bath, a political desire arises that you should have the right to two baths a week; if there are too many pupils in a high school class, there is a desire for a ceiling on how many there can be in a high school class; if there are too few educators in some day care institutions, we must have minimum standards. It is all carried by good intentions. But the more things we pull into the Parliament hall and decide on, and the more rigid we make the legislation, the less the room for action is at the individual welfare institution to make things work. Therefore, I just think that we should always be aware that there is enough economy to lift the welfare state and that there is confidence that the municipal councils are able to do the best for their citizens and that we are not trying to make too rigid legislation from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113033	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Alexander Grandt of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113052	Today we have to deal with a citizen's proposal on case-handling guarantees and multidisciplinary quality in the case of sick people. It is a sympathetic proposal, and in the Social Democrats we also share the intention behind the proposal, in particular the part about the fact that it should not be possible to maintain sick citizens in pointless and long-term clarification. That is not the intention of the benefit system we have today, that is to say that sick citizens should be stuck in the cash benefits system. I agree with the proposers that citizens who are too sick to look after a job on ordinary terms should, of course, have the right help and support to be able to move forward in the system, but I do not think it is appropriate to set national and general deadlines in relation to the procedure. This is mainly due to the fact that the duration of proceedings may vary from case to case and from citizen to citizen, because they are individual proceedings and individual cases. The duration of the proceedings will therefore also depend on the needs and conditions of the individual citizen. Although I share the intention that citizens should not be stuck in the system for years, I continue to believe that the most important thing is that each citizen should be searched for the right help and support. That is why I can be concerned that these national deadlines are inappropriately likely to help citizens to be searched for the wrong offer without the necessary documentation and that the matter is not sufficiently enlightened because of time constraints. And I think that would be an inappropriate consequence of the proposal. In this context, I would like to refer to the initiatives that the government has already taken in the context of the agreement on better management of resources. With the agreement on better resource cycles, we shortened the time period for how long the courses may be, from 5 to 3 years. In addition, we both reached an agreement on the guarantee of clarification, so that citizens over 50 years of age within three years will be assured of whether, for example, we are going to have a guarantee. in early retirement or in flexible jobs, and guaranteeing resources within the first six months. In other words, a number of important initiatives have already been taken to ensure that citizens are not stuck in the system for many years. This does not mean that there can be no areas where we need to do things better and where more needs to be done, and that is why I am also pleased that the Minister is suggesting that in the framework of the Service Commission we can discuss how to set up the cash assistance system and our performance system in the future. Against this background, social democracy cannot support the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113331	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113337	Thank you very much for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. System-inflicted mental malpractice what does that mean? This means that the citizen who is ill and in a position to be in the job centre becomes more ill by being in the system because of the system created by a majority in here at Christiansborg, becomes more ill by being in a place where you should actually have received help. It's not just something that comes from the horrible stories that people who are stuck tell. We also have a report from the SIND and Psychiatry Foundation which shows that people are getting sicker the longer they have been in the system. What will the Social Democrats suggest that we do to solve this problem, because I assume that no one wants people to be broken by being on cash aid or by being in the process of resource development? What has been done with the agreement on flexible jobs is far from enough, and I could also be nervous about what is waiting for in relation to the agreement on early retirement. So what do the Social Democrats think we should do?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113447	In any case, I am thinking that it is not a maximum time limit for processing which solves the problem mentioned by the rapporteur here. This is, of course, a serious problem which must be taken very seriously in the individual proceedings in the individual municipality. That is because something is going on wrong in the way we go to it, and I do not necessarily think that is a question of how many years are going to go by, but of what course you are part of as a citizen. That is why we must be aware that there must be quality in the procedure that is being carried out. That is, of course, much more important than if it takes two or two and a half years, in my opinion. However, I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is a problem that we must take seriously, including on the part of Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113536	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113538	I certainly hope that we have made one agreement, but are about to have a debate on the rethinking of employment efforts; at the beginning of the new year, the negotiations on the last part start to take this seriously in the government and will actually be ready to say that there are some conciliations we have made, among other things. on the Act on Active Employment and that even if the other parties in the conciliation circle do not agree to change these things, we will have to step out of this conciliation, otherwise we risk not getting rid of these things. I think that time is a really big factor, but the other things, confusion, and that you get pulled in and have to a lot of different things, also means a lot. What does the rapporteur think about this, so one will be ready to say that if the others do not want to change it, one will be ready to withdraw from the compromise on the Act on Active Employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113629	I do not think that we are ready to go out of that, but I think that what is essential is what we actually know about good procedures. I mean, like... The fact that, as a citizen, a new caseworker after a new caseworker, in other words, many case workers change through a process, creates a poor process of clarification. So there are plenty of other things that can be done, which do not actually require changes in the law, but which are about how to organise work in the public sector today, and I think that is more interesting to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113700	Thank you. Then there are no further comments, which is why it is Mrs Anne Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126113725	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to begin by recognising the initiative of the proposers; this is a very important matter which we are putting on the agenda today. The proposal we are debating today is that national time limits should be set for the handling of cases in order to clarify the ability to work and the dependency base. The time limit is proposed to be set at 2 years. In the Left, we fully agree that the duration of proceedings must be as short as possible, and that is why we also support the intention of the proposal. In the Left we know that people thrive best when they are part of a community, and the largest community we have in Denmark is the working community. The working community is the foundation of a good society and a good life for the individual. All people deserve to be part of the working community, and we must believe that all people have a value that they can contribute, including in the labour market. However, in the Left, we also recognise that a balance must be struck in the extent and extent of the progress made by the citizens. We recognise that there are people who have lost their ability to work permanently, and those people should not be subjected to blatantly pointless clarification. When we last had government responsibilities, we did something concrete to put an end to pointless resource processes. We clarified the rules and ensured that sick citizens should only be in resource stages if that makes sense. And in the Left Government, we took the initiative for a legislative proposal to simplify the employment effort and it was adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing. The rules were simplified so that citizens could understand the demands that are being made and, at the same time, have given municipalities greater freedom to ensure that efforts are adapted to the individual according to personal requirements and needs, including health status. It also follows from the applicable law that the municipality must decide as soon as possible, and it is important to maintain that the municipalities are responsible here. The clear aim of the law is to ensure a lasting link with the labour market, even if it is only a few hours away, a purpose with which we in the Left naturally agree, because we think everyone has something to contribute. Back to the proposal: in the Left, we believe that there are some shortcomings in setting national time limits for the handling of cases. Firstly, the proposal aims at a very broad and complex target group. In the Left we fear that a two-year deadline will actually have a negative impact on the weakest groups. I am talking here about a group where it is about developing the ability to work through a multidisciplinary, coherent effort, and it is a group where long-term efforts are needed. We fear that a two-year period will mean that these people will be inadvertently parked on permanent public support. Secondly, we in the Left are concerned about the citizens who have a more diffuse disease picture. Here it can be difficult to make a final diagnosis before the citizen's condition is stable. It is therefore important that several different options have been tested before a final decision on permanent support is taken. This may take time, but is extremely important for the individual not to lose his or her link with the labour market. Conversely, there may be people whose case can and should be dealt with within a short time, so a two-year period would be unreasonable and unacceptable. The Government also points out that the proposal will entail additional costs, and this also has a negative effect on employment, and, finally, there will be significant administrative burdens in the municipalities. The Left cannot therefore support the proposal. However, we would like to help to strengthen legal certainty in this area and to ensure greater involvement of the general practitioner and other health authorities in the proceedings. We believe that this will ensure a higher quality of handling and will also help to shorten processing time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114104	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114110	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. There's some of what's being said that I don't quite understand. We have the Left, who, on the one hand, would like these people to live far below it, the research recommends a much lower amount of money available to pay for the children to go to football, that they can be part of social activities and that you can make the economy stick together, even if it has real consequences. And one of the arguments used is that it is a temporary benefit, but at the same time the Left will not agree to make it a temporary benefit and that as a citizen you have a right to be searched correctly and to get away from this enormously low performance that the Left has created with the Løkke government. Can the rapporteur help me to understand the link between the two things?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114204	In other words, the citizens' proposal is now about searching for either flexible jobs or early retirement, and what we think is that we would like to see it maintained in the labour market to the extent that is now possible. We have therefore given the municipalities the opportunity to adapt this process. However, we also believe that there is a right and a duty, and we believe that it is better for citizens to be a few hours out on the labour market than to have public support permanently.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114244	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114247	You have a right and a duty. I believe that these citizens we are dealing with are those who would most like them to be healthy and healthy and that they could be part of an ordinary working community and not have to struggle with all the things you struggle with when you are sick. The fact that you have to be part of the labour market would be much easier if you could get started with the flex job and had some rights, so it was easier to get a flex job and perhaps be able to be associated with the job you already had before you got, for example. a work injury or other. Can the rapporteur not be worried that by doing this torment, which takes it enormously far out, we are actually at risk, as the report from the SIND and the Psychiatry Foundation shows, that people are being broken and therefore because of the system cannot be part of the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114333	Well, I totally agree. Nor has it ever been intended to drag out and be a long torment. It is precisely in the law that it must take place in as short a time as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114342	Thank you. Then there is no further comment on Mrs Anne Rasmussen, and that is why it is Mr Rasmussen. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114355	Thank you for that, President. We in the Danish People's Party think this resolution is very commendable. There is a group that has been looking at the problems that exist for sick citizens who are in a system from which they feel it is hopeless to move forward. We have experienced this many times, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party were also in charge of getting the scheme introduced.More people have to join us, where we turned the pile of those who had gone a long time on transfer income, cash benefits. A great many people were transferred to flex jobs or early retirement. We have then gone further into and started to look at the piles, but we must also recognise that they have many different ways of acting and treating people who are sick in the municipalities. That is why we also think it is right and proper to look at the length of the proceedings. We do not think it is right that, if you go and are ill and get one medical certificate from specialists after another, you still have to be dragged through the system. So the maximum of two years for clarification, if you have been through a medical examination, we think that is reasonable. In connection with the measures that have been taken on the early and flex-job reform, which we in the Danish People's Party are not part of, we are not part of the agreement, because it was not good enough, when it was made, we have been looking at the processing time, but it is not good enough yet. This requires something more from the municipalities, because it is not intended to keep people who are sick, stuck in a system and then send them through one work test after another. It is still happening in the municipalities, even though the legislation was changed, and therefore it is right and proper for the government to start looking at more clear rules on how long one must go, how quickly one needs clarification. But that is one of the things that lies in the reform of the early and flex-jobs, which the Minister actually mentioned. I hope, then, that the parties involved in the agreement on this will take responsibility when negotiations are called for. The Danish People's Party is not included, and the Enhedslisten is not included in that agreement either, but there are many things you can do to get these citizens to move forward. I can also see that there are a number of different legislations on the reform of the early and flex-jobs, the sickness insurance agreement and also training aid and such. But that is why we need to look a little more broadly at what needs to be done to remedy the problems that exist. However, one thing is quite clear: a time of proceedings that goes on for two years without a proper answer to your future is untenable. You can easily get a temporary agreement on an early retirement pension and then work on getting people out into the job market, and you can also get a flex job where you work to get more and more hours until you can last without support. Those opportunities are there, and I think that is one of the things that needs to be looked at in the context of legal work. Because we certainly have a large group that feels that they are not being heard in the municipalities. We have worked to make uniform rules, but this has not been achieved. Getting the municipalities is convinced that they must work according to the same rules and according to the legislation that is being made inside Christiansborg, seems a bit of a hopeless task. But it should be the case that you get the same treatment regardless of whether you are in Copenhagen or Frederikshavn or Esbjerg Municipality. It should be the same treatment you get, but it is not. So it is certainly an invitation to the government to look at whether something more uniform can be done so that the municipalities cannot avoid giving citizens the procedures they need and quick clarification. We have raised the problem on several occasions in this House of the fact that the municipalities override specialist declarations about people. That's not fair. If the municipality itself has sent citizens to a specialist, it is not reasonable that the municipality subsequently overrides the declaration that comes from a specialist. It is also one of the things that it is important for the Danish People's Party to get right. However, we are positive about the proposal. And how the further progress will be in the system in this Parliament is so little too early to say yet, but we are discussing it in committee and I think the government is taking it seriously. I certainly hope so. But otherwise we can press the government so they take it seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114901	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114906	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to go into this with what it is that will be clarified if the citizen's proposal goes through. Because I think that the debate in this Chamber has given us such an impression that previous legislation has reduced the number of flows of resources that we need to go through. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that it is true that for a few, the number of flows of resources has been reduced, but a great many can therefore still be dragged away through the one and the other flows of resources, as the legislation is today. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126114951	Yes, problems are still gone; there are some that are being pulled through it, and from the Danish People's Party we have always said it has been our clear message that with a two-year programme of resources one should be able to clarify. There may be a few cases in which it takes longer, and it may also be people's wish that they want to continue working on entering the labour market, which of course needs to be taken into account, but for the vast majority there should be clarification within two years when you have been a specialist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126115011	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126115014	Thank you. But will the Danish People's Party help to look at such a clarification guarantee, which takes into account the citizen's own wishes, or if the doctor, who is associated with the citizen, and it may also be a hospital doctor, says that there is a need for further clarification, does it? But the fact that, as a citizen, you have a right to be cleared up is that if nothing happens in your case, you can say that something has to be done now, because I have this right to be searched properly and to be clarified? Will the Danish People's Party be open to look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126115048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126115052	We're always open to looking at everything. But Mrs Victoria Velasquez knows just as well as I do that the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten will not influence it because it is in the agreement on the early and flexible job reform among the parties involved. And the Danish People's Party will not be invited to the negotiations, and neither will the Enhedslisten. So, in relation to saying whether or not we want to do it, I would say that it is being thrown off the board by the parties behind the early and flex-job reform. So we do not get much further on that, but we agree far along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126115121	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126115131	If working is so healthy, you should give it to the sick. That's what a satirist said, and he had no idea how close he'd get to the real-life job centers. The system prescribes work testing as medicine, but different people should not be given the same medication. A job center has to work with the cashiers to help people in jobs. If you are ill, or if you have a social resume that is longer than the Siberian railroad, you must meet helping hands in the health sector or in social services. The sick and the socially vulnerable must get out of the job centres. Citizens must have a helping hand that meets them exactly where they are in life. We must build up a system with faith in the individual and without headless coercion. It makes sense to everyone, both for those who just lack a job here and now, and for the sick and the vulnerable, who cannot simply enter the labour market. Employees must have a strong professional background, because legal certainty requires a thorough knowledge of the law, but far too many municipal case workers are today not trained social workers, nor is it any use for the case workers to be buried behind towering piles of cases. Socially disadvantaged people do not belong in an employment office. In close and trusting cooperation, the municipality and the citizen must find out what is best for the individual in the long term. Sometimes it makes the best sense with addiction, sometimes with psychiatric efforts, very basic education or help against dyslexia. The job will have to wait until the citizen is ready. Enough is enough; sick people should not fight the municipality. Pre-retirement or flex jobs can be exactly the lifesaving wreath for a better life. Everyone has a right to be treated with care and dignity, but unfortunately all too often we see that instead of trippers being stretched out in front of people who already find it difficult to stay on their feet. It must be the end of grotesque stories about sick people being tormented with one work test after another, and it must be the endless wait for the citizen to be thrown around in the system. We see that in some municipalities sick people are being held as prisoners in a virtually lawless no-man's country. It breeds desperation and frustration to be treated like a turtle in the municipal dryer. The legal position of citizens must be strengthened against the municipality; people must be stronger against the system. Early retirement and flexible work should of course not be a roof-top table, but I think that too many municipalities go too far in their zealous pursuit of the citizen's last theoretical ability to work. Rehabilitation teams are, after all, composed across different professional groups and play an important role, and they are well thought out. The municipality can make an individual assessment that comes all the way around the whole human being, but unfortunately we have to say that the good intention is too often lost due to poor leadership. There is one work test after another, sometimes only for half hours, continuously changing case workers, there is a perpetual suspicion, medical statements are ignored, and there is a constant drag in the long run it is in some places in the country exactly the municipal torment bench. People who are already ill and vulnerable are put under physical and mental pressure. There is, of course, a great difference between the behaviour of the municipalities, but we sometimes look directly into a municipal horror cabinet: papers disappear, meetings are postponed or cancelled, questions and complaints are not answered etc. It is the degrading experience of being a number in the queue reduced to a case that has to fill out new schedules, come to new conversations and new work tests. In short, it requires good health to be sick. SF has been arguing for years to give impetus to the proceedings, and we have proposed several times different time limits imposed on them. Fortunately, this was also part of our last adjustment of the law, but the deadlines were far from being as tight as SF would have liked, but it was a step forward. SF would very much like to go further along that path and therefore SF can support the citizens' proposal. There are parts of the proposal that we are not so sure about, among other things. the somewhat rigid 2-year rule, but the crucial thing is that the citizens' proposal puts people more strongly in the face of the system, and that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126115626	Thank you. There are no comments to the rapporteur. So we move on, and this is Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126115637	Thank you for the floor. I am filling in today for Samira Nawa, but I am delighted that we will have the opportunity to debate a citizen's proposal, because it allows the people to make a proposal that we then relate to. We recognise the intention of the citizens' proposal that people should not be kept on temporary benefits, and the Radical Left also recognises that there are people on sickness benefits, education grants, resource benefits, job clearance courses, unemployment benefits, who are experiencing long periods, too long courses. But cause of illness and ability to work can be difficult to clarify. We believe that this should be done with a focus on dignity, respect, human health and resources. We would like to look at the possibilities for faster processing, but do not see that the 2-year demarcation period is the answer. We know that there has been work on a new main law, a law that should allow for a more flexible procedure. Because we don't think that the case workers in the job centres are making obstacles just because they're bad people. No, we believe that it is the legislation that is difficult to administer. So it is a work with a new law where case workers can work together across disciplines, where case workers with one plan, for example. put citizens at the centre, sit with citizens and find the way forward in life. Several good tools have been developed. One of the last things we have seen working in the municipalities is the IPS effort, where people get into employment, people who are far from the labour market due to psychological problems. We must continue to seek new opportunities in order to allow people to be in employment from individual perspectives. In the negotiations on the recommendations of the Service Commission, Radicals focus on temporary benefits. People should not be kept for many years on temporary benefits. Being part of the community through an employment or other form of activity is essential for human health and well-being, to belong to create identity. Several studies support the importance of this, which is why the Radical Left believes it is important to focus on identifying opportunities with respect for the resources of the individual, even if it takes time. That is why we cannot support the citizens' proposal with the 2-year demarcation, because it may be that clarification takes more than two years. We believe that we should look at people before the system, and therefore it requires a focus on legislation, and we will be concerned about that work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126115952	Thank you to the Radical Left. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126120007	Thank you. I would actually like to say what it is: I see this citizen's proposal, which I think is very much needed. It is fantastic that it has achieved the number of votes; thank all those who have made the citizens' proposal come to the Parliamentary Assembly to express the fact that an employment system has been set up in which the people in the employment system have been sacrificed in order to be able to create a competitive state. I think it is very sick to create a system that is built on fear in this way, and even when reports and evidences are therefore, as if the reports coming from the citizens of the system should not be enough, show that people get sicker from being in the system than they were before they entered the system, there is no serious response to it. How come you don't do that? I honestly think it's because you want to make people so afraid of getting sick and getting on cash benefits that they'll put up with anything at their workplace to make sure they don't get into this system. You don't ask for more in pay; you don't say when someone breaks the health and safety rules or when other things happen at work; you simply put up with more because you won't risk losing a job and you won't risk getting into the system that knows you'll get even sicker if you're sicker. The consequence for the citizen is that you get very scared, so you don't know what the future is going to bring; what kind of opportunities are there? Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen made it almost impossible to obtain what is called rehabilitation, which would mean that you could actually get a boost, a shift that could enable you to get an education at the level of unemployment benefit and be allowed to move on, so that you could gain some experience that would enable you to go somewhere else, if you could, for example, go somewhere else. had suffered an occupational injury within his profession. A great many of the things that should make it possible to build up the citizen and give the citizen rights and opportunities to grow stronger and return to society have almost made impossible; they have become what is called secondary. This means that all other things must be tested before they can be used. In practice we can also see that the use of it has fallen wildly. In practice, the rights that should make the citizen better have been virtually abolished. This has huge implications for family members, for friends, because it draws a great deal of resources from the individual and makes it difficult to show up. We also know that a lot of people get stressed mentally and experience distrust when they're in this system, and that makes them resign. They may retire in relation to putting things on Facebook, for example. pictures of cookies they baked or from volunteering. In the Independent we saw how a member of the Folketing went in and problematized that one interfered in the political debate, by saying: Well, then he had to be so resourceful that he should not be in flex jobs. So that suspicion means that a lot of people don't have the guts to get involved. It has really major consequences for the citizen. However, this also has some consequences for the caseworker. When you go to the website, which is about becoming a social worker, it says that as a social worker you are dressed on a legal basis to solve social problems. That is not what is happening today. Social problems are not solved. I believe that a great many social workers feel deceived because suddenly, if they are to comply with the law, they must create social problems for the citizen; in other words, those who have to help are also the ones who have to sanction. I think that is absolutely grotesque. The people who actually thought they were going to help these citizens are being cheated, because we are giving that or I am saying it, but the majority of Christiansborg who have made the legislation are not allowed to do so. Then it also has consequences for our society. I really think it is right that a society should be judged on how to treat those who have the least and who are in the most vulnerable situation. This way of treating sick people as if they're criminals and as if they're lazy and don't want to take a job, I actually think they're completely disrespectful. A lot of the people I've talked to say, I never thought this would be me. You always think it's gonna hit your neighbor. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people for whom they first realize what kind of Kafka system we have when it's they get sick or know someone who gets sick. So I also hope that this citizens' proposal will help to raise awareness further in society, in relation to something happening here. And then we have to put pressure on the parties involved in some of the settlements that are holding onto this, among other things. the settlement of the Act on Active Employment, the settlement of flex jobs, early retirement, etc.; I simply do not think we can be aware that sick people are being treated in this way, as is happening today. We support the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126120514	Thank you. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126120526	Thank you very much. After all, the proposal is about giving all persons who receive sickness benefit, training allowance, cash assistance, resource development benefit or unemployment benefit the right to clarify their working capacity within a maximum of two years in order to provide them with a more permanent dependency. We immediately think that this is a good proposal that we are positive about. There is, after all, a lot of knowledge and research in this area about how many citizens are hanging in the job centres in an unresolved situation. And we know that the longer you are away from the labour market, the harder it will be to get back into jobs. No later than this morning, I've heard of someone going down to help the sick citizens at the job centres for these meetings. These are meetings with little content, and one has to ask oneself: can we be familiar? However, there is always one but one in relation to providing citizens with a maximum procedural guarantee of two years, which can contribute to a uniform procedure and confidence in the public administration, it is certain that it will also contribute to more people in the public sector, in particular more people being abandoned by society and possibly receiving an early retirement pension. Among other things: the individual will have a strong incentive to improve his health, not actively participate in employment-oriented offers if there is a clear end time for the benefit and if he can expect to have access to any early retirement after two years. In this context, it is not recommended that the individual's own general practitioner carry out the health assessment. It is important that the assessment be made on the basis of a more objective approach, where there is knowledge of job opportunities and which can assess the ability of the person concerned to work in relation to the whole labour market. We are very much looking forward to following the committee's proceedings and will play our own part in considering whether, instead of a procedural guarantee, it might perhaps be possible to consider putting in a guarantee of effort, such as the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control. to a greater extent guarantee that the municipalities offer the benefit recipients concerned an opportunity to participate in job-oriented activities such as internships in private companies, combined, possibly, with health interventions. According to research, combined processes have the best effect on people who both lack jobs and have health problems. So, as things stand right now, we cannot support the proposal, although it has many good points and intentions that we hope to be able to take forward in other negotiations in the Ministry of Employment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126120828	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126120833	Thank you. I think a little bit: what does Conservatives think should happen if you just keep being hammering sick and not feeling better? What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126120848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126120850	There is no doubt that if you are sick and unable to work, you may have to get an early retirement pension and get it clarified as soon as possible, but there are also just many people for whom the clarification process is longer than 2 years. Then I personally take the view that we need to simplify the rules throughout the employment effort. I think the last time I got the question, I came to the conclusion that 26,000 different laws had been made in this whole area. So maybe there's a need to clean this up a little bit, so it's gonna be a little bit simpler.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126120926	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126120929	How long does Conservatives think that's long enough? I mean, how long do you have to last? be pounding sick in the system? Because today it just keeps going on and on for a lot of citizens. Then Conservatives mention this: there has to be a guarantee of effort and that you might be able to look at that. And you mention company practice and those different parts. What about rehabilitation? So, how about actually using one of the schemes we know has helped a lot, gives some self-esteem, provides some education, offers some opportunities? I think it's a huge mistake you've made in the past. Will Conservatives help us to actually see education on this citizen's terms as an opportunity for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121013	Yes, we certainly do. In other words, we would like to take part in people's education, and that is actually what I describe when I describe job-oriented activities: that there is no reason to train if there is no purpose to it, that is, a job at the other end. So we will do so to a great extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121029	Thank you. There is no more missing rapporteurs from the New Civil, Liberal Alliance, Free Greens and Christian Democrats. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121057	Negotiation is open. Minister for Employment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121124	The Conservative People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution to abolish the offsetting of income from work in the basic amount of the national pension. This is a re-submission of motion for a resolution No. B 223, tabled by the same party in the spring, and then a majority in the Folketing did not vote in favour of the proposal. The aim of the proposal is to reward the participation of the elderly in the labour market, and this is actually a purpose that we share in the government. We must support seniors to continue working after they have reached retirement age when they can and when they want. It is not a new agenda, but it is an important agenda, and it is one that we in the government very much want to discuss with the parties of the Folketing. Having said that, I think that the current arrangement of the pension system supports that older people can work after retirement age. It is important for me to stress that older people are not forced to receive a retirement pension; on the contrary, there are good opportunities to work after the official retirement age. Older people, for example: the possibility of making what is called a retirement pension. This means that it is an opportunity for older people who continue to work with a high income from work and who have set up a pension, you can postpone your retirement pension. The pension is then paid at a later stage, typically when you no longer work. In this way, the elderly avoid that the income from work leads to an escalation of their old-age pension benefits. I think this is a good arrangement. We have also continually made it more economically attractive for retired people to work while receiving a national pension. For example, the limit on the amount to be earned before it leads to a reduction in the retirement pension is the same. has been increased by several laps. Today, a folk pensionist can earn approx. 10,000 kroner. a month, without affecting the pension. That's 122,000 kroner. a year. And a tax-free senior premium has also been introduced. The premium is awarded to those who continue to work after reaching the age of their retirement age. All these measures mean that the old-age pensionist, who works alongside the old-age pension, has received more money between his hands, and I think that is only positive. Having said that, Denmark is also in a special situation. The economy is in full swing, even so much that many companies lack labour. And that's also why the government in our project can more You have two proposals that are about seniors. Today, many pensioners experience that they receive less pension because their partner has an income from work. For the government it is important that the Danes who are married or cohabiting with a pensioner have the same financial incentives to work as everyone else. The government therefore proposes to relax the rules on spouse dependency. The proposal contributes to the fact that much more seniors and pensioners will continue to work. Having an income from work will no longer affect the partner's pension. In addition, the government wants to encourage seniors who can and will stay in work, and therefore the government proposes to increase the senior prize. By increasing the tax-free senior premium, the economic incentive to remain in employment is increased. For the government, it is important that the benefits are targeted at those who need it most. At the same time, the proposals will reward those who take an extra turn in the labour market. And that is the balance that is important to us in the government. And we cannot therefore support the proposal that has been put forward, which merely takes account of pensioners with relatively high incomes next to their old-age pension. Having said that, we want to invite wide-ranging political cooperation, including in the area of pensions. And I look forward to constructive discussions with Parliament's parties in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121506	Thank you. Mrs Mette Abildgaard made a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121512	Thank you to the Minister for coming here and commenting on the motion for a resolution. The Minister has many considerations with which I can, in my view, agree and which I think are relevant. We may look at parts of this differently, but there's a place where I might wish we could find some common ground. It's in relation to the complexity that's in this area. What I'm hearing from a lot of people who have to navigate around these rules is that it's really imperceptible. It is difficult to navigate, there are many different rules, and there are many paragraphs to navigate from. Couldn't we have a common desire to try to simplify this, so it became a little more useful for the people it's about, who have to find their way around this jungle?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121556	Yes, and the measures that have been taken over the years have all been borne by good political intentions, and I also know that they have been implemented in this Chamber by a broad majority. However, I think that in general we have a problem in the area of employment with complexity. I would say, then, that what the government has proposed is that if you have a spouse or partner, we should not have set off in those cases, after all, will reduce complexity, because then the set-off will be zero in those cases, and it is a little easier to deal with than it is now. And I hope that we will be able to agree on that here in the coming time when we are going to negotiate the proposal we are coming forward with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121646	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121648	I fully recognise that these are measures that reduce complexity, as well as the proposal we are putting forward here, will also help to reduce complexity. As far as I can understand, this commission has been set up, which is going to bump in the spring of 2022 and which, as far as I could understand from the previous treatment here in the Chamber, is also looking at the complexity of this issue. Can the Minister say a few words about what the expectations are for this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121718	Unfortunately, I cannot make a few comments on what the expectations are of that work, but I can say that for the government, the balances will also be important here. We are in favour of reducing complexity; we are in favour of a carrot for pensioners who choose to work; we are also in favour of a social balance. The concrete proposal we are debating today will have a slightly unbalanced social balance, we think, because it will be those with the highest income that will make the most of it. Especially if you want to finance it in some of the ways that have been written in the motion for a resolution. To take action against the senior job scheme, you will get one, we think, a little wrong, where some of those who do not have so much are taken away and given to some of those who have enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121809	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we go to the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Alexander Grandt, Social Democracy, first.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126121825	Thank you for the floor. After all, we must again consider a motion for a resolution to abolish the set-off in the basic amount of the pension due to income from work. I understand that the proposers have tabled this resolution before, and since then nothing really has changed in the position of the Social Democrats. I would like to begin by recognising the intention behind the resolution, namely to reward older citizens who are taking an extra turn and still want to and have their health in order to continue their working lives, even if they have reached retirement age. At the same time, we are also in a situation where Danish companies lack hands, which is why it is only good if older citizens want to take an extra job, give a hand and make their experience and knowledge available to the Danish labour market. However, like the last time the proposal was dealt with in this Chamber, we are still waiting for a Commission report on withdrawal and wear and tear. The Commission will review the pension system, including: in order to strengthen the opportunities for seniors who can and will to stay longer in the labour market, and we therefore look forward to the Commission presenting the outcome of its work. Basically, we in the Social Democratic Party are of the opinion that the welfare society should act as a safety net for those who, for one reason or another, need community help, and it is a question of finding a balance between increasing incentives to work and helping those who need an extra hand. And, of course, you should not be penalised for working after retirement, nor should you receive benefits while at the same time you have a high income. Because that is not really the way the welfare society is linked, and there I fear there is no proper balance in the motion for a resolution tabled by the authors of the motion for a resolution. As the authors are also aware, we have already taken steps which will make it more attractive for seniors to continue their working life after retirement. Most recently, we have in the government's proposal • Denmark can more I• propose to drop the set-off in the pension due to the partner's work income, as well as we have also proposed to increase the senior premium considerably. The Social Democrats cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, even at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122110	Sir. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122113	Thank you. I am sorry I have come into the Chamber a little late, but there are many debates today, and there is a lot going on around the castle. So it is very good that we stand and say: we cannot support it and now we are looking at commissions and we are awaiting it there. But the Social Democratic Party has had no problem in implementing an Arnepension, so just out of the blue. But when it comes to something like this that's about increasing screams So every time there comes an initiative that actually increases the number of hours worked, the supply of work out there, it always has to go down to commissions. Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122206	I disagree with the rapporteur's description: Arnepensionen just came out of nowhere. The Arnepension was then a well-prepared proposal on which this government has gone to the polls and which, fortunately, has been given a majority in favour of implementing it. And if you look at the government's initiatives, you will see that a lot of initiatives have been taken, and I also mentioned them just now, among other things. in relation to not setting off in pension if the partner has an income from work. So I think it is not quite right to say that the government is just putting everything to the corner in commissions when it comes to increasing the supply of work. • Denmark can increase the number of job offers. So I disagree with that description. But I also think there should be a social balance. In other words, when it comes to the provision of public services, there must, of course, be a social balance in it, and we do not think that there is in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122301	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122302	So the pension has become a social benefit! I just have to say that retirement is something you save for. That's a little funny. And yes: the proposal, when the government went to the polls on it, was completely unprepared. It was just supposed to be that way, and it just had to be trumped through and fair enough that you have the political attitude, but you could have left that in the overall picture of pension when it even called Arnepension. But they did not, because there is a political agenda, and the only thing that the government contributes to Denmark can do more than that and the Finance Act is to balance out the move that has been made on the job offer at Arnepension. And that is just not good enough, because it will really cost in the end and we will lose jobs on it, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122354	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122355	Well, I'm proud of Arnepensionen. I am proud that we have given people who have worked for many years on the Danish labour market; who are worn out; who have had difficulty in getting the opportunity to retire earlier on all the other senior schemes that have been here, a right to withdraw. I think that is only a welfare society worthy of the Danish. I have no problem with the fact that you are also looking at: is there anywhere where you can give incentives for those who can then work to work more and more? I think the government has also offered that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122431	Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122433	After all, the rapporteur recognises that we are facing quite considerable challenges as a country in terms of labour supply. And that's a good starting point. This is a challenge which has only increased significantly since the last time this resolution was discussed in the House. That is one of two reasons for the debate, and I will discuss that later on. The game that has come from the government correctly points to these 10,400 or how much it is. It could be much more if proposals had not been included, which actually reduce work supply quite considerably, because that is also what the government played out in Denmark can do more. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can point out proposals in addition to what has already been put on the table, which have a higher level of self-financing than this one, i.e. where the money comes back more to the treasury, in that there is a change in behaviour as a result of the change you are making. That is one of the great advantages of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122532	I don't know if it's my job to discuss this proposal now to come up with other proposals that should have a different level of self-financing. At least I'm not prepared to pull out of the back just like that. So I'm not gonna be able to answer you on that here from Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122557	It wasn't my purpose to quizz like that. I'm sorry if it appeared to be, because it was unfair. The point I was just trying to make was that we can expect a change of behavior as a result of removing this set-off, and the money will actually come back to the Treasury to a large extent. So if we have a common desire to increase the work offer also by more than the 10,400 that the government played out with and I also think there's been a recognition since the game that we actually need more than that, then this is just one of the places where we can do it relatively effectively. So that was the background to my question. Then perhaps I would just like to hear whether the rapporteur agrees that we also need to look at what it costs when we increase labour supply and there is some efficiency in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122639	It is clear that we must pick some low-hanging fruits, but there are social balances for which we must take responsibility from here too. And I do not think that the social balance has been found in completely removing the set-off. It will certainly glorify those who earn the most. And I think that's inappropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122703	Thank you. No further questions to the rapporteur. It's sir. Stén Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122717	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Conservatives for presenting this proposal here. It is, after all, a re-submission of a proposal from last spring in the last period. At that time, the Left basically agreed that our seniors are an asset and that we must constantly try to make it attractive to be in the labour market, even if you have retired. That agenda has only become more important since spring, as Danish companies are screaming for labour and not having to say no to orders and contracts. We must do everything we can from in here to ensure that they get the manpower that is so urgently needed. For the same reason, we in the Left have looked into the draft budget and found money for this particular initiative, and that is why the Left will support Conservatives' excellent motion for a resolution here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122815	Thank you. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126122841	Thank you for that, President. The proposal here is a re-submission of a proposal from the last session in which we also had it up for discussion. In this connection, we in the Danish People's Party took the view that we failed to take a position on it, because we could see the purpose of the fact that there are more elderly people who will remain in the labour market, but then when you look at what the proposal contains • that it is for those who earn more than DKK 344,000. We believe that this is the wrong way to go about it every year next to the retirement pension. We think that we should place more emphasis on those who do not have such a large income, on those who are set off in their pension supplements, on those who are set off in their spouse's pension, even if they have an income from work, so that this is the group that needs to be taken into account and bet on. We do not believe that it gives such a job offer to say that for someone who has an income of more than DKK 344,000, perhaps an income of DKK 500,000, or whatever I know, there is not being set off in the basic amount of the pension; the pension supplement is gone. However, there is more to be done to ensure that the spouse's pension is also offset if you have an income. This is the way we think we should go. Then one of the solutions that can stay here and that very many of those who have the high income next to the retirement pension should make use of the option of a retirement pension. Then they will not be set off in the old-age pension, and when they retire, they will receive a higher pension instead. That is the right solution instead of saying that we remove the set-off in the national pension, because I find it difficult to see that it would be so great a gain for those who have an income of more than DKK 344,000 that they do not have the set-off in the basic amount of the pension, which is about DKK 5,000.; I don't remember the exact number. What makes them the most profit is that they receive the pension set up so that they receive a higher pension when they stop working. That's what we did a few years ago, which Conservatives and the Left were also part of, with a pension set up. It was, moreover, in the hands of a Left Secretary of State for Employment that we made it with the set-up pension, where the amount set could then be paid out in instalments or paid out at once, that is to say that it was the way to go. That's what wins most. So let's concentrate on removing the offsetting of income from work in the spouse's pension, including in the own-pension scheme for those who earn less than this amount. There are many who are married to someone who is on the labour market while they are on early retirement, and then pensions are set off because someone is out on the labour market and it is not worth working overtime because it is offset. That's where the big win in the job offer is also much bigger than the one in this. I would not say that there is no job supply in this. I do not know the figure, and I do not know how much work supply will be increased if this is implemented. But in the Danish People's Party we just think that we should concentrate on those who earn less than that amount. And that means that the project that the government has in Denmark can do more, if it doesn't, because it's all been put quietly because of local elections; then it seems that the government will not tackle anything, because there should finally be no bad publicity. So it has all been laid still, and there have been no negotiations at all in any area here during the municipal elections, but when the government gets to it and the Minister for Employment comes back, it may be that there will be some negotiations again. By the way, it is, I believe, over in the Treasury, and the tax minister is still here. So I don't understand why the government doesn't start negotiating some of it. That is where the great gain is, and that is where the great job supply is, i.e. if you remove the set-off. And the Danish People's Party would like to take part in this. We are not saying that we are rejecting this; we are simply saying that we think it might not be the right solution in this respect. You have to bet more on a pension instead of a pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126123317	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126123332	In the SF we actually think it is high time we looked at the set-off rules. We just think that it is a good idea for us to look at it in a context where, as in this situation, we do not want to take out a single element and deal with it detached from other regulations that we think we should look at, including those for early retirement. However, we think it is a good idea, in principle, to reduce the set-off for income for pensioners, if it is true that it supports pensioners with the lowest incomes. After all, we have already made various arrangements in which we are trying to make it attractive to continue after retirement, so if that is exactly what we are going to talk about, I do not think it is necessarily this set-off that is the most important thing, because we are going in today and are giving rather solid premiums to people who want to continue. After all, we discussed this with the prizes a few years ago, and in those debates at that time I asked many times for even a minimum of evidence to be presented that it would exactly do that more people would work more, and it turned out that to the extent that we could get calculations on it, it was microscopic what it meant that in the first year we would pay 42 500 kroner. tax-free and in the year after 25,000 DKK. Well, overall it cost, as I just remember, about 400 million. kr., but the labour supply effect of that was absolutely minimal. We talked about a few hundred people, so it was an extremely expensive investment and a hugely costly spending of taxpayers' money on a labour supply effect that was hardly measurable. Because it turned out that the typical picture of those who continue to work after retirement age, for example. could be by a high school teacher or a university professor or other good people in very good jobs, who have typically entered the labour market late and have a really exciting job with a great content in working life. We then go to them and even give them a nasty prize to stay in a job they would probably have stayed in anyway. That's why it turned out that it's completely marginal what it means, and that's why you have to take it into account when you think if this proposal is going to make it exactly that more people will stay at work. But on the other hand, we also believe in the SF that the idea of this proposal to adjust and reduce the set-off is good enough, and we are therefore also pleased that this element is part of the negotiations which will, of course, be resumed at some point, about the government's proposal Denmark can do more. So, the problem itself, which is raised in this motion for a resolution, we find it extremely interesting, but it must be put together in the right way. Quite frankly, we do not want to give more money to people who have lived on the sunny side, but at the same time we see that many pensioners are getting through, and we would really like to do something targeted to do that, also by limiting the set-off. But we must also look at this in the context of what the former rapporteur mentioned, namely the possibility of retirement. So if, instead of pulling this element out like that without seeing it in the context of early retirement and the possibility of retirement, you could look at how you can turn it together, so that those you want to help are not the most wealthy pensioners, then we could be interested. I would also like to say that the financing of the motion for a resolution is probably as reactionary as it can be. Taking the money from people with the longest working life, with the hardest jobs, and most often with the lowest wages, namely those who enjoy early retirement, the so-called Arnepension, and then channelling the money to pensioners who, compared to this, have the best incomes, are basically as black as it can be. So we say no, as it is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126123755	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126123757	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I just need to make sure that I understood the rapporteur correctly in relation to the assessment of the work offer in this proposal. Did I hear the rapporteur correctly when the rapporteur said that this proposal would have virtually no effect on labour supply, or was it another proposal to which the rapporteur referred? Because we actually asked the Ministry of Finance about the impact of this proposal, which points to an effect of 1,400 men. And compared to the fact that the total government outlay covers more than 10,000 men, I think these 1,400 men are a slob. The effect of removing the set-off for spouses is about 300 men, as far as I remember. So if you put these two things in relief, the labour supply effect of this is quite great. Can the rapporteur say a few words about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126123841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126123842	What I referred to was our previous decision a couple of years ago, where we made these tax-free prizes of $2,500. the first year and 25,000 kroner. the following year. As I recall, it cost 400 million. kr. and had a marginal impact on the supply of work. I am sure that if we tighten it up properly, limiting or removing the set-off will have an effect on the supply of labour. I just think that we need to make it targeted for those who have the least. For those with the highest incomes, other opportunities will often be available. Moreover, it is perhaps often high school teachers, university professors and researchers who have just entered the labour market very late and have had a very good working life, and they often continue anyway. So I can only say here that I think that the supply of labour probably means more than the high premium, but I am not as impressed by the figure anyway than it costs. However, there may be other good reasons why there is a labour supply effect in limiting the set-off I recognise, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126123942	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126123943	Thank you for just getting that clarification with • I also wondered if I heard it wrong. For the Conservative People's Party, it is by no means excluded that the proposal we are putting forward here is a component of a larger bouquet of flowers, if it is to be said, where we also address some of the elderly who are at the lower end of the income group. But could SF's rapporteur try to be more specific about what it might be for some proposals that SF could bring forward that would address that group? Because that would be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124014	Our point with that is just that we want to support the pensioners who have the least. And that's why you can combine a revision of the law in a way that you go in and help them with income rather than help them with the highest incomes, as you do with this proposal. And how to do that, we can come back to it, but we have presented different ways of doing it. What I'm just sceptical about is this thing about rewarding pensioners who, after all, are better off compared to others, and then taking the money from seniors who look forward to retirement early. I don't like that connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124053	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Radical Left is not here. But this is Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124105	Thank you. See, we actually think that there is a very good logic in being able to work, then you work, and then you can postpone your pension, because the pension is intended precisely for those who cannot work anymore, in the form of a universal service. We also think that it is a good thing that there is a limit on wage income, i.e. when it can be set off. What really surprises me most in this context is that at the time, it was not felt that it was more important to offset capital income. Why is it just wage income? It can, of course, act as a barrier to the supply of labour. So I do not understand why there has been no set-off of capital income in the past. However, I am not going to table a resolution on this. However, we are actually satisfied with the system as it currently works and we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124156	Let's move on. New citizens aren't here, the Liberal Alliance isn't here, the Free Greens aren't here, but sir. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats, is here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124225	In principle, I have the view that the retirement pension should be a right. This is something that is paid for through a long life; it is not a social benefit, as I think the Socialist rapporteur did. It should be a right that we have, no matter what we do afterwards, it should actually be • regardless of what the spouse is doing, because you should never take initiatives that prevent people from making an extra effort if they want to, even if they have the right to the other. So just because of this principle point of view I know you have to put it down in some figures we would very much like to support the Conservatives' proposals. I also believe that I have promised Mrs Mette Abildgaard that I will support it when we had our big opening debate. I think it's excellent. We need to take all the initiatives we can to promote our labour supply in this country, because the alternative is that jobs move out of the country because businesses move out of the country. The alternative is also that in the public sector there are no hands to provide the service which I see a broad majority in the Folketing believe the citizens are entitled to, and which I hear the left, at least all the time, speaks for and would very much like to patent, so to have that view. That is why it is a mystery to me that the Left is making this a question of equality and inequality from an ideological point of view and making initiatives to promote employment which must be thrown into a commission, preferably not close, question the effects of, and so on, while, happily, without putting it into, a Commission, it is taking initiatives to pull labour and hands out of the labour market. Everyone should be able to say that it is not connected in the long run. That is why we warmly support the Conservative proposal here, and we hope that we can also come up with what Mr. Bent Bøgsted also mentioned, namely spouses etc. As I understand it, the reason why that limit was there is that that is where you are set off. We support all initiatives that promote the supply of labour in this country in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124601	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Alexander Grandt, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124604	That is a very brief comment. Does this mean that there is no limit for the Christian Democrats in relation to what initiatives can be taken to increase the supply of labour? Is it so widely understood that every conceivable initiative that can raise labour supply welcomes?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124623	It's such an assembly house trick, and I'm not buying that. No, of course not. However, all initiatives that can promote the supply of labour are very sympathetic to us, and then you have to go down in it and then see the proportionality of it and whether it also has the effect that we would like to have. That is why I say that I have the fundamental point of view, and then I recognise that something has to go into some spreadsheets afterwards. But I'm just wondering that you can take so many initiatives on the left and in the government and make the big deal with Arnepensionen. It's not because I politically disagree with Arnepensionen, that's not what I'm saying and just do it like that. After all, I sat as part of the support parties when it was negotiated, so I know how the plate was turned back then. I'm just wondering if you can do that. But every time something comes, especially from the bourgeois side, which then tries to promote the supply of labour on tax or the offsetting of pensions and such things, it must, like, be placed on a commission, and there I just say that it does not go on going in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124741	Thank you. Then there are no more comments, and then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126124803	Thank you. Thank you very much to those of you who have given priority to being in this Chamber, and thank you to the Minister for taking the time to deal with this Conservative People's Party resolution. The Minister said that this is not a new agenda, but an important agenda. At any rate, I am in complete agreement with the Minister. I must also add that this is also a very topical agenda, and that is also why we in the Conservative People's Party have allowed ourselves to retable this motion for a resolution. We only do that when we think there is a reason for it, because we will not take up more of our colleagues' time than what we consider necessary and proper. When we have had a desire to re-create this, it is because there is so much a shortage of labour in our country. When this was dealt with last time in the Parliamentary Assembly, the radical rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa, said in her speech that she would foresee that the shortage of labour would soon become a theme that we would be discussing more in this Chamber, and that she was absolutely right. Employment for employees has increased by 91,000 people from January to July 2021 and this is the clearest increase ever measured over a period of 6 months in Denmark. And it is clear that the sharp growth in employment has vacuumed our labour market in many ways, so unemployment in August was down to the lowest level for 12 years. That is why it has also been a focus for the government. We have presented Denmark with a long series of initiatives, which we have also discussed here. These are many good proposals which we in the Conservative People's Party also support and which are part of the negotiations that are currently under way, but there were also some that we were opposed to because they go in and reduce the supply of work, which we cannot quite see the logic of when we make a proposal to increase the supply of work. Several speakers have referred to the proposal to remove set-off in relation to the partner's income, and we think that is one of the very good proposals that lies in what the government has played out with. However, more needs to be done, and that is why we also need to think in terms of new proposals, and that is where we think our proposal to remove the set-off on the retirement pension is sensible. The Ministry of Finance has estimated that it will increase labour supply by 1,400 men, and that is quite significant. We suggest that if you have an income above these 344,000, where you are set off, you are drawn for 30%. That is what we are proposing, and we are suggesting that it should be removed. When you add the relatively high Danish tax, there is not much left after it is set off. We have no desire as a party to press or force anyone to remain on the labour market, since they can with their right of withdrawal, but we can only note that fortunately there are more and more people who are also healthy and bodily, but there are also some who are not, but some who are when they hit retirement age, and some of them want to make an extra effort. I found an article from Finans.dk from 21 January, and there's an economics professor from Aarhus University, Bo Sandemann Rasmussen, as if this proposal to remove the set-off on the folk pension says and I quote: "There's a huge degree of self-financing. It is difficult to find anything that can be compared to the • not even top tax credits •. The degree of self-financing is, after all, what indicates how much of the immediate loss of revenue is being returned and recovered as a result of a change in behaviour as a result of the change in the law that is being made. So when we propose this, it is partly because we think there are some elderly people who have the right to keep a greater share of the money they earn from themselves, when it is they who go to work and do the work, and partly because we have challenges with a shortage of labour in our society, and this is an effective proposal that has this high level of self-financing. Therefore, we are also pleased that both the Elders Case and the Danish Employers' Association have been out to encourage the government to include this proposal in the further work. I would also say that we are very, very willing to discuss this proposal in conjunction with other proposals. We do not want this to affect a specific group of pensioners or other people, we want to increase the supply of work and we want to keep more for ourselves. As well as the fact that my party is struggling to raise the limit on when to pay top tax, we are also working as a party to increase the employment allowance, so that those with the lowest incomes can get more for themselves. That is why we are also very open to discussing what proposals this could be matched with, which would ensure the balance that I also understand is important and which several have also made in the Chamber today, among other things. Mr. Bent Bøgsted. So we are very happy to listen to and discuss these proposals, both in this Chamber and in debates. So thank you very much for the discussion today. I have promised to welcome from New Citizens who were unable to be present in the Chamber and to say that they also support the resolution. So thank you for prioritizing your time, and let's hope that soon there will be a little more hurry in these negotiations in connection with Denmark, so that we can have it. One last thing I must remember to say is to thank the Left for expressing support for this proposal, which we are very pleased about. We were very sorry that we could not stand together last time we had this motion for a resolution in the Assembly, but since then the party has announced that it will be supported, at the latest at its national meeting and reproduced in the Chamber today. So thank you to the Left for standing side by side with us on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126125349	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126125404	The debate is open. It is first the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126125503	Thank you for the floor. The citizens' proposal, which we are discussing today, suggests that it should be easier and more attractive to come to Denmark. It is a broad proposal in which it is proposed both to extend the quota refugee scheme, to introduce the possibility of seeking asylum at embassies and consulates, to phase out exit centres and to abolish the principle that one only has the right to protection in Denmark as long as one has been persecuted in one's own country. I am far from agreeing with everything, but I would like to start by saying that I actually very much agree with the proposers that a new approach to the asylum system is needed. The existing asylum system has failed. It is inhumane, it is unfair and it does not protect the most vulnerable. In fact, I think that in the comments on the motion for a resolution there are several wordings in which I can easily see myself. It is wording that is about the diagnosis, but one thing is to agree with the diagnosis. I don't agree with the medicine. For example, the authors of the citizens' proposal propose that applications for asylum should be accepted at the Danish Embassy abroad. I don't think it seems well thought out. I do not think it seems well thought out in relation to what it would really mean for our society if we, for example, were to do so. allowed the many, many refugees who are currently in Turkey to go to the Danish embassy in Ankara and knock on the door and seek asylum in Denmark. For the truth is, unfortunately, that we cannot accept all people who are on the run or who seek a better life for themselves and their families, no matter how much understanding one has of the individual's situation. As a government and I will also say as a Parliament we have a responsibility to maintain the cohesion of our society, and we have a responsibility to think about our economy and our future. Taking responsibility for Danish society and taking that responsibility seriously doesn't mean that we should take responsibility for that, and I think Denmark actually does. It's about how we best manage that responsibility. It is about how we can help as many people as possible, while at the same time we have immigration to Denmark under control. At least that's the government's approach. That is why the government is also working for a new and fairer asylum system. One of many elements of the asylum system we are working for is to help more and better in the neighbourhood. There are, for example: an urgent situation in and around Afghanistan, which the international community should take more seriously. We think we should focus on that. That is where the vast majority of the world's refugees are, and that is where the money goes the longest. That is why, this year, in 2021, we have set aside 350 million. kr. more than last year to e.g. to help refugees in the neighbourhood, and next year we are planning to allocate a further 400 million. kr. From development aid to, among other things, development aid. refugees in the neighbourhood. The ambition is to reach a total of 3.5 billion. kr. further towards 2025 for migration, neighbourhoods and fragile states. Finally, an important element in creating a new asylum system is that we should once and for all remove the incentive to buy a ticket from the traffickers in the rubber boat across the Mediterranean. This is best achieved by moving asylum procedures outside the EU and outside Schengen borders. In this way, you can break the irregular migration flow and focus on help in the neighbourhoods. By doing so, Denmark will also have the opportunity to take more quota refugees, because it is actually the Government's wish that the refugees who are going to Denmark and we believe that refugees to Denmark should come here controlled through resettlement, through the UN quota refugee system. It should gradually become the primary route to obtaining protection in Denmark rather than spontaneous asylum. We have been saying for a long time that we believe that Denmark should accept quota refugees as long as we can maintain the right balance between the number of refugees that Denmark receives together and our ability to integrate those that are already here. We must maintain positive progress, but this requires us to be able to keep up with it. The number of spontaneous asylum seekers will, of course, play a role in this. The proposal also states that the current rules hamper the willingness to integrate and, moreover, slow down the positive progress, because a signal is sent that refugees should never feel welcome. I do not agree with that. I believe that we should be honest with people who come here and tell them that Denmark likes to provide protection to people who need protection, that we would very much like them to become part of Danish society, that we actually expect them to contribute, but also that a stay as a refugee in Denmark is based on a temporary residence permit. This is, moreover, a fundamental condition of the asylum system, and the principle of temporaryity is firmly established. The proposal sets out to move in the opposite direction. It is proposed that exit centres and incentives should be phased out for those who have been refused asylum. I can say very clearly that we do not intend to change that. We must do what we can to get people to go home if they do not have a legal stay in Denmark. And if you do not participate in your return and do not go home, you may be subject to an obligation to check at an exit centre. We do this partly in order to motivate the individual to go home, partly in order to know where foreigners who are not legally resident in Denmark are, but also because it must be the case that the legitimacy of the asylum system is that those who are then refused leave too. That's gotta be it. When, among other things, rejected asylum seekers are accommodated at an exit centre, it is also to send a clear signal, and then it is important to remember that they actually have the opportunity to go home and that they can get a bag of money if they participate. That would be the best thing for everyone, because they don't have a future in this country. Exceptionally, an alien who has been refused asylum may be granted a temporary residence permit if they have been expelled. Access to such a residence permit is limited, very limited. It is a prerequisite that we have actually contributed to the broadcast for a period of 18 months in a row and that the broadcast is really hopeless. And in such a situation, I think it is quite fair and reasonable that we should have such a rule. But that presupposes that the foreigner himself has not put himself in that position. It is not intended that rejected asylum seekers or others without legal residence should be able to work against a stay in Denmark. So, to sum up: I understand and share the wish that we in Denmark should have a more humane asylum policy, and indeed I also share the diagnosis far along the way that is being made in the resolution, but to open up embassy applications and to relax policy towards rejected asylum seekers, we are not in favour, nor are we in favour of moving away from the fact that temporaryity is the starting point of asylum policy. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, but we look forward, of course, to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130237	Thank you, Minister. There is one brief comment from Carl Valentin from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130244	Thank you. The Minister talks a lot about how to ensure a better asylum system and that he does not want it to rely so much on spontaneous asylum, but more on quota refugee schemes, etc. I very much agree with that and we very much agree with the SF. That is why I would like to refer to some of what is in this citizens' proposal, which I actually think is quite reasonable, namely that they are proposing that Denmark should take 500 quota refugees a year, a relatively small number in my optics. Could it not be imagined that the Minister now thinks this is the way our asylum system should go, that he would then comply with this part of the proposal and ensure that Denmark takes 500 quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130328	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130332	Thank you for the question. After all, this year we have decided to take 200 quota refugees. It is mainly people from Burundi and Congo who are in refugee camps in Rwanda, and we have, as is also stated in the paper of understanding, attached importance to women and children and have added that they can also be sexual minorities. The figure from last year was also 200, and the figure for 2022 we will decide mid-year, as the law says, and it says in the law: up to 500. So in this way the figure is running roughly with what is in this motion for a resolution. However, we have not decided on the number of quota refugees from next year. However, I also think it is part of the history of quota refugees in 2021 that, in addition to the 200 Rwandan refugees, we have also decided in a very broad majority to evacuate 1,100 people, I think we are up on Afghanistan. It is also people who have not arrived here spontaneously, but who we have decided with open eyes to fly to Denmark. It is not quota refugees, but it is nevertheless an integration task for the municipalities that have the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130439	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130443	Of course, it also matters when you take someone in another situation. I fully agree with that. But if you now want to promote the approach of using the quota refugee system, is it not obvious to use it a little more offensively, even when the Minister said in his speech earlier that the number of spontaneous asylum seekers is absolutely crucial in relation to how many quota refugees you are taking? Now the number we have taken with spontaneous asylum has been very low in recent years. Is it not now that we have to say that we are accepting these 500 or so a relatively small number?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130512	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130515	As I also said in my speech, we consider that we are in the process of redeploying Danish refugee policy from primarily based on spontaneous asylum applications and allowing quota refugees to be the main access point. I understand that the SF will use the quota refugee instrument more offensively to make that change. We are probably a little more cautious about how much we turn up the quota refugee screw before we have got the spontaneous asylum screw turned down further, and it is a question of how far we believe the integration efforts in Denmark have come. But that is the change we are in the process of doing. We are in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130554	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130559	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister about the part of this citizens' proposal which deals with exit centres and incentives. After all, we have a lot of old reports and parliamentary answers from previous ministers which show that these incentives do not work. It doesn't make people leave the country. The only thing it does is it destroys people. That is why I think that part of the citizens' proposal is very sensible, that is to say that we are phasing out these incentives and giving people a real life on the run. I just want to ask the Minister if he really believes that these motivational measures are doing anything good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130644	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130647	But they're not on the run. That is the crux of the matter. They have been denied asylum and have been told that now you have to leave Denmark, and then they do not. Then I think it's fair to say that you don't get a general home in Birkerød and access to the cash benefits system or a work permit. Then the Danish welfare state is not open, because you have no legal residence in Denmark. That's gotta be it. Then, of course, we can say that you must go to sleep under the bridges, as you do in some other European countries, but that is not how I think it should be. So we have said that there is accommodation and obligation to stay there and that we would like to know where you are, so that if we actually manage to get you on a plane, then do not have to look for you in all corners of Denmark. I think that makes sense. It is clear that the return policy cannot consist only of one element, and we have really taken many initiatives on the return policy over the past year and also reduced the number of rejected asylum seekers quite considerably. But I think that is partly because we have these measures in the drawer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130751	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130754	The Minister knows just as well as I do that right now there are some people from Syria sitting in our exit centres, where it is absolutely impossible to reach an agreement with Syria to send them back. It's completely out of the question. The Minister knows that as well as I do. Otherwise, at least the government has changed policy, and we would like to know that. The Minister also knows that there is a middle way between what is happening today at our exit centres and what the Minister says about offering people a home. And despite the fact that I believe that people should be provided with accommodation, the Minister should be able to see that what is happening at our exit centres today is not a dignified way of treating other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130832	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130837	In other words, most Syrians who are staying in an exit centre, for example. Kærshovedgård in Midtjylland, is there on tolerated stay. So that means that it is people who have gone through many safe countries, come to Denmark, have sought asylum, have been granted asylum, we opened up the Danish community then they have committed crime, even so serious crime that they have been sentenced to expulsion, and then we are not able to send them out, and I do not think we should, because they risk torture or persecution when they are sent home. This is the primary reason why Syrians are in exit centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130905	The next brief remark is from Mrs Kathrine Ollyday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126130908	Thank you. I would really like to pursue this question of home travel centres. For the group of Syrians that I am interested in, perhaps the group that has not committed crime and is now in a home-travel centre because their assessment of individual asylum in the Refugee Board has been rejected. And then they might get divorced... I just saw a case like this and their grown kids... and they're gonna sit there and chill. A lot of these people were actually in the process of being integrated into Danish society, and it is also a good social business. Many of them had their own CVR number or were employees. In Germany, for example, they have. Just elected this year's apprentice, who this year was a Syrian refugee. Does the government honestly believe that it is a better socio-economic investment to pay DKK 300,000. per Syrian nose in a home travel centre than it is to let those who are integrated and who, if § 26 were still in operation, would be allowed to stay here and thereby also give them room in the Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131014	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131018	I am just saying that the motion for a resolution says that we should phase out exit centres. After all, when the Taliban won power in Kabul, various European countries stopped sending people to Afghanistan for obvious reasons. There I found that in Denmark we had less than 100 Afghans in broadcasting positions. After all, our neighbouring countries, Germany and Sweden, had several thousand. It is because we have a functioning return policy and it is better functioning than in our neighbouring countries. Therefore, there are thousands of people living in our neighbouring countries without any legal basis for residence, without any future in those countries. Who is it really for the benefit of? Then it is true that our system, which is quite zealous and costs DKK 300,000. per of course, the person who is at our exit centres attracts a great deal of attention, because we will then have a specific address to look at. But it is much better for Danish society, and I also think it is much better asylum policy that those who are actually refused are sent out as far as possible. That is the effect of the exit centres, and if we abolish them, we end up, like our neighbouring countries, with thousands of people just wandering around in our society and having no legal basis for residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131129	Here you go, Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131134	I fully acknowledge that this is a very difficult problem. But I really want to ask the next most logical question in this order. Now that we are returning as many Syrians as we are doing, now that some report has apparently estimated that the Damascus area is safe, will it not mean that we are going to open up some more exit centres at some point? And what is the government's position on this? Has it started to talk about the very probable fact that we have to open more exit centres in Denmark to house all these Syrian returnees?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131207	Well, at least I know that this discussion has been going on for a while. But I can also just relate to the fact that when I joined as minister, there were 1,100 people in the deployment position, in other words, rejected asylum seekers. Now there are 850, so the number falls; it does not rise. It's falling, among other things. because we are being sent to some countries that we have had a little harder on in the past and because the return policy is increasingly working, and also because there are plenty of people who accept the increasingly attractive offer to get a bag of money from Danish society and travel home. In relation to Syria, more than 100 people a year have received repatriation aid over the last three years. It's stable high.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131246	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131248	Thank you for the floor, President. Thank you, Minister. Following on from the quota refugee section and the distribution of refugees, I would like to ask the Minister and the government whether they are willing to welcome some of the most vulnerable children and families from the Greek camps. 4,000 vulnerable children and families have been relocated in 13 EU countries last month to Germany. Will Denmark take responsibility and participate in the relocation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131318	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131322	No. So, our quota refugees are being taken through the United Nations quota refugee system, and the ones we have decided to take are then from refugee camps in Rwanda. Fortunately, fortunately, Greece has managed to manage the situation on the islands much better, among other things. on Lesbos, and built new accommodation facilities, and the number of people staying in those camps is now reduced, and all that is positive. What Denmark is helping to do is to enforce the common European border in Greek waters, but we have also helped, for example, with. asylum and other matters in Greece. So it is not because we do not want to help Greece, but we think it is wrong if we start redistributing internally in Europe, because then we just believe that even more people will get into those rubber boats. We want to solve the problems at the root and not by redistributing from the Greek camps.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131416	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131420	Then I would like to ask a follow-up question in relation to the UN recommendation to grant refugee residence permits for a minimum of five years. This will ensure better integration. This will ensure the possibility of getting more labour at a time when Denmark needs labour, qualified labour, in the welfare field and all sorts of other areas. Has the government thought of following the UN's recommendation to give refugees a security with a five-year residence permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131453	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131456	No. The Danish residence permits for refugees have been shorter than 5 years for many, many years, and we see no reason to go up to 5 years. The starting point is that you get a residence permit, and when it is about to expire, the Immigration Authority automatically starts to re-evaluate whether there is a need for continued protection. It is there for most people, and then it is automatically extended. If there is no need for this, it will be denied extension, as it is called, and then it will be sent to the Refugee Board. We're not going to change that system.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131524	Thank you for that, thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The next speaker is thus Mr. Rasmus Stoklund of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126131539	Thank you, President. Fortunately, the electorate has put together a responsible parliament. Alternatively, by supporting the proposal now under discussion, we could inflict irreparable damage on Denmark. If it were adopted, it would be a matter in a few years' time before the Danes could no longer recognize their own country. For many years, several of the citizens' proposals have argued that far more people from the Great Middle East should come to Denmark. The consequences of four decades of failed integration do not make any impression. Most recently they have taken the initiative on this citizens' proposal, and if you are kind, you can say that the intention is sympathetic but ill-thought out. If one considers a less friendly perspective, it can be said that the proposal continues the tradition of several of the contributors and fellow contributors to try to undermine Danish society by wanting to increase immigration from parts of the world where integration all too often fails. It is a fact that today costs the Danish taxpayers 31 billion. kr. per year according to the Ministry of Finance, a fact that has major human consequences in terms of victims of violence, social control, rapes, gang crimes and other things. The campaign against Denmark and the parties that want a responsible immigration policy lead some of the contributors into both national and international media. By Carsten Jensen, for example, said: to Frankfurt Allgemeine Zeitung this summer, that we in the Social Democratic Party accept all those who oppose these ideas and vote for an ethnically pure Denmark. We are therefore openly accused of being racists who want an ethnically pure Denmark. This is a serious accusation and, of course, it's a lie. Not a single party member of mine dreams of it. Also at home Carsten Jensen lets his bile flow over ordinary people who do not share his opinions. In 2011 Danish People's Party voters could read in Politiken as Pia Kjærsgaard's muddy sect of creepy basement people. And although it is not my job to defend parties in the right-hand Chamber, it is also a violent and unreasonable accusation to claim that the extreme right in Denmark is a veritable think tank when it comes to devising new methods of tormenting the heart and hope out of distressed people. One of the proposals in B 20 is to allow the world's refugees to seek asylum in Denmark by entering a Danish embassy. The politicians will probably see great prospects in that way in order to secure us many new fellow citizens. In Turkey, for example, there are several million Syrians today. Is the idea really that they should be able to step up at the Danish Embassy in Ankara to seek asylum and then set a course for Denmark? Thousands of immigrants have come to Denmark over the years, and thousands have become a positive contribution: they work and pay taxes, raise their children and wish Denmark well. I personally know countless of them, and they are a gain for the community. Unfortunately, however, too many people have not settled in. Allow me to give a few examples from the latest edition of • Immigrants in Denmark • from Denmark statistics. If you look at violent crimes, the over-representation here is quite massive. Descendants from Somalia peak with an over-representation of 637%. If you look at public support, it doesn't go well either. I quote from page 9: "Both men and women are immigrants originating in Syria, Somalia, Lebanon and Iraq, with the highest shares of public support. For women, at least seven out of ten from Syria, Somalia, Lebanon and Iraq are on public support. B 20 has the potential to inflict great damage on Denmark, and I am therefore pleased that a majority in the Danish Parliament is watching over a responsible immigration policy. At the same time, I believe that the completely blind spot of the proposal is that it is primarily focused on getting people to Denmark. The vast majority of the world's more than 80 million refugees are in the vicinity, and if instead of spending large sums of money on paying transfer income, interpreters, trials, prison places, integration projects, crisis centres Danish education and much more, we could really help a lot of people in the world. They are people who need at least as much help, but do not have the resources and economics to set their course towards Denmark, people who need at least as much help, but are not young men with physical strength to cope with the flight, people who need at least as much help, but do not have big facebook campaigns organized by well-meaning writer and high school rectors or get long features on Go' Evening Denmark's soft sofas. In conclusion, I would like to say once again to you who will now claim that I am cutting everyone over a comb: No, I could never dream of that. All the foreigners who have come to Denmark and contribute positively are welcome and good for our society. It's not you I'm talking about when I'm talking about integration issues. On the other hand, I am talking about those who have not taken Denmark into account. Social democracy cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132012	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132017	Thank you. I can hear that there are several elements in the proposal, as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund does not like and thinks are ill-thought out. I think that is fair enough. Nor will the SF support this as it stands. But at the same time, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, that some of these people who have tabled the proposal have done one, I think, that has been said for many years to undermine Danish society. Is it not a very violent accusation to make to some people who actually have some very good intentions with this proposal here? Well, we're having a debate right now, where Mr. Simpson... Rasmus Stoklund himself highlights examples where social democracy is attacked for having some motives that they do not have at all. Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is not a little guilty of the same thing when he accuses these people of this, despite the fact that they are actually just trying to create a debate on how to create a humanist and solidarity refugee system?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132114	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132115	No, I am replying again to the strings of impenetrable accusations and allegations that have flown through the debate as long as I can remember, and have come from among other things. Some of the authors of this proposal. It's not the Social Democratic Party that's started this smear campaign, it's some of these Posters and Co-Potters. This proposal which, if adopted, could destroy Denmark within a few years or decades, seems to me to be a serious matter. And I also think it speaks for itself when you go out into the world and give interviews to other media and tell about how downright a country Denmark is, despite the fact that on all parameters we are actually a very generous country. One is treated very well as a refugee in Denmark, and that is probably why many people cross the borders of countless safe countries before trying to seek asylum in Denmark. In other words, I believe that the statements made by many of the co-authors over time, the quotations that anyone can find in newspaper articles, etc. Carl Valentin with specific references speaks for himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132221	Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132223	Well, I do not need specific references, because I am quite convinced that some problematic things have been said, but it is also the case that you cannot wash yourself in other people's filth and that it is a little bit, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund is trying to do this. He himself makes some violent accusations and says that these people will undermine Danish society, and more than suggests that it is actually what they are trying to do, and his excuse for doing so is that they started. I think that is a problem and I do not think it is necessary for a good democratic debate, whatever one might think of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132252	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132254	If this citizen's proposal were to come true, the consequence would be that Denmark was destroyed. In Denmark, a few years ago, we saw the first example of a so-called balcony girl, that is, a woman who gets thrown off a balcony because you have to make it look like a suicide, and you do it because he has violated the honour of the family. In some of the countries with which we usually compare, such crimes are extremely difficult to investigate and solve in some places even give up. I have, among other things. heard in quotes from Swedish police officers. There are also a large number of areas in Sweden where the police in Sweden cannot operate at all. In the latest inventory I saw it was in the vicinity of 50 areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132330	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132335	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, fortunately we now have a very good and strong effort against what is called negative social control and honour killings in Denmark. So in Denmark, fortunately, we can, I would say, investigate these things. Actually, that was something else I wanted to ask you. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund says it will destroy Denmark if this citizen's proposal goes through. It says in the citizens' proposal that we should take 500 quota refugees, and Denmark has practiced this until 2016. Was Denmark destroyed/downgraded?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132411	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132413	I would not have used the term to destroy Denmark if it were the only one in this proposal, because then it would of course be a harmful and problematic proposal in itself, since I think we have good legislation in this area. But this proposal is not the only one. I think that the most problematic thing in this proposal is to reinstate the possibility of seeking asylum in embassies. It is, of course, the direct route to Denmark being overflowed by refugees and immigrants from the Middle East. And it is clear that as soon as the smugglers got wind of this opportunity, it would, of course, be shamelessly exploited, to an extreme extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132449	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132451	Now I know that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is very concerned about the place he calls the Great Middle East. There aren't that many other people but Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund, who knows where it is, but I know he's very concerned about it. What I'm very concerned about, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, is that Denmark is taking quota refugees again, and that is why I am trying to ask: is there any part of this proposal that we can agree on? 'Cause I can hear what, sir. Rasmus Stoklund disagrees. But is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund agrees that it would be sensible if Denmark today took a higher share of quota refugees? The rapporteur himself said in his speech that if we were to spend the money outside Denmark, they would do better, and that is, of course, to take more quota refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132528	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132530	We are already taking quota refugees. In addition, I am sorry that Mrs Rosa Lund is not familiar with the concept of the Great Middle East from anyone other than me. It is my Danish translation of the Greater Middle East, and dear child has many names, but it covers the Muslim world roughly, or if Mrs Rosa Lund wants it a little more concrete geographically, it is a belt that starts across North Africa and then moves across the Middle East and down the Horn of Africa. This is the case in broad terms, and then, depending on temperament, you can bring Afghanistan and Pakistan with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132606	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132610	I just got blown back a little by this geography class. But I'm a long way along the way glad that we're actually starting to look into what this citizen's proposal is all about. I also find it striking that the rapporteur is using his speaking time on Denmark's finest platform for personal attacks, rather than taking a concrete view of what this proposal is about. I also understand that the rapporteur says that Denmark is already taking quota refugees today, but he is moving on very quickly to geography class. But then let me ask you something about quota refugees. There is, of course, an inherent logic in the policy of government and social democracy in that when asylum applications or asylum policy are externalised, as you do, for example. If we talk about a reception centre in Rwanda, we are, of course, concerned that the quota refugee system should work. Then we would also go where we in the Radical Left would like to go, where there are fewer spontaneous asylum seekers, fewer smugglers and more quota refugees. So how do the rapporteur, the Social Democrats and the government, view working constructively in increasing the number of quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132716	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132717	First of all, I do not think it is true that I did not speak on the substance of the proposal, because I really think I had a rather large paragraph which dealt with the most serious part of the content in my opinion. I admit that there may be other serious elements that I have overlooked, which may also be very, very dangerous for Denmark, but what I consider to be the most dangerous is that the proposal for an asylum application in embassies which could really be problematic and which we have not had since 2002. In addition, when it comes to quota refugees, we are in favour of that being the way to take refugees in the Western world, because in this way we are sure that those who come are actually refugees. It's the United Nations that's the citizen of it. In addition, it is socially fair to understand that then it is not, what should be said, a predominance of young men with physical strength and money who can come to the Western world, but then it could be women and children and families without good economics, that is, there is no wealthy. After all, we believe that there should be a balance in it, and therefore the prerequisite for taking significantly more quota refugees is clearly a reception centre where we can control the influx to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132823	Here you go, Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132826	Somewhere the idea that you should be able to apply for asylum at a Danish embassy is very similar to this externalisation. I completely agree that we in the Radical Left do not think that this is the way to go, and that time has run out of this part of the proposal. However, when the government itself believes that a reception centre is the way forward, one could also say that one could land it somewhere in the middle, where we say: we are setting up reception centres outside Europe's borders, where we are dealing with asylum applications, and from there we are distributing refugees throughout Europe. Would the Social Democrats not be able to agree to that idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132859	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132905	I am most sensitive to the fact that without any controversy I am sincerely pleased to hear that the Radical Left is not in favour of seeking asylum in embassies. I think that is a good thing. It is clear that if you make a model so that you can suddenly start seeking asylum at all Danish representations in the world, we will become a magnet for the world's asylum seekers and migrants. Of course, the smugglers will quickly guide people to them, and people will also be able to find their own way to them. And it will cause great damage to Denmark and major problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132932	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126132940	Thank you to the rapporteur. I know, of course, that we disagree in this area and what I see as an asylum hell sees the rapporteur and his party as an asylum system that is appropriate for Denmark. Let it be what it is. But the support parties, together with the government by previous financial laws, have set aside money to receive 500 quota refugees. You never took that. Does the rapporteur not think that Denmark, whether it wants a strict or relaxed policy on foreigners, should take more quota refugees than we do today? I mean, was there money set aside by the last Finance Act or was it the last one again? So is it a way to go to take more quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133034	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133037	We are taking a lot of quota refugees in Denmark already, and I certainly do not think that it is time to take more. This is, of course, linked to the rather major integration problems we are facing. This does not alter the fact that I am pleased with the model chosen, in which we have established in legislation that the Minister should assess about the middle of the year every year how things stand with integration and problems in society and how many quota refugees can be taken. I know it is also an overweight of those who are coming now, who do not have the same profile as many of the refugees and migrants who have come to Denmark in recent decades. It is clear that it also increases the chance for integration to be more successful. But to increase the number to more than the already quite high number I am certainly not in favour of, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133120	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133125	Speaking of good integration, I also asked the Minister before about the UN recommendations. We know that when refugees do not have security, when refugees do not get these proper residence permits and one, what can you say, proper life, we have seen that it creates ptsd in the children, and we can see that people get sick of it etc. Again, wherever we stand politically, will the rapporteur recognise that the policy we are pursuing right now can have a negative impact on integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133159	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133203	On the contrary, I believe that it would completely destroy integration if the policy set out in the citizens' proposal were followed. I would also like to say that it will be a little too, what should we say, a duckam-based approach to foreign policy and the problems of integration, if we only assess whether people are stressed or in need, on the basis of whether they are staying here in Denmark. So, the world's refugees are not primarily here in Denmark or Northern Europe; they are staying in all sorts of other places in Bangladesh, in the Sahel region, in South Sudan, in Central America, in all sorts of other places. Those people need and have as much right and right to help as those who get featured in Go' evening Denmark or big facebook campaigns here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133240	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133259	Thank you for the floor. To begin with, I would like to acknowledge that over 50,000 Danes have committed themselves to making today's citizens' proposals and to give us a welcome opportunity to discuss an important subject which is of concern to many people, but which also often separates the waters, and it will probably also be today. Today we are going to deal with the citizens' proposal for a more humane and solidarity refugee policy in Denmark. But a more humane and solidarity-based refugee policy... what does that really mean? Yes, from the proposal we must basically understand that such a policy means that we in Denmark have to accept more quota refugees, that it is made easier to apply for asylum, that we close down our exit centres and that we remove the possibility of depriving refugees of their residence permit. Simply put: that we make it easier to get to Denmark and more attractive to stay. Neither I nor the Left think this is the right way to go, on the contrary. Together with the other bourgeois parties, we in the Left have been the guarantor of a firm but fair foreign policy for years. It was our policy yesterday, it is our policy today, and it is our policy tomorrow. We do not shy away from it because we are of the fundamental conviction that refugee policy is solidarity, humane and fair as it is today. It is humane because we offer real protection to people who are forced to flee because of war, strife and persecution, and not only do we give them access to the common good of society in terms of support, education and health provision. We do that because we think it is right. But our policy must also be solidarity, we must understand. But here we are tempted to ask: 'Fellow solidarity' for whom? Is it solidarity with the country of origin that we make it attractive for refugees to stay rather than return home and rebuild their homeland for lasting peace and stability? We do not think so. Is it solidarity with the next refugee who needs protection that we make it attractive to stay, knowing at the same time that it is limited how many we can help? We do not think so. And is it solidarity with the rest of Danish society that refugees will live in Denmark forever, when we know that it is limited how many refugees and immigrants we can take without the coherence breaking in the middle? We do not think so. On the other hand, we believe that it is only right and proper for refugees who receive asylum in Denmark to return home once peace has settled. We believe this because we see a moral dimension in giving way to the next person and going home when there is no longer a need for protection, yes, that we show solidarity with the next person who should need our protection, and that is why we are also voting against today's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133537	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133543	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think this is the first time we have been debating this House, and I look forward to it. I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who was in charge of it when many of these tightenings were made, has made a turnaround and says today: We may have gone too far. So, the architects behind this asylum hell are now saying that they might have gone too far, but has it given the Left the opportunity to consider whether it is now the right refugee policy we have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133628	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133632	Well, now I'd rather not explain what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen thinks. However, we believe that the tightening up of the refugee policy that we have undertaken is still the right policy to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133646	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133650	Well, I was kind of hoping that now, when Mr. Thompson... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is in charge of the Left, so would see that you took just a few steps back in relation to the very violent inhumane refugee policy that the Left has led with the Danish People's Party and other parties in here. So I would like to take this opportunity to ask the rapporteur just now about quota refugees: does the Left believe that we should take at least 500 quota refugees, to whom we are committed internationally?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133730	Well, we'd really like to welcome quota refugees. We have not put a figure on it, but as the situation is now, we do not think we have the opportunity to do so. However, we believe that this is the right way to go, and that is also why we have introduced the austerity measures: to put an end to spontaneous asylum seekers, so that we can welcome quota refugees and help in nearby areas. That is our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133754	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133800	After all, it has its own beauty when Mrs Anne Rasmussen says that the Left is the guarantor of a firm and fair foreign policy and has been it all the way through. It is then surprising that they are voting in favour of an impeachment case against Mrs Inger Løjberg, who, after all, was a minister in the same government for many years. This cannot be said to be an expression of fairness. I do not think it has its own contradiction in itself. Well, it's not that, but something else I'd like to ask. If we now make a great deal of sense of having a firm and fair foreign policy, then I would like to ask whether the Left identifies with and supports the immigration policy that we hear in this Chamber by the Danish People's Party and New Citizens' Party, and whether we think it is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133900	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133904	Now I do not basically know their entire immigration policy, but yes, we believe that ours is fair because we help the people who come here and need protection. But we certainly saw that we could help some of the weakest and that we could help many more, and we basically believe that we can if we accept quota refugees and if we help in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133928	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126133932	But the Left is the party that should know the Danish People's Party's Foreign Policy best qua the very close cooperation one has had over many, many years. I know myself, you might say. When I ask the question, it is because it is, in principle, important in terms of what government constellation you want and what parliamentary basis you want to base yourself on if you want to take the Prime Minister's post. Is it New Citizen? Is that the policy they stand for? Are they the ones who have to pull a future bourgeois government around their noses?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134012	I will not be explaining that here on the platform today. We are here to deal with this citizens' proposal for a more humane and solidarity refugee policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134024	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134045	Thank you for the floor. We need to talk about B 20, which claims to be about a more humane and solidarity refugee policy. The content is that it must be easier to get asylum and harder to be sent back to your country of origin. If this resolution were adopted, most of what the Danish People's Party has achieved in the field of foreigners since 2001 would be lost. B 20 is like a voice from the 1990s. One calls on oneself to be humanistic, while one really wants a cynical and hostile policy towards the Danes and the Danish nation. Fortunately, the vast majority of Danes and also most political parties have realised that free immigration is neither human nor solidarity. It is destructive, cynical and dangerous. As a result of the so-called humane and solidarity refugee policy, Sweden is sinking into crime and cultural disintegration. Thanks to the Danish People's Party, we are not there in Denmark today. But we also have problems with non-integrable people who should not be here. It is, of course, a policy that we must have less of, not more of. The policy pursued by B 20 is both inhumane and unsolidarous. The Danish People's Party says a very big no to B 20. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134218	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134228	Thank you very much. The citizens' proposal, which we are discussing today, is a proposal on how to ensure a more humanistic and solidarity-based refugee policy. Parts of the proposal agree with the SF, but there are also some elements in which we believe that the citizens' proposal is wrong in terms of ensuring a humanistic distribution of refugees with protection needs. And it also contains some measures that we fear will create a number of problems in the Danish refugee effort. There are also some issues that the proposal does not really address, but which are necessary to address the challenges. And because this is a single package and you cannot select elements that you like, I can already state that the SF cannot vote in favour of the proposal. More people in the world today are on the run than 10 years ago. Despite fewer starving, despite less poverty in the world, more are on the run and there are increasing numbers of people on the planet. Many of the prospects we have had in the world on the problem of refugees come from the years after World War II, but it was a world where there were much fewer people on the planet, where mobility was considerably less and where we really lived in happy ignorance of what life looked like for most on the other side of the world. It's not like that anymore. There are far more people and more on the run. Problems that trigger flight may still have local causes, but with climate change it has increasingly global causes. The point is that if we are to find a solidarity and humanistic way of dealing with the refugee situation in the year 2021, it is a problem if we look at it in an optics from the post-war years. We have to accept that we cannot accept just as many people who want to come here if we want to avoid major problems in our society. After all, the task does not end with asylum or permanent residence without the rear edge. We know only too well that this phase can also be long and difficult. At the same time, we must ensure a system of asylum solidarity, a humane asylum system, an asylum system that sees refugees as the people they are people who, whether they are entitled to asylum or not, have fled many thousands of kilometres on a hard and dangerous road to try to have a better life in Denmark and in Europe. So for SF it is quite clear that a new asylum system is needed to ensure that we help all those who need it. And that is why I would also like to thank the people behind the citizens' proposal for making their bid for it. How do we help as many as possible, and how do we help them best? That, as I see it, is the task. Unfortunately, however, I do not think that this is what the citizens' proposal proposes for at least not all the measures. If we are to save as many people as possible in order to make the trip on long escape routes in vain, we need to be able to distribute the most protective people through the United Nations quota refugee system. And there is a need for people in the most vulnerable parts of the world to be able to apply for asylum in Denmark from their country of origin and therefore not to go on a long and dangerous journey in order to be judged and may be refused their asylum case. In this way, no one comes to Denmark with false hopes, and at the same time we ensure that the most vulnerable refugees throughout the world can be helped and protected in this country. However, this requires a completely new approach to the quota refugee scheme than has been seen in the last five years. And the SF shares the opinion of the proposers that Denmark should take at least 500 quota refugees. This is, in fact, a matter for us, and we have also regularly pointed that out during the evacuation from Afghanistan at the latest. Allowing more refugees to apply for asylum at embassies around the world, as the proposal suggests, can be an okay idea, but not if Denmark goes alone. In fact, I find it hard to understand if any parties in here can support that idea. This will put enormous pressure on our small country, and what we need are common solutions. In the SF, we are fighting for a common European solution so that asylum can be sought outside Denmark in the vicinity of the countries concerned. The proposal here also deals with the exit centres, and it is SF's view that the conditions at those centres should be good and proper, and we have unfortunately seen many examples of this over the years that they are not. And that is why we are working hard for better conditions at those centres and for families with children not to be accommodated there at all. But to completely remove the exit centres without putting anything in place seems to us to be a problem. I see that I cannot have time to say everything I wanted to say here because we have a little less time for that debate than I thought had been set aside. However, I would just like to conclude by thanking those who have tabled this proposal. I think there are some good elements in it, but there are also some that we from the SF cannot see ourselves in at all. That is why we cannot support the overall proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134730	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The first brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134734	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. After all, I have such an ambivalent relationship when it comes to the support parties, in the area of climate change, because on one side I know that we share vision well along the way, but on the other hand you have the crucial mandates. I remember that when Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard sat with the crucial mandates, it was this inhuman immigration policy, refugee policy. So we used our position with the decisive mandates. I am sorry that the support parties say that there is a majority in the Parliamentary Chamber, but we cannot do anything about it, but we are still holding hands under a government which is leading an asylum hell in Denmark. However, I would now like to ask the rapporteur more specifically about quota refugees, because I know that in a financial agreement money was set aside to bring back 500 quota refugees, but only 200 were picked up. Is it SF's ambition in this Finance Act to ensure that there will be at least 500 quota refugees next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134846	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134850	Yeah, we'd love to. There is no doubt that we think that Denmark should take at least 500 quota refugees and also much more in the future. We think this is the right way to go, and that is why I put questions to the Minister earlier. We certainly think that Denmark should take on more quota refugees, and I am glad that those who have tabled this proposal here also take it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134907	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134911	Thank you, President. Thank you for your answer. That's very clear speech. I also hope that the rapporteur will, hopefully, give a clear speech on this issue. How far will the rapporteur and how far will the party go to say: we want us to take more responsibility in Denmark; we want us to take 500 quota refugees? We have helped destabilise those regions out there where the refugees come from. How far do you want to go? For we know that the government will not So how far will the SF go to say: we must:
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134944	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126134948	I find it difficult to give a specific answer because I do not quite know what the rapporteur is asking. Well, is it whether the SF is going to overthrow the government if you don't get it? We do not have any plans for this at all, but we are going to show the government that we think it is very serious and try to fight it through, as we do, for example. has got the children out of Soulsmark, although it was not the government's policy, just as we have got the government to take back quota refugees after all, even though it was not something that they necessarily thought was extremely important. So we will do what we can to get it through, but it can be difficult to force things through that you do not have a majority in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135018	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135024	Thank you. I am sincerely pleased that there are parts of this proposal which the SF supports. That is why I am a little surprised that the rapporteur says that this is an overall package, because other citizens' proposals have actually been divided up in cooperation with those who have tabled the proposals. This happened with the citizens' proposal that was about getting the children out Soulsmark, and it has just happened with a citizens' proposal that is about better action against hate crimes, where it was the government that could not support it all, but only parts of it. So if you split this up, which parts of the proposal would the SF vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135101	It depends a little on what kind of packages you want to divide it into, because it has quite a lot of different elements. However, I think that the way to introduce asylum applications in embassies and to go alone is problematic, because it will mean that a great many people will come to Denmark and I think we should have common solutions internationally and not go alone. I also think that there are many things that need to be better at the exit centres. We also want to get the families of children out. We can also see models where people are split up into smaller groups around the country, and I know that Enhedslisten's rapporteur also agrees with that. But just so in isolation, closing all the exit centres and not putting anything in the place... that's how I read this proposal... we won't be able to support it immediately either. We are also in favour of the principle of temporary nature. We think that priority should be given to those who have a need for protection, because we cannot help everyone. Nor can we support the inclusion of refugee residence permits at all. So the only thing I think is worded so clearly that we can support it is quota refugee parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135207	Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135209	Thank you for that clarification. In relation to what is said about exit centres, you can see that it says that they must be phased out. Then I think that means that the Folketing has a task to discuss: what can we do instead? One of the things we could do instead of, as I see it, was to make smaller units or actually give people a home. At least that's how we see it in the Enhedslisten. But I have to say, sir. Carl Valentin: I am a little surprised by the fact that the SF supports this temporary nature, because it is quite well documented that some of the things that are most important to integration are temporary.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135244	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135246	But that has been our policy for some time now. I would also think it would be nice if you could just give everyone a permanent stay. I just think it's problematic if you do it because we can't accept everyone. Granting permanent residence to all refugees would mean that some people who otherwise need protection would not be able to do so, because it will be filled with people who do not have a real need for protection, whose homeland is actually safe but who have been permanently resident here. That is why I think it is more humanistic to help those who have a need for protection than to give everyone permanent residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135320	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135326	Thank you. Now I'm trying to see it from a folk socialist perspective. Well, 500 a year, isn't that a little unambitious? Why not 5,000 or 15,000 or 20,000? These are friends we haven't met yet. Why not some more people? When you look at what the policy, which has a broad majority behind it here in the Danish Parliament, is in relation to the asylum system today, we are, of course, on that scale much more generous. So, if you look at how many people have come here as spontaneous asylum seekers and as family members over the past 10 years, it is 6,400 a year; 64,000 people have arrived in the last 10 years. So that means we're kind of a lot more humane than you are. Why not some more? What are these limits? I guess number 501 needs help, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135419	It is clear that you can always say that number 501 also needs help. And we would also like to see more than 500 people accepted, and I hope that we will receive many more in the future, because I agree that we should get away from this spontaneous asylum and that we should distribute refugees in a fairer way. However, I think we have had a strong common demand from the support parties that we should accept 500 per year. And I also think, sometimes at least, that the government seems more responsive to it. So I hope that's the way we can move. I think it would be appropriate for Denmark to accept the 500.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135453	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135456	I'm glad to hear that sir. Carl Valentin also believes that it is unfair in the way it is doing today. And I fully agree that it would be better if we accepted a number of quota refugees and then we did not have this arbitrary spontaneous asylum system. In addition, I also have a question for the speech. There was a phrase saying that you want an asylum system that sees people as the people they are. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135523	This means that, in fact, when we discuss the refugee system, I often experience it, that people are talked about as if they are not real people and that they are just some people who should be out of Denmark as soon as possible. I think that is a problem and I do not think that there is the humanity in our asylum system that these people deserve. In fact, I think that the conditions we are looking at at some of the exit centres are an expression of the lack of humanity, which I think is central to asylum policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135552	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Olldag, the Radical Left. Carl Valentin, I'm just drinking. ) This is not necessary, but it is not prohibited either. Carl Valentin I was just sneeze in my seat. It's not that I'm sick or anything, but I just think it's good style to drink off, so I'm gonna do that. Always. Nice gesture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126135616	Thank you so much. And thank you very much for this citizen's proposal to the authors. I am pleased that so many citizens are responding to how absurdly strict our immigration policy has gradually become in Denmark. That's actually what we see primarily this citizen's proposal as an expression of. For unfortunately, in the political context, it often seems impossible to have a sensible and adult conversation about foreigners without it immediately being about whether you are tight or relaxing. The conflict is given in advance, both on social media, across the middle track, at home in the living room, in the press, and not least here in the Parliamentary Chamber, where foreign policy is very rarely about concrete politics, but only repeats of trench positions to maintain electoral groups. Try to think about if one day we could put aside all the overheated rhetoric and have a fair and proper conversation about how we set up an alien policy based on common sense. We in the Radical Left are seeing this conversation as the citizens are about to be ready for it. I see the claim that the government's tight immigration policy has the support of 80%. of the population crumble, as the effect of all the many tightenings dawns on people and is experienced out in reality. Schoolchildren experience their Syrian classmates disappearing and jobs losing good employees when Syrian families do not get extended their residence permit. Fortunately, there is a strong response to it around the country, where many Danes are fighting for their Syrian friends and colleagues. Thank you so much for that to all of you who are on the barricades for the Syrians. We can see that it works in individual cases, but it should be so in general that recommendations from other countries and from NGOs, which repeatedly state that Syria is not safe, should convince the National Authority to suspend the repatriations. Statistically, however, we can also see that most of the decisions of the Aliens' Board are being reversed in the Refugee Board, but yet these already exposed families need to be hunted down in their lives and reminded in a brutal way that they are here at our mercy. However, in the many cases where the Refugee Board does not reverse the decision, families must then be sent to an exit centre where they sit and cheer on the taxpayer's account for approx. 300,000 kroner. in a year and under motivational conditions, that is, a daily life so unbearable that it can break down anyone. Without the prospect of being able to return to Syria because they believe that it would be far too dangerous for themselves, and because the Danish state has no repatriation agreement with Assad's regime, they sit there, locked in an impossible situation. Then it is that we are reaching this citizens' proposal, because it is precisely here that it is proposed to phase out the exit centres, and we in the Radical Left have also raised a strong criticism of what these conditions are under which the rejected asylum seekers are sitting. When we made the understanding paper, we have ensured that families with children no longer have to sit in, for example. Soulsmark, and we would like to go further and make these conditions at the exit centres even more humane and humane. There we completely endorse the intention of the citizens' proposal, but as long as we have no alternative to these centres, which can be seen in parentheses as not working, because one quarter of all the rejected asylum seekers who are sitting in these centres have disappeared since, for example, since then. Soulsmark opened in 2015. So people simply disappear from there. However, as long as we have no alternative, we cannot see any alternative to the exit centres either. Another part of the proposal is for quota refugees, and there we are 100% in agreement, it is entirely up to and is part of a radical policy that, of course, we need more quota refugees in Denmark, because we agree with the other parties behind the understanding paper that it should be 500 for a start. This is also very similar, we think, to the government's policy of externalising the entire asylum policy, that is. I would like to point out that the Commission is not in a position to take any action on this matter. Then we come to the third proposal here, namely that you can apply for asylum at Danish embassies around. This could be done until 2002, and when it was changed in 2002, the Radical Left actually voted against it. In the meantime, however, we also believe that history and time have run out of that proposal. In a sense, however, it is a slightly light version of our own policy in Radicals, namely that refugees should be received at centres on the extreme border of Europe and then distributed via internal European quota systems to the rest of Europe. So, in a way, it is a national version of our own policy. Now is the time to run away from me, so I can only say that the last part of the proposal we support, and overall, the large overall package, the Radical Left fully supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140128	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The first brief remark is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140132	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. As I also said to the SF rapporteur: I have an ambivalent relationship with the support parties, because we agree on many lines, but you are sitting with the crucial mandates, and I wanted you to use them so that we could have a foreign policy other than that pursued by Pia Kjærsgaard, and that is what Social Democracy is now leading. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that it is possible to send our fellow human beings, our Syrian citizens and refugees home today, because the Radical Left gave mandates to legislation that made it possible for them to now be sent home to torture, to chaos, to the war from which they fled. Of course, the rapporteur himself decides how the rapporteur will respond, but will the rapporteur not, just so that the debate is, as it were, clear, with a 'yes' or 'no' reply, say whether it is not true that it was the Radical Left that laid down mandates for sending our Syrian fellow citizens back today to torture, war and destruction?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140233	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140235	Fortunately, I have a little more time than just to say yes. For we voted in favour of 7, 3 • that is completely correct • back in 2015. But then there was also a sunset clause in that paragraph, so that there was actually a temporary nature built into this law of temporaryity, and when the subsequent bourgeois government then chose to permanently make 7, 3, we actually voted against it having to be permanentized. So yes in the first place, no in the second place, and when the Blue Government then, incidentally, set in with the paradigm shift and made it impossible through a scaling down of § 26 to make integration a parameter when you assess whether Syrians can stay and then make it even more difficult for the acids, we are totally opposed. Because then we're really out on the wrong foot.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140319	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140321	So I hear the rapporteur say that yes, it was with the mandates of the Radical Left. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur that for a few days a story has been running in the press and on the social media that there are Syrian old parents who are sick, who are now going to be sent back to war, destruction and torture. Today they should end up at the exit center, and now you can read on Rahima Abdullah's facebook page that the old poor woman has gone into shock and collapsed, and instead of being accommodated in Soulsmark she is in the hospital. It's happening on your watch. Is the Radical Left going to challenge the government and use its decisive mandates and change this inhumane policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140405	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140407	We often use our mandates to change foreign policy issues. For example, we have lately. Danish children were taken home from Syrian prison camps. That story is totally unhappy and would not have happened if it had not been the case that we had not permanently made 7, 3 and the permanentisation of 7, 3 we voted against under the bourgeois government. We also voted against the fact that integration could not be counted when assessing stays. So I simply do not accept the premise that this is the fault of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140438	Thank you. The next brief remark comes from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140442	I think it is rather paradoxical that the rapporteur should begin his speech by saying that we have an absurdly tight immigration policy and then regret that the debate is always about tighter and more relaxed. But let it go. Does the rapporteur think that integration in Denmark is a good thing when you can read from page 9 of Denmark's latest publication Immigrants in Denmark: Both men and women are immigrants originating in Syria, Somalia, Lebanon and Iraq, who have the highest shares with public support. In the case of women, are at least seven out of ten from Syria, Somalia, Lebanon and Iraq on public breadwinners?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140518	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140521	We all have our sticks, sir. The rapporteur, and I and the Radical Left fully acknowledge that there is this distortion and over-representation in crime statistics. But this isn't a discussion about crime. The rapporteur tends to argue often with crime statistics when discussing foreign policy, and this is one of the pitfalls that I think we often land in this trench war, so that it will be such a whitabulism instead of talking about what we are going to talk about today. We want to talk about that crime and what we do about it, but that is not the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140601	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140604	It is not certain that the victims of the crimes believe that it is a matter of whataboutism? Perhaps the victims find it unpleasant to be subjected to violent crimes. So I'm gonna keep going in the same groove. Now I understand that the rapporteur is interested in crime, so what is the rapporteur's view that the over-representation of violent criminals is quite massive? Descendants of Somali peaks with an over-representation of 637%, you look at descendants from Lebanon, the figure is 600 per cent. in over-representation, and descendants of Syria have an over-representation of 345 per cent. How does the rapporteur feel about integration in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140635	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140637	We recognise that there are integration problems in Denmark. We have never said otherwise. In fact, we often highlight this when things are going well, and we can also point it out when things are going badly. Perhaps the rapporteur should also recognise at times that there are both good and bad stories. Moreover, the rapporteur continues to provide his crime statistics.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140704	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140707	Thank you. I really think the rapporteur's speech was quite nuanced and went down in the elements, so thank you for that. But I also think it is a little paradoxical that you go down into elements which you do not really conclude are radical Left policy, and then you say that you have some kind of policy that reminds you of it and that you will therefore vote in favour of it here. In other words, what would happen if all the parties in here voted according to intentions and according to whether there are some things that remind us of some policy that you have? I can answer that question myself. What would happen was that it would be adopted and then asylum would be sought at embassies and consulates to Denmark, and refugee residence permits could not be withdrawn afterwards. This might mean that hundreds of thousands of people came to Denmark. Does the Radical Left think that this is a good way of working on a citizens' proposal to vote in favour of it if you think that there are some good intentions in it and something that reminds you a little of what you think and that you do not vote for what is the specific content of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140807	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140810	If I had already had the feeling that we could get a majority in favour of this proposal, then I would have gone in and tabled some amendments, just as Enhedslisten's rapporteur also talked about earlier, where we would then be able to pick out elements and in a debate between the first and second readings, for example. could go in and look at how we could implement this, so it made sense. For it is quite clear that we would not agree that asylum could be sought at an embassy, but we will, for example, do so. I'd love to have a reception center. So there are some specific things that would have to be done, and we could also go in and table an amendment. But we also consider that the chance to obtain a majority in favour of the proposal, even if we made an amendment, would be so outrageously small that it would in fact be a little waste of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140856	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140859	Okay, so the reason you're voting for this proposal is because you don't think it's going to get a majority. What if there was a majority, but there was no majority in favour of any amendments and therefore the Radical Left had to vote on whether to adopt it here or not to adopt it here? Would the Radical Left then vote in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140919	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140921	The Radical Left is not voting for this proposal because we expect it not to be adopted. Our reason for voting in favour of this proposal is that we believe that the proposers are right overall. There are so few elements that are outside. For example: We believe that the exit system should be organised, but not phased out, and we believe that refugees should be received outside Denmark's borders. There is a room for negotiation there which we are ready to enter, and that is why we are voting in favour of the overall proposal. It is not because we expect that it will not get a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126140958	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141003	I and the Christian Democrats are fundamentally opposed to temporary residence. I simply think so. If you know the war history of the West, and if you have read Hannah Arendt about having a place in the world, which I know, since we have often discussed it in good companies • before Hannah Arendt got American citizenship in 1954, she did not feel that she had any place in the world, and I think that is very, very telling and if one has read it, one cannot fundamentally be in favour of temporaryity. I didn't think the Radical Left was. When Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said: we have been too naive about the whole Syria problem, which we have been aware of, why on earth did I and my party stand all alone on the bridge when we had to make the agreement on the Afghan interpreters, in which it says that it is a temporary residence permit of two years that cannot be extended?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141110	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141112	Now, sir. After all, Jens Rohde is out in the outer chambers of the special law or small hooks. And it is absolutely right that we have had to recognise a temporary nature because it was the agreement on the repatriation of Afghan interpreters and Afghan staff who worked for us. So it was actually a foreign policy agreement. Therein lies the compromise that, in order to get the widest possible majority across the middle and to work together across the Danish Parliament nationally, to say that there is a broad majority to take these people and take them to Denmark, we have to put a temporary nature into that special law. However, the people from Afghanistan who sit around reception centres are all in the process of seeking asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141202	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141204	No, Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday. I was in those negotiations with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs myself. Yes, I was! Kathrine On Saturday You were. I'm sorry). After all, I know that, even if you can feel divided. I kept taking it up in the negotiations, and there I asked the Radical Left why there was the temporary nature of the people who, in their work for Denmark, have chosen Denmark for a temporary stay without any possibility of extension. Why could the Radical Left not support me in my arguments? You wouldn't. So now I ask here why.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141245	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141247	To obtain the widest possible majority. I only regret that the number of seats of the Christian Democrats does not give rise to the idea of getting on that wagon in those negotiations. That being said, it has always been in the back of the head that all of these people who have been evacuated from Afghanistan can seek asylum and are in full swing with it and will certainly all be given convention status after 7.1.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141311	Thank you very much to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141320	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I am very grateful to all those people who have signed this citizens' proposal. And I would like to, because sometimes it may feel a bit like a lonely position we have in the Enhedslisten, when we are constantly standing in this Parliament hall defending a solidarity and humane foreign policy. I believe that the fight for another foreign policy is highly topical and more necessary than ever before. For over the past many years we have seen how the system in Denmark has become increasingly hostile to people on the run. In the old days, in the good old days, the attitude was that as a country, as Denmark, we helped where we could get to it; that we took care of those who needed and showed the way for other countries, in terms of how to act internationally. Today the position is that if we just close our eyes and put up some barbed wire, we do not really have to do anything. Then it can just be up to the others, especially the ones I think at least that is often the answer we hear from the Social Democratic Party when you try to disclaim responsibility, because when Denmark takes part in wars, it is clear that the neighbors will then have to clean up after us. I think that is such a rather strange policy. It is the responsibility of the neighbourhoods all of a sudden that we are going to war. I do not think we can be familiar with this, plus the fact that I also think it is worth paying some attention to the fact that the areas around us are full. There can be no more refugees in Pakistan. There can be no refugees in Libya. And that is why it is simply to stick people in the eye when you keep saying that we can solve this in the vicinity. We can't, not at all. At least we don't think so in the Enhedslisten. We believe that, as one of the richest countries in the world, we must take responsibility for the conflicts that we are helping to create. We cannot turn a blind eye and let people drown in the Mediterranean or freeze to death on the border with Poland. There are people who are currently dying directly as a result of the policy that is being adopted in this Chamber and that is being adopted in the European Union. This citizens' proposal concerns several areas in which I think it is really important that we change. First of all: Denmark must of course take more quota refugees than we are taking today. Today, as we have also said in the debate, although money is being set aside to take hundreds of quota refugees, the government does not take much anyway, and that is because Mrs Inger Købberg has arranged the law in such a way that it alone is the Minister's authority to decide how many quota refugees are to be taken. In other words, no matter how much money we place on the Finance Act, it is the Minister's decision how many quota refugees are to be taken. Firstly, I find this problematic and, secondly, a little undemocratic. The citizens' proposal here suggests that we should at least take 500 quota refugees a year, just as we did in 2016. We can fully support this in the Enhedslisten and, as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, who also mentioned this, I even think it is a rather modest wish. We believe in the Enhedslisten that we can now take 2 000 quota refugees. At the same time, we are currently in the absurd situation, which is very special, in relation to the Syrian refugees, namely that the government no longer believes that they have a need for protection. I am in favour of the government pushing the Refugee Board before it and saying that it is a board decision, but what is behind it is politically adopted, namely Article 7 (7). 3. War still exists in Syria, and it is still the same dictator who controls the country as when these people fled Syria. Nevertheless, it is considered that it is not dangerous to return, nor, even though Amnesty International and other organisations in Syria are documenting something else. Since we as a country do not cooperate with dictators, this means that all the Syrians who are being deprived of their residence permit are being sent to exit centres where they can be allowed to sit for years and rot under what is called motivational measures, which this citizens' proposal is fortunately proposing to abolish. We in the Enhedslist fully agree with the authors of the citizens' proposal that the system we have today should be changed. Unfortunately, I do not really have any more time, but I could talk about this citizens' proposal for a very long time, and I am very much looking forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141837	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141840	Thank you to my good colleague Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. As I also said to the other supporting parties, we share the vision. I have no doubt for a second about where Mrs. Rosa Lund's heart is in this case. But I'm gonna take it up to party level. Enhedslisten says: We will not accept Mrs Inger Løjberg's policy on foreigners before an election. Now it has been two years since we have won an election in which a great many minority votes were obtained. In fact, 25-30 per cent went. Let's go. But people are still rotting in our asylum hell at the exit centers. Our Syrian fellow citizens are still being thrown home. We still have ptsd with kids in these centers. In short, we still have the foreign policy of Inger Løjberg and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Then I just have to ask straight like that, because they say that there is a majority, but there is nothing you can do. Can the rapporteur not say clearly: OK, there is a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly, you cannot do anything, but you will not overturn a government for those reasons?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126141950	I simply do not agree that we can do nothing. Nor do I agree that Mrs Inger Løjberg's policy is directly the one that exists today. Of course, there are measures that are still there, unfortunately, among others. Some of the things this citizen's proposal brings up. But I think, sir. Sikandar Siddique sometimes forgets it, which is it means quite a lot to those people, and I think that actually has a value. I want the policy to look different, and we then work in the Enhedslisten every day to ensure that foreign policy changes in a more united and humane direction. We go on a case-by-case basis, jumping from tue to tue, and I actually think that Mr. Sikandar Siddique sometimes forgets that we also sometimes succeed in things. And I don't think you should overwhelm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142048	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142051	I commended my colleague because I know where my colleague is in this. But Mrs Inger Løjberg and the Danish People's Party got 114 tightenings through. Hand on heart: How many have you had rolled back after 2 years? And you are the parliamentary basis. A human rights mastodont and author named Carsten Jensen said here the other day about the support parties that they have reduced themselves to being shadow parties. I just need to hear something: The Danish People's Party was hammering good political craftsmen and used their mandates to get their tightening through. When do we see Enhedslisten use his crucial mandates to roll back these tightenings?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142135	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142137	I think that Mr. Sikandar Siddique, whom I have received this question from many times, forgets something in his count of mandates. Because the problem is, sir. Sikandar Siddique, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration gets its majority for its foreign policy elsewhere in the saddle than where I sit, where Mrs Kathrine Oldag sits, and where Mr. Carl Valentin's sitting. That's a problem. I agree with that. It's a huge problem. I strongly disagree with the policy of social democracy, and I regret that they have turned right here. I am so glad that outside Christiansborg there are Social Democrats who every day press the Minister to make a different policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142221	Thank you. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142231	Thank you, President. It may not come as a great surprise that we do not support this proposal. In fact, we think that the Danish immigration policy is already, having said that, there are tactics in the proposal here, which we basically support. When it comes to quota refugees, we think that this is the only way to receive refugees. Having said that, when it is the case that so many spontaneous refugees are coming here, as they are still doing too many, we think that we are still having a great integration burden with the very, very many people who came here during the refugee crisis, and which we basically believe should go home again, then the time is certainly not right at all to take quota refugees. You can also look at the over a thousand people we have helped here from Afghanistan. We supported this, so that is why we indirectly support a form of help to get people to Denmark. But to take additional quota refugees on top of the hat we do not believe that we will be responsible at this stage. Then there is part of the proposal that you should be able to submit your application for asylum at a Danish embassy. That's what you could do, 30 years ago around. I find it difficult to find words about how much we are against that proposal. If you just take our embassy in Ankara, Turkey: if it opened up to spontaneous asylum seekers, and I am aware of over 3 million Syrian refugees in Turkey, then many of the Syrian refugees would probably come to the Danish embassy and seek asylum, well and mark because the Danish embassy would be the only EU embassy where it would actually be possible. Now, fortunately, I had the opportunity to speak to the proposers in committee, I think it was yesterday, and they clarified it so slightly and said that they thought this was something that all EU embassies should do, and therefore Denmark would not come under similar pressure. But even if 3 million Syrian refugees were distributed across all the EU embassies, I would think it was a really, really bad idea. But it was certainly good of them to come to the committee so that we could ask some questions too. They cannot do that in this Chamber, so I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. So this is a very fine proposal, but we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142450	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142455	Thank you. I think that Mr. Marcus Knuth was told that there were many spontaneous asylum seekers and too many in the eyes of Conservatives, but right now, there are historically few spontaneously coming to Denmark. So how far do we have to go down the number of spontaneous asylum seekers before Mr. Can Marcus Knuth really support the quota refugee scheme, which is actually being said about a lot of nice things from the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142523	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142524	Well, it's a bigger picture. One thing, then, is the number of asylum seekers, and a few thousand, as I remember, are still coming away every year. Then it may well be that 20,000 came in 2015, but that is not the starting point, that is how it should be. Ideally nobody came, and then we could take a majority decision here in the Parliamentary Assembly, which then supported a number of quota refugees. In addition, we have said from the Conservatives that we believe that on the day that it is reopened or that the government has done so, but in relation to the day that we should support it, priority must be given, for example. persecuted Christians and other minorities. However, to answer the rapporteur, it is a comprehensive picture of the overall pressure on asylum, but also of how things are going with the integration task in Denmark, and everything else can be said that things are not going very well right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142607	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142610	If we now want to promote the quota refugee scheme in general and also have other countries taking a greater share of responsibility and taking more quota refugees, could it not also be a way to ensure fewer spontaneous asylum seekers, to take more quota refugees and also to use it as an example to pressure other countries to do the same? Because we really have a common basic view, I can hear, in that we would rather have quota refugees than we would like spontaneous asylum seekers. So couldn't it be a way to go for the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142638	I think in the real world, if we suddenly started taking 500 or 1,000, it wouldn't solve it. In fact, I believe that Norway, if I remember correctly, will take 4 000, and that has not solved the world's refugee problems at all. However, if we manage the external borders of Europe and, fortunately, there are some steps in that direction, and the spontaneous number of asylums is falling dramatically and the challenges of integration in Denmark are beginning to improve, we will of course be open to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142704	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142708	Thank you so much. I am actually very positive about the rapporteur's relatively soft rapporteur's speech and positive approach; it must be the weekend that is at hand and all that. In relation to the quota system and to the asylum seekers, my question actually goes a little the same, because Conservatives must have made up how many spontaneous asylum seekers must come and over how many years before we can start turning up the quota system. Because it is true that the quota system is the good way forward. In 2020, 1.500 spontaneous asylum seekers came to Denmark, as much as the rapporteur explained. And it is absolutely true that back in 2015 we had a record year of 18,000. So we have so much curbed spontaneous asylum over a long period of time, and the last many years have been between 1,000 and 2 000. So what's the number we're going down on? And for how long do we have to be on that number before we can start opening up the quota system?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142809	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142811	Thank you. I am sorry if I repeat myself a little, but it is, of course, a general picture of both how the 34 000 people are being repatriated, I think it was that came here from Syria during the refugee crisis, including family reunification, how the overall integration effort is going, how things are going in Vollsmose, how things are going in various other areas, how things are going in schools, but also how high the figure is for spontaneous asylum. And that is why I cannot get any closer, but if it is the opinion of this Parliament that 500 quota refugees are to come, then we cannot at the same time take everything else, whether it is 2,000, 1,000 or 1,500 spontaneous asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142852	Here you go, Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142854	I am a little surprised that we have to send 34,000 Syrians home, because the vast majority of them are here on § 7 paragraph. 1, or § 7, para. 2, i.e. are individually persecuted and must be protected under the Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on Refugees. So would Conservatives like to send home 34,000 Syrians who are here on the convention paragraph?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142920	Well, we believe, as a starting point, that when there is peace and it is possible to return to your homeland, you must of course do so, but it is not a political decision here. So it is all the other things our foreign authorities, and then the Refugee Board, that make that decision. And as soon as it's possible to get people back, of course they have to go back. And then it is true that some of those who have the residence permit are not yet in that category, but of course we hope that this will be possible over time, because we do not believe that asylum should be the way to permanent residence and then citizenship. After all, Asylum is temporary until you can return to your homeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142952	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126142955	Thank you to the rapporteur. As I have said to the other rapporteur, we are in very different places, and it is fair enough that it is democracy. But I would also like to ask the rapporteur about these incentives. Wherever there is a relaxed or tight policy on foreigners, the rapporteur must confirm to me that they are not motivational. People are rotting in these exit centers that look like an 1840 mental hospital like a horror movie from the United States. Clearly, these motivational measures are not working. I think the rapporteur can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143046	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143048	No, I can't. Now, I don't know what kind of horror movie this is from the United States, like Mr. Sikandar Siddique refers to, but when I've been out visiting some of these centres, I don't think that's how it is. And everything else is equal: when you are at an exit centre, it is because you do not have a legal stay in Denmark because our authorities consider that you should go home and that it is reasonable that you should go home. And then it's not supposed to be some kind of bathing vacation. And those who contribute to their own return journey, everything else goes somewhere better than those who oppose it, or those who, for example, do. are criminals and sit at Kærshovedgård. So I actually think the facilities that are there are excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143125	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143127	Okay, but then I can just say that the many experts working in this area have a radically different attitude. For example: Refugees Welcome has made two reports that clearly and clearly prove that it is by no means motivating to do it like that. The reason I'm asking this question is that no matter where you are tight or relaxed, can we not agree that in our democratic Denmark, in our rule of law, we must of course have human relations?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143201	With all due respect, sir. Sikandar Siddique: A report by Refugees Welcome, how objective do you think it is? So, unfortunately, I don't give much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143213	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143221	Today we are debating a citizens' proposal for a more humane and solidarity refugee policy. And I am actually pleased to be New Citizens' rapporteur because I believe that we have Parliament's most humane and solidarity policy in this area. Unfortunately, there is no parliamentary majority for a humane and solidarity asylum policy in which access to spontaneous asylum in Denmark is abolished. When you read the citizens' proposal, it is clear that this is not what the proposers mean by a humane and solidarity refugee policy either. Proposers will make it easier to seek asylum by allowing it directly at embassies and consulates. The proposers will phase out exit centres, the proposers we do not include residence permits, and the proposers believe that there are a large number of advantages associated with these measures: no one risks their lives in trying to circumvent Europe's border controls, no one avoids paying people smugglers in expensive sentences to reach Europe, municipalities can match refugees' qualifications with local labour market needs. If this issue were not so deadly, then one would laugh at the naivety of the proposers. It is neither humanism nor solidarity to open Denmark to thousands of migrants who do not share our values, do not comply with our laws and who directly oppose our freedom, democracy and the rule of the people. Nor is it humanistic or solidarity to continue with an asylum system that supports trafficking in human beings and helps the few at the expense of the many. It is by no means humane and an expression of solidarity to continue to inflict great damage on Danish society and to cost the Danish taxpayers a great deal of money. The average annual cost of an asylum seeker who shows up at the Danish border and says asylum is about DKK 300,000. For the same amount, hundreds of African children could be given vital vaccines. On the basis of assessments by the UN coordinator of humanitarian aid, migration expert Morten Lisborg has previously said about the Rohingyas fleeing Myanmar: "It will cost DKK 2.7 billion to help the over 1.2 million people affected by the humanitarian disaster, including some 660,000 refugees in the neighbourhood. The 2.7 billion is roughly equivalent to what it will cost to accommodate approximately 12,000 asylum seekers in Denmark for a year. ▪ We could therefore help many more people fleeing for much less money if we were to help only refugees in nearby areas and receive a quota of UN refugees every year. But the solution is not, as the proposers believe, to leave Denmark's borders wide open and let thousands of migrants swim, wade or sail their way in inflatable rubber boats. The solution is to show due care and introduce an asylum stop now. Just by 2021, more than 100,000 have arrived in Europe, and it is just via the Mediterranean. The next wave of migrants moving towards Denmark in the North will hit us as hard as it did during the migrant crisis in 2015 and 2016. I think that the authors of the motion for a resolution should give some thought to the rest of the goodness industry. On the other hand, an asylum freeze is the way to put an end to dysfunctional and inhumane asylum legislation. It will remove the motivation to be smuggled here, thereby destroying the stumped business of the smugglers. These are the characteristics of a humane and solidarity-based asylum policy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143642	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143647	Thank you. I find it a little difficult to put into words how wild a proposal I think is that we should simply break human rights and international agreements and go alone in this way in order to break down the whole system that ensures that, after all, there is some solidarity in the refugee system that we have. But I seriously doubt that SF and New Citizens will look the same on this, so I really want to ask you something that I have serious doubts about, and it is still the case that for New Citizens it is an ultimate requirement for a bourgeois Prime Minister candidate that he should:
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143727	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143728	Thank you, President. I will start by correcting the mistake made by the Socialist People's Party rapporteur. You can actually make this asylum stop quite friendly, and it's quite simply the only way to do the right thing. And yes, New Citizens were founded on the migration crisis in 2015, when migrants were brought across borders, poured into municipalities, into day care institutions, primary school, etc. So yes, we stand firm to our three indispensable demands for a future Prime Minister, and it is, of course, a full ban on asylum that criminal foreigners must be expelled consistently and after the first sentence and that foreigners must support themselves. We need to create a new asylum system because, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, what we have today is inhumane.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143817	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143819	Thank you. Well, I am actually pleased that New Citizens still have the extremely indispensable demands, because that will mean that you cannot form a majority on the right if there is one day to be an opportunity for it. This will probably mean that we will have another Prime Minister or a majority in which new citizens have no influence. I am very pleased about that, so thank you for still not having a pragmatic approach to politics, but making mandatory demands that cannot be met in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143846	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143848	I understand that the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party is surprised that some people actually say what they think and do what they say, but we do so in the new citizens. Of course, we stand firm because this is all about saving Denmark. But I'm pretty sure we can solve the immigration policy from scratch, because it's extremely important for Denmark's future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143913	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is therefore Mr Beazley. Sikandar Siddique. It's sir. Sikandar Siddique's turn to speak now (Sikandar Siddique How can it be?). That is the order in which things are listed. I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126143939	Thanks for the word "Jens," you'll have to wait. First of all, I would like to look up the proposers. Dear Rajesh, dear Mozhdeh, dear Michala and dear Carsten, thank you very much for taking the lead in human refugee policy. And thank you to all of you 50,000 citizens who have signed the citizens' proposal, for you have just killed the myth that the Danish people do not want a humane refugee policy. So thank you so much. For too long here in Denmark, we have had an inhuman refugee policy, a refugee policy which aims to keep the most people out and send the most people home. We need to change this; we need to change the paradigm so that refugee policy is again about how we can help as many people as possible. I know we can't help the whole world, but I know as well that we can help far more than we do today. So let me start by saying that the Free Greens support the citizens' proposal in its entirety. The fact is that I believe that there are a great many citizens out there in our society who really do not know what kind of asylum hell Denmark has become. And I have no faith that the system in here is going to change the refugee and alien policy until we turn the mood of the people out there, so more Danes, more fellow citizens • more and more like you; 50,000 people have demanded it can demand that we have a different refugee and alien policy. Only then will we see a change. Our asylum hell doesn't give up adults. At the asylum centers, you cook with rats. Kids get sick with ptsd. We are sending war refugees, refugees who have fled from torture, destruction and war, back to destruction, torture and war. That is the asylum hell we have in Denmark today. So from getting here to getting kicked out, you live in an asylum hell. And I have to look at my friends in the support parties and say: Friends, you promised before the election that you would take a stand against Mrs Inger Løjberg's and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's immigration policy. Yes, you have made one or two improvements; I am glad of that. But 114 tightenings were made when you were supporting parties. Your crucial mandates were used. Then I know that there is an explanation that you do not have the crucial mandates and then the Socialists simply make their majority with the other parties. But then I have to ask: is this so important to you and is the older woman I mentioned right now in the hospital and the many other citizens who are and their stories so important to you that you are ready to overthrow the government? The fourth Vice-Presidents are also directly indicted). I'm sorry, President. Are the support parties ready for that? I have to ask today: is the refugee and alien area so central to the support parties that they are ready to take the consequences and overthrow the government? You have a responsibility. If it is up to the Free Greens, we must of course change the policy on refugees. We must once again become a great humanist power. We must once again welcome quota refugees. We need to shut down the exit centers. We must receive climate refugees. We must give refugees the right from day one to work and to train and live among us. We must once again be humanistic. We need to be human again. So the Free Greens support one hundred percent of the citizens' proposal, and we look forward to further processing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144422	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First of all, it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144426	I think it is a very good thing that the rapporteur calls on us to take responsibility. I'd like to turn that back. Could it not also be imagined that at some point, when the Free Greens have become eligible, they will also take responsibility and stamp out a real political debate on our side, that is, the parties with which the party shares values, rather than constantly scolding and scolding and disregarding the two handfuls of the debate, it is not one to two, but two, of improvements that we look into in the area of foreign policy? We fight on a case-by-case basis. The only thing we see the Free Greens do is stand out on the sidelines and scold everything and everyone, including those parties that really have to fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144517	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144518	No, the Free Greens will never join the choir of the Radical Left, which made sure that our Syrian fellow citizens are sent home today; the Radical Left, which today has the crucial mandates and then does not make an ultimate demand on the government and says: if you send just one Syrian citizen back to war, destruction and terror, we will not be supporting party to you. The rapporteur speaks from a logic, a Christiansborg logic, a logic of power. No, Free Greens won't be part of that power logic. Free Greens believe that it would be better to sit outside and speak the case of these people than to hold hands under a government which is leading the foreign policy of Mrs Inger Løjberg and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144604	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144604-2	What characterises a logic of power is precisely that that is where the power lies. So what is it exactly that is so great by constantly standing outside and pleading the cause of the Syrians instead of standing inside and at the same time pleading the cause of the Syrians and actually fighting for the real improvement of conditions for asylum seekers, rejected and so on? Can the rapporteur not see that there is a battlefield on which one can enter and which one can actually become a part instead of constantly standing outside?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144635	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144636	Can the questioner not see that the approach taken by the supporting parties means, de facto, that this policy of foreigners, this policy of refugees, has been accepted? The Socialists know, of course, that the support parties do not take the consequences of politics, and that is why I repeatedly urge the support parties to say at least before an election: friends, we would like to have a different policy on foreigners, but we also have to tell you that you will not have another policy on foreigners. I call for this to be done instead of saying something before an election and doing something else after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144708	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144709	Thank you. It is a sort of compliment that the rapporteur spends half of his speech on talking about, among other things. My party. I am thinking of this because the rapporteur is a certain kind of enthusiasm for the Enhedslisten. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the rapporteur's own party, because that is quite interesting. The rapporteur clearly disagrees with the way in which the support parties do this. We do not regard ourselves as supporting parties; it is only Mr. Sikandar Siddique, who does it. We are the parliamentary basis of the government, which is different. What do you want, sir? Sikandar Siddique do? What do you want, sir? Sikandar Siddique do quite specifically for Denmark to take more quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144802	Two years ago, when I was elected to the Folketing, I was talking about an anti-racist action plan. No one was talking about the anti-racist action plan, although everyone is talking today about the anti-racist action plan. I have kept doing this over and over again, so much so that now everyone is saying that in this debate on the financial bill you want to bring an anti-racist action plan into the negotiations. And then I know that the rapporteurs will say that they have been talking about this for many years and so on, but I can only observe and look at all the consultations and look at all the debates that have been that it is informal power. Free Greens will never legitimise the foreign policy of a Mrs Inger Løjberg and a Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Then we would rather use our informal power to protest and say that we cannot hold hands under a government which is leading the foreign policy of Mrs Inger Løjberg and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Otherwise it is said de facto that we have accepted it and that it will always be so in Denmark. So how else are we gonna change this? There is only one way to do this, and that is to say that we will not support such a government and that we will not support such a policy, otherwise it will always continue like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144908	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144910	But I just think it's so interesting that sir... Sikandar Siddique thinks that Free Greens are the only party that has informal power. Why haven't other parties? I find that very interesting. I also find this interesting, and I actually agree with it, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique starts his rapporteur's speech by saying that what is most needed is that we are working for pressure to come from outside Christiansborg as this citizen's proposal, which we agree on is an example of it, and that is why it is really difficult for me to understand why Mr. Siddique is not here. Sikandar Siddique is so busy disagreeing with the people he basically agrees with. I think it's a funny way to make politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126144951	I can understand the rapporteur's view of this when the rapporteur has replaced his hoodie with shirts and now wants power. So it was not many years ago that Enhedslisten stood and said that we simply have to go in a completely radically different direction, but today in the Enhedslisten we have recognised that we want power, that we want to enter into negotiations, and that has a price. And that price pays the Syrian refugees. That price pays the people who rot in the asylum centres, and I say over and over again: friends, if we are to have the government think differently, we cannot hold hands under them. We have to take the consequence of this and say: you are not sitting here on our mandates if people are to rot in the asylum centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145035	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145037	Thank you. In general, I think it is exciting to discuss strategies for how to get your policy through, because politics has always been the way for me to be willing to do what it takes, where I judge we will have the most political influence. That is why I think it is an exciting debate. Sir. Sikandar Siddique has then come to the conclusion that the best way to get its policy through is to overthrow the government. That is why I just want to hear what events such as the Free Greens imagine will occur after a government has been overthrown. How does it end up benefiting the Syrians and all these things that we agree on? What's the analysis there? Because you must have thought a lot about that, since that is the conclusion you end up coming to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145127	I would like to start by saying that, as it is right now for our dear Syrians, it does not matter whether Enhedslisten is the support party or whether it is the Danish People's Party that is the support party to the Left. They're rotting in asylum hell. That doesn't change anything in their situation. Perhaps this should be considered and asked: What does it matter whether one government or another comes? That is why I say that if it is nevertheless Mrs Inger Løjberg and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's immigration policy that we must pursue, then there is no other way than to say that it will not be on our mandates. Then we must stand together on the left and say: we will not help to hold hands under a government which conducts civil policy on foreigners and refugees. I do not see any other way, because when you say: okay, we are still your parliamentary basis, we are still making sure that we get financial laws through, so it is also de facto said that then in action we have abandoned immigration policy, refugee policy. Then it's only in rhetoric that you do it on social media. That is what the consequence is, and that is where I call on the support parties to say: let us stand together on the left and say that we do not want to do this; we draw a line in the sand.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145237	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145239	I think that the description of the course of events that I sought did not materialise. The rapporteur did not really answer my question about what would happen, perhaps hinted a little that we would have a bourgeois government. This would then have some wild consequences for Denmark's climate policy and welfare policy, and we would probably also find it difficult to get proposals through, for example. that Denmark is taking quota refugees, as we are doing now. It would probably be removed. It could be that the children came back to Soulsmark. Mr. For example, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. said that he thought it should be done. It could also be that we would get the plans for the island of Lindholm back. In other words, it is not without consequences to ensure that there is a bourgeois government, and that is actually just what I asked the rapporteur to reflect on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145317	Well, we have reflected on it in the Free Greens; of course we do. That is also why I mentioned the 114 austerity measures just now and that two years have now passed by a red majority. How many of the tightenings have been rolled back? Two, one and a half! And then I'm just saying, if there's a bourgeois government coming, which I don't want, what does it do to the people who rot? What difference does it make to the woman who is currently in the hospital? What difference does it make? All I'm saying is that we're gonna have to have a radical fight with this refugee and alien policy and become a humanist superpower again. The Socialists must know that they cannot get support from red parties if they are pursuing the policy of foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145404	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145421	I'm gonna get this desk down to human level. I would like to read a poem from one of the Danes we have had among us, namely Benny Andersen. He wrote it here in 1971, but it may be more topical than it has ever been before. We have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems, we have no problems. Benny Andersen, 1971. I think it says it all about the mental image that exists, and for me it is both a Christian and an ethical imperative to vote in favour of the citizens' proposal that we have here today. And regardless of whether there is any detail in what you may disagree with, I believe that it is absolutely essential for ethical and ethical considerations, as I say, for Christian considerations too, to say yes to this citizen's proposal here today. That's why KD votes yes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145741	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211126145803	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 30 November 2021 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
