ParlaMint-DK_20210128151034	The meeting is open. The item listed as No. 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151050	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151111	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151132	Thank you. We have seen stories of Danes travelling abroad in recent weeks. We have seen stories about Dubai, and today there are stories about Danish ski tourists in Austria. Almost a year ago it was just some of them who brought the corona to Denmark. And in recent weeks we have also heard that among other things. the new and contagious South African variant has also been found in a Dane. Today, it is a recommendation that when you land at the airport, you are tested and you go into isolation. But it is only a recommendation. This is not an injunction like many of the other restrictions we have already imposed, as is the case in many other countries. But with this bill, we are going to allow it not just to be a recommendation, but to be an injunction and a requirement. This is about public health; it's about stopping new infection chains and, of course, particularly infection chains with some of these new virus variants, which can be even more dangerous and even more contagious than those that we've been fighting with for almost a year. Of course, this is also about fairness and fairness. After all, it is not reasonable for Danes at home to make great sacrifices every day in order to avoid the start of new chains of infection, and then to see sunburn types come ascending at the airport in flip flops and skip the test queue and isolation and risk compromising the entire health effort. Because if you don't care about the recommendations, it is precisely that you risk starting new and dangerous chains of infection in our society. Lots of citizens make big sacrifices. There are people who lose their jobs; there are companies that have to turn around; there are children who cannot go to school; there are elderly people in nursing homes who cannot get the visits they like and which they usually get. There are many who make sacrifices right now and here, and for them it is of course extremely provocative to see people come home from party trips and the like and spread infection in Danish society. That is why it is not too much to ask that those who choose to leave should also accept that they are being tested and taken into isolation when they return to Denmark. Specifically, this bill provides for a quick test to be taken immediately after entry. It is obvious that you do so at the airport if you have flown and then stay isolated for 10 days. And then there is the possibility of interrupting these 10 days if there is a negative PCr test taken at the earliest on the fourth day after entry. There are, of course, a number of provisions which take account of people travelling into Denmark for a worthwhile purpose, so that it will be possible for companies to obtain the necessary labour. And in these cases, the starting point is that they can work, but still have to stay in isolation when they do not work, just as there are reasonable exceptions for people who live in the border country and work on one side or the other. Testing, isolation and detection are key elements in our fight against the corona. Therefore, the bill also envisages that the Patient Safety Agency may have access to airline passenger data for the purpose of detection of infection, and that access to municipal isolation facilities will also be extended. All in all, the draft law is an important tool for combating the infection, which is why it is also important that we get the law in place now. Also, bearing in mind the winter holiday ahead of us, which is in a few weeks' time, when we may be in danger of seeing more people travel in and out of the country, it is important that that part of it is in place. So there's support from the Social Democratic Party for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151556	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151600	Thank you. It is just a quick question for the rapporteur. I'm just gonna ask you about sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff believes that it is an expression of being hand-wringing and not to take the epidemic seriously if you allow yourself to ask questions, for example. the medical basis or the extent of the problem before deciding to vote yes or no to an urgent legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151619	I think that depends very much on the situation. Depends on how long you sit and twist those hands. If you work fast and ask quickly and we all make an effort to provide quick answers, I think that is quite reasonable. If there is a little too much handwreck and circle teaching in it, I can and I guess that is what the radical rapporteur refers to... think about reacting to it if I think it is going too slowly. For time, and I think the radical rapporteur also agrees with me on a crucial factor. But if I am going to give some sort of hand in hand to the radical rapporteur, I would say that, of course, we must have clarification before we give a mandate for one thing or another, and we must all make an effort there to ensure that this clarification process does not take place in a slow way, but can take place in a very fast and effective way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151709	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151710	Thank you. I fully agree that time is a factor, so when you have a meeting on Thursdays and ask questions at that meeting on Thursdays and get answers on Fridays and Sundays respectively, how does the rapporteur think it should have been done more quickly? Or was it more of a general criticism made by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151727	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151728	It is good that we can use the Chamber to discuss what we are discussing in the newspapers, etc., but that is quite fine. But it was a general criticism that I did not think that the Folketing and my honourable colleagues here were prepared to act as resolutely as I would have liked them to be. But they are so today, it looks like, and then everything's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151803	Thank you. No one else will ask anything or comment, so we have a new rapporteur. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Thank you. Sir. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128151820	Thank you, President. In the last exchange of words, there is a slight regret that there is only one possibility of asking two questions to the rapporteur. Well, thank you for the floor. What the government is asking for in this urgent legislative proposal is Parliament's support for the adoption of rules such as: makes it possible to introduce requirements for entry persons to be tested and to go into isolation themselves. The Government is also asking for support to improve the possibilities of infecting visitors by establishing a legal basis for establishing rules for airlines to record certain information about passengers and crew members and to provide the Patient Safety Agency with this information immediately upon arrival in the country, and finally to extend the circle of persons covered by voluntary residence offers at a municipal isolation facility, so that the offer also includes persons at risk of being infected with the covid-19 and awaiting the outcome of a test. The proposal comes as a response to those, if I may say so, relatively new mutations, including the British and South African, who do not know national borders and who are flourishing across borders. And I wonder if the proposal should also be seen as a consequence of the behaviour of the Danes, who have actually cooked with their amusement trips to and from Dubai, no one mentioned, no one forgotten. The central point of the proposal is to allow what is today a strong call for testing and isolation to become a firm demand. We in the Left have concentrated our efforts in particular on the requirement that, as an entry to Denmark, you should have 10 days in isolation, unless you can show a negative test at the earliest on the fourth day. Because, to be perfectly honest, if you listened to the government's original proposal, it was almost a proposal a little nuanced about a wide 10-day isolation for all visitors, and it would, in our best of belief, simply have put Denmark at a standstill and not just for fun. No, we had actually quite low-practically risked that the hospitals in the border regions had had to restrict their activity, that the slaughterhouses could not maintain production, that the construction sites had to drive on sleep flares, and that Danish businessmen, as a difficult situation despite being out to fetch contracts home to Denmark, would have very difficulty in doing their job. In other words, there was a huge risk of making the medicine worse here than the disease. That is why the Left entered into these negotiations and the discussions that we have had with the government and with the parties of the Danish Parliament, with the clear aim that Denmark should not be brought to a standstill, that we should not bother an already hard-pressed industry more than necessary, that we should not put more jobs at risk and that, despite the corona epidemic, we could continue to keep production Denmark open and not jeopardise the functioning of health care. At the same time, it has been important for the Left that we do not end up in a situation where Denmark, if I may say so, is cut in half. That is why we are pleased that the draft law itself does not prevent some form of passage between Bornholm and the rest of Denmark, since it is clear directly from the draft law that exceptions to the requirement of isolation and testing of persons travelling in transit through Sweden to or from Bornholm can be made. We would like to thank the parties of the Folketing for the good discussions we have had on this bill, which, I can tell you, has been a difficult exercise in my party at least. But with the exceptions we've been able to talk about, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128152230	Thank you. There are no comments. We have to get drunk, and then it is Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128152253	Better late than never. About a year ago, more planes landed at the airport with Chinese people, who came from a country with a huge epidemic. At that time, the director of the National Health Service said, sir. Søren Brostrøm that it was very little likely that the infection came to Denmark. It was said: "We have a good preparedness in Denmark to deal with situations like this, and have updated the health personnel from the Danish Health Authority with information on how to deal with patients suspected of this specific disease... If someone comes to Denmark who meets the specific criteria that he/she may be infected with the new virus, the person will be tested and treated by specialists at either Skejby or Hvidovre hospitals, both of whom have been approved by the Danish Health Authority to handle infected persons... The Danish Health Authority does not recommend that screenings for disease be introduced upon entry to Denmark. Later it says: "This is because there is no evidence that it can prevent the spread of infection. Travellers will also not automatically be quarantined unless, on the basis of a specific individual assessment, it is deemed necessary. I have found the date of February 12, when I went out and said: Well, there can't be 14 days of quarantine for the people who come to Denmark from those countries, for example. from China, including Wuhan, to limit the risk? Afterwards, we saw people coming from Austria. They could not be tested either; only those from northern Italy could. On 13 March, the government closed the borders and advised against all travel activity. But on June 15th a test center was started at the airport. It might have been good if it had come a little before you almost shut down the airport. And on 30 June, the Minister of Justice said: "If it does not have the desired effect to encourage people to test for coronavirus when they arrive from a country outside the EU to Copenhagen Airport, it may be necessary to make testing compulsory. It was June 30th; it was a very long time ago. That is why we want to say: yes, we welcome the law, but we still believe that there are some shortcomings, as this applies at the airport, while there are not exactly the same restrictions when we talk about the border. For the Danish People's Party, it has always been important that we look for who is crossing the border, even in this case where they can take the infection. We could see it where someone who couldn't get through the airport took the plane to Hamburg and slipped across the border without anything happening. Fortunately, the new emergency law here states that there is a requirement for them to be tested within 24 hours, but nobody knows if they do. So, of course, there are problems with the border and we will ask questions about that, but we are also aware that this is a compromise, because in order to get as many of the parties in the Folketing with whom we can, you have to land it somewhere. We also had some questions on the proposal for this to force hospitalization and treatment. This is one of the things that lies in the new epidemic law, which we do not like; that is, we are in order to be able to impose isolation and testing, but not the other things. But some of what we're also going to ask questions about, right now, right after we're done... so it can be quickly answered... is about our concern for the drivers who bring people home from the airport. As far as I can see, it is up to the companies themselves if they want to put plexiglass between the driver and passengers. And there must be the same contagious roads when you get into a taxi and get drove home. How are you supposed to behave in public transport? We know, of course, that you have to wear muzzles, but if that had been enough, you could also say that people could do that everywhere, and then nobody was infected. So these are some of the things we want to ask about. In relation to isolation facilities, which are also part of this, we think it is really good. But at the same time you also have to look at the situation where this isolation is not observed; if you have made a hotel room or other available plus diet, you have to pay for yourself if you do not comply with the isolation. So there are a lot of good tactics in this, as I said, better late than never, but there are just some questions we want to ask about the proposal itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128152743	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128152814	Thank you for that and congratulations to the Minister for Health. Imagine celebrating my birthday in the Chamber with a first reading of an urgent legislative proposal. I think we've all been more concerned with viruses and mutations over the past year than most of us had expected. Variants, contagiousness and immunity are words we have suddenly got used to using. Virus mutating, there's nothing new in it. It is therefore no wonder that it happens with the corona virus. This is how evolution works. Not all mutations need to lead to concern either. Most are completely meaningless, but it may happen that it gives the virus an evolutionary advantage. It can, for example, be done. be the ability to spread better or the ability to avoid antibodies. That is why we are here today with another urgent legislative proposal. When we had the first discussions, as you know, on behalf of the Radical Left, I raised a number of concerns and issues which I had to clarify before we could take a position on the draft law. This is what parliamentary work must be like. I asked about the authorities' recommendation, about the extent of the problem and about the public's confidence in all these issues. Fortunately, in the next few days, we received answers. There was a fairly clear recommendation from both the State Serum Institute and the European ECDC, pointing out that the new variants made it necessary to test and isolate entries from all countries. We also got some somewhat limited statistics, after all better than nothing, indicating that very, very few of those who land at the airport are actually being tested. Finally, I had some good comments on the dilemma of imposing coercion in relation to recommendations, and that in this case, among other things, there is the question of whether or not we are going to be able to do so. We must also take account of the general perception of the population. Of course, I listened to all that, and that is why we support it. However, I still have some reservations, but fortunately this law will only apply until 1 March, and then we will be able to use the time appropriately to become even wiser. I hope, for example, that the Minister will be able to help ensure a better overview of visitors who have not followed the recommendation to be tested. I also remain a little sceptical about enforcement, as I mentioned at the meetings. We are going to follow that part closely, particularly in relation to compliance with isolation. Airport testing is obviously easy to enforce, and it is a very important step. This is, of course, due to the fact that it is particularly the new worrying variants that are the cause of the ECDC's recommendation. That is why quick tests should also be supplemented by PCR tests, which I have mentioned, so that we can characterise the specific variants, because this cannot be done with quick tests alone. However, I still find it quite awkward that the possibility of imprisonment should be raised at all. There should be plenty of fines, and we will be tabling an amendment on that. I would also like to call again for the intensive use of infection detection, both to follow possible new variants, but also because it will have more consequences for these citizens than for others if they break isolation. I am also pleased to see that it has been decided to shorten the period when entry information is stored from 3 to 1 month. So thank you for that. It is important in this matter, as in the wider debate on the epidemic law, to keep an eye on the balance, so that the legal certainty of the people in the name of public health is not ignored, and we all agree on this, fortunately. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128153136	Thank you. There are no comments. We have just to get drunk, and then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128153153	Thank you. The last year, as the previous rapporteur also said, we have been working very hard to combat a virus. We have also had a lot of experience, and fortunately for that. In particular, we have learned how to control development by intensive testing, isolating infected people and tracing close contacts. We have a good sense of when shut down can cause the infection curve to fall, and we know in particular that if we get late, it will take longer before we break the basket again. When we suddenly get new varieties of viruses, we also need to learn how to handle them. We have learned that B117 infects a lot more than the virus variant we have been used to, and we also know, unfortunately, that it has already spread. The best prevention would therefore have been whether we had prevented that mutation from entering the country. We could not, and we cannot quite, in the future either, because every day travellers enter the country. But we can try to stop the spread of new virus variants, and there are enough of them. Therefore, we also believe in the SF that it is a small contribution from visitors that they allow themselves to be tested and isolated until we are 100% sure that they are not infected and that if they are infected we can also track all close contacts and ensure that they are also tested and isolated. It has already been a recommendation from the health authorities for a long time, and many have followed the recommendation. The many who have themselves followed the recommendation of the authorities are therefore not affected by this bill, which alone will affect those who did not wish to follow the recommendation. Now it will be a legal requirement, but with exceptions, which ensure that those entering on business can still carry out their duties, provided that they are still being tested and isolated when they are not at work. We in the SF have asked for this, so the SF also backs the bill. It is a prerequisite for isolation that we can offer potentially infected people a place where they can stay while either waiting for test responses or waiting for the infection to disappear. That is why, of course, we also support the extended legal basis in relation to the municipalities' offer of isolation places. In conclusion, I would just like to thank my colleagues and the government for a very good course of negotiations on this matter. This has been a very good result.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128153434	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128153454	Thank you for that, President. Then we stand here again and have to deal with another Corona-related urgent legislative proposal, where it is basically about finding a balance between the concern for our common health and the concern for our freedoms. I think that with this proposal we have managed to strike a reasonable balance. The challenge is, of course, that with the mutations of coronavirus new variants arise, which may have a different pattern of infection, which may be more contagious, and which may also have a reduced sensitivity to known vaccines. They will thus present a particular risk to our health services, to our elderly and vulnerable citizens, but also to our vaccination programme and our reopening plans. That is why it is essential that we do what we can to control the variants and limit their spread. We can hardly prevent them from entering the country altogether, but the bill here is aimed at strengthening efforts to prevent the introduction of infection on entry. We have seen examples of citizens who have entered and where the infection has been introduced into the country. We must, of course, do what we can to avoid this, while at the same time strengthening testing and detection, which is our strongest weapon against covid-19. Therefore, it is also very reasonable that this proposal should ensure that citizens are tested on entry, and we would also like it to be in the form of a PC test which will ensure that we get the gene sequencing that allows us to monitor the spread of new variants. However, this is a dilemma, because the proposal here also crosses a line in relation to testing and detection requirements, because up to now it has been based solely on recommendations and therefore on voluntary action. This has had a major impact on the support and support of the population. It is essential for the effort to continue to be based on it and for us to continue to apply the principles of both proportionality and minimum action. Therefore, it has also been absolutely crucial to have an assessment both of the scale of the problem, but also of the possible restrictions that may be related to it, and of the health implications. When we look at this, it is therefore our view that it has been necessary to impose a sanction if we do not comply with the recommendations on entry, and that is in view of the threat posed by the new variants. That is also what we have been able to see in the recommendations, both from the ECDC and from the SSI, and that is why we think it is fair that we are doing this here, but that it is of course crucial that we also ensure that there is a sunset clause, that is to say that there will be 4 weeks out, just as there is in the authorisations we give in the new epidemic law. So the measures here are some that will only apply until 1 March. But it's the case that when you go out, it's a calculated risk you're taking. You know the consequences, you know the recommendations; it is not something where you have inadvertently been infected or become a close contact, and therefore it is also reasonable that there is a sanction by not complying with the guidelines, also from a medical point of view. When the country is closed down, pupils cannot go to school, care centres are still subject to restrictions and there is still a ceiling on assembly, it is not reasonable that when you take the risk of leaving the country, you can go back in without imposing a sanction if you do not comply with the recommendations, precisely because it is so crucial that we avoid new mutations entering the country. But it is also the case that when we introduce the possibility of a sanction, it is absolutely crucial for Enhedslisten that some legal guarantees are also provided. That is also why it has been absolutely crucial in the course of the proceedings to ensure that there is a right to justice, that the Minister is obliged to bring a case to the court if the citizen so requests. We have also ensured, in connection with the provision of passenger data, that it is limited to name, date of birth, contact details, seating and itinerary, and that those data are also deleted again after 30 days, precisely for the purposes of data minimisation, and that authorities do not store information longer than is necessary. And I note with satisfaction that we have got into the agreement. On the other hand, I fully agree with the radical rapporteur that the penalty of up to six months in prison is totally unfair and unproportional, and that is why we are going to table an amendment that instead of restricting it to being a fine. And we would also recommend that it be taxed, because there is a difference between how much a fine of DKK 3,500 is imposed. means, in relation to the income you have. I am also somewhat surprised that the proposal does not take any more account of migrant workers, not those who are borderers, but those who enter construction sites, and people who work in the transport sector, who are uncertain about the test results when they enter, but who can still stay here for up to 3 days without being tested. We believe that this should have been looked at in connection with this, but it has not succeeded. However, overall, we can support the proposal, also in relation to the wider scope for visitation to isolation facilities, and we are going to pursue some of these things in committee and, among other things, in committee. I would like to propose an amendment. But otherwise, as I said, we can support the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128154028	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Per Larsen, Conservative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128154058	Thank you for the floor. It is, after all, a very serious situation that we are in at the moment. Society is shut down significantly, stores are bleeding, our hospitals have cancelled studies and treatments because they need the capacity for covid patients. We have schoolchildren who do not go to school, we have post-schools who also do not have pupils in place, and that has a lot of consequences both economically and humanly with the crisis we are facing. That is why we also need to do everything we can to ensure that the infection father out and that it comes down to as low a level as possible. Then, of course, there are plenty of people who will say: well, it looks reasonable at the moment, the infection rates are going down, the contact numbers are the lowest we have been able to measure for a long time and so on. etc. But we are also in a winter period where we are very much indoors and where we need to be very careful, and what threatens us most is, in fact, these various mutations that we have seen have come to Denmark. We must, of course, make sure that we do not do so, and it is logical that people who then come to Denmark are tested when they arrive, at least at the airport, and that they also go into isolation, so that you can be sure that they do not carry any infection with them, and I think that is actually finely dosed in this proposal. After all, we have seen a development in it, from the time it was first addressed, that it is now something that can be used, without having too much impact on our labour market. It is clear that those who cross the borders of our neighbouring countries may be for home care or for abattoirs or otherwise have to be able to move, and in the same way it is if some specialists come from outside. Of course, they must also be able to carry out their duties if they are to mount something or help with something, and then be in isolation when they are not at work. I think that is very well balanced, and it runs out at some point, and then we have to decide what happens next. However, we are in any case very positive about the proposal and intend to vote in favour of it in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128154331	Thank you. There are no more rapporteurs, so that is why it is the Minister who is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128154354	Thank you. Thank you for your comments, and thank you for sharing the analysis of the situation that we are in in Denmark and that a large part of the world is currently in. New, more contagious virus variants are undoubtedly the biggest threat to our control of the epidemic, and we can see in Denmark that it really works when we put in: a huge effort of the whole population, of all age groups, of all Denmark. It is a huge effort that has made us have once again knocked down the infection figures. After all, we have also had and have a very, very extensive decommissioning of our society, with very, very high costs culturally, economically and humanly in every way. And we just have to say that, although we have had such a long and so extensive decommissioning which has really knocked down the infection figures, we can see that during the decommissioning and during the infection rates a new mutated virus, a variant of the virus, which was first found in Britain, is called B117, and in spite of a shutdown, it has managed to spread. It now has a calculated contact number that is actually over 1, which means that it is growing, and that says something about how contagious the virus is. And it says something about how much it takes to control the epidemic as a society when new infectious variants are introduced in the middle of an epidemic, and that is exactly what we are tormented to react to, because we know that we now have the British mutation in Denmark, and it has a good grip on the epidemic, it will take over the epidemic in Denmark within a few weeks. We also know that there are other and also more contagious variants out there in the world, and we also know that it is likely that there will be even more mutating variants that could jeopardise our epidemic control. It is therefore absolutely essential that we keep both those we know, but certainly also those we do not yet know, new strains of viruses, as far as possible out of our society. It is totally utopia to believe, with the place we are in the world and in Europe, that Denmark is an island where you can just continue and think that they are not really being introduced and that we are not coming under pressure. However, if we can delay and, as a society, we can take action to ensure that they are introduced widely and massively into our society, we must do so, and that is why we are here today. That is simply the purpose of this legislation. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the ECDC, has assessed the risk in Europe in the recent risk analysis, a Europe which in the first wave of the epidemic back in spring was extremely hard hit and in the second wave up to Christmas was extremely hard hit. Right now, we have countries that are England, of course, and Ireland, which was incredibly hard hit by this mutation, and right now it is Portugal which is the country most affected. To what extent it is the mutation from England, it is hard to say because there is not much sequencing data from Portugal, but our Portuguese friends are in many ways incredibly hard hit. And according to their recent analysis of the risk in Europe, which appeared on 21 January, the ECDC, the European centre that is watching these things, is that the focus should be to avoid the spread of new virus variants between countries and that this should be avoided by testing and isolating those who enter. This is a very clear conclusion from the ECDC, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. So our Achilles heel is now largely the introduction and spread of new and more contagious viral variants. If we can prevent, we can delay, we can minimize, then much is won while we fight a battle to get vaccinated as much as possible in Denmark. Against this background, it is the government's opinion that we are now and here, and that is to say even before 1 March, when we have a new epidemic law which will enter into force if it is otherwise adopted in the Folketing; this indicates that after first reading and political agreement it will have to bring forward the entry into force in respect of some of the tools in it in a slightly adjusted form. In its simplicity, it is a proposal for the current recommendations of the health authorities. It is a recommendation that it is not only a recommendation but that it becomes binding. And what they recommend is that visitors take a test immediately upon arrival, for example. at the airport and self-insulates for 10 days, but with the possibility of interrupting isolation by a negative response to a PCr test carried out at least 4 days after entry. The draft law here therefore allows for rules on such requirements for testing and self-isolation, so that it is not just a recommendation, but rules. And there is also the possibility to lay down rules allowing the Patient Safety Management Board to have better access to information about passengers arriving by air. It is absolutely essential to get the information quickly so that there can be a rapid and effective detection of the infection if there are people who have travelled on flights to Denmark and who carry it here. Especially, of course, if it is infected with mutations that we need to pay extra attention to, you need to have information about who was on the plane so that you can make a quick and effective detection of the infection. And then there is an element in the bill here, which is about laying down rules that extend the circle of people who are offered voluntary residence at our municipal isolation facilities. With the legislative proposal we are discussing today, we are therefore proposing that the legal basis should already be established to lay down general rules for persons arriving in Denmark from abroad or residing abroad to provide evidence that they are not infected with covid-19 and that they are obliged to take a test on entry and to go into isolation. Of course, there will be cases where it is necessary to exempt from such requirements for testing and isolation, and several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned how to do so. Bornholm has been mentioned when going to and from Bornholm, but there are also business travellers, and it is intended to lay down rules on exceptions to the requirement to be tested and isolated on entry. But I must also be honest and say that it is not a barn door that needs to be opened. That's very accurate. Of course, we need exceptions that make sense to health professionals, but the purpose is for this to have an effect and to help us in our epidemic control. In addition, it is also proposed to allow the Patient Safety Agency to have better access to information on passengers, and that is what we need for our detection of infection that has been criticised. Now they are getting better tools, and I look forward to that too. I would also like to emphasise that we have written into the comments on the bill that we will consult the Parliamentary Committee on Health and Older People's Rights before the detailed rules on requirements for testing and isolation on entry can be translated into a notice. And it will be a kind of mini-general test, or how to put it, on the next major setup, where there will be parliamentary control over a future parliamentary committee as a result of the new epidemic law. That committee hasn't been set up yet, and that's why you have to do it this way, and I look forward to it being done by that method. Finally, as I have said, it is proposed to extend access to municipal isolation facilities that we are offering today. These are voluntary offers, of course, about stays for citizens who are infected with covid-19 and such as. living small or sharing a household with many or other reasons need help in keeping to isolation. With this proposed extension of the offer, citizens who are at risk of being infected with covid-19, but thus have not been tested positive yet, or are not, and as for example. awaiting the outcome of a test, could be searched for such isolation stay. For example, it will. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject, and I would like to thank him for his excellent work and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. if, during stays in Denmark, the persons concerned are living or staying in circumstances which do not allow the applicable recommendations for self-isolation to be kept. The proposal for a law is therefore intended to increase the possibility of actively helping to reduce the risk of the spread of covid-19 during a period when the greatest risk is new and more contagious viral variants that find their way to Europe, find their way to Denmark, and that is a prerequisite for us to get through this pandemic as quickly and safely as possible and get back to an open society again. Then we cannot risk being introduced to even more dangerous and contagious variants. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128155412	Thank you. There are no comments on the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128155426	The debate is open. First, the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128155444	Thank you. During the time with corona, extra many Danes have been sought out in nature. The government, together with a number of parties, supported this by giving 19 million this summer. kr. for interventions that will make it even easier for the Danes to experience and spend the night in our nature. With the recent agreement on the nature and biodiversity package, we will set up more untouched forests and new national parks that will allow the Danes to enjoy more exciting natural experiences. Like many other Danes, I have also grown up by the sea, and for me it goes without saying that we can pass on the joy of the sea and give nature the best possible framework to unfold. The sea is our largest and wildest natural resource, and I think it is important that we give room for nature to unfold on its own terms. Therefore, we also need to improve the conditions for our nature, also below the surface, both for nature's sake, but also for our own, so that the next generations can also experience our wildly wonderful Denmark. Before the election, we made a promise to take better care of our nature. I am proud that the government, together with the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative in December, agreed on an agreement on the nature and biodiversity package with one of the greatest increases in nature effort ever. Our animals, plants and mushrooms must have better living conditions and the agreement guarantees 888 million. kr. for e.g. the creation of new national parks and the development of more untouched forests. I look forward to the forthcoming work on rolling out the nature and biodiversity package. We must continue to play many keys to get a good condition in our marine environment as well. It is from the discharge of nitrogen to left plastic in our nature. The government has among other things: already strengthened the regulation of nitrogen in order to clean up the agricultural package, and we must also have done away with the waste in our sea and nature. Specifically, a number of plastic products are completely banned by the disposable plastics directive and manufacturers must take responsibility for cleaning up when their products end up in the wild. Plastic doesn't belong there. This also applies to lost fishing gear, which causes great damage to nature. It is also an issue on which we have a great deal of focus, and where the Ministry of Food is in dialogue with green organisations, business organisations and public authorities on how best to combat it: a common front against lost fishing gear and plastic pollution, which comes from fishing in the sea. I am actively working with my Nordic colleagues on the adoption of a new global agreement to combat marine waste. Last year we launched a Nordic report on the elements of a global agreement to combat marine waste with other international environmental ministers. It's just to say that there's a lot going on in the whole natural area. The proposal we are discussing today is about stone reefs. Stone reefs are ocean oases for wildlife, but we have fewer rock reefs than before, because the stones have historically been fished up and have been used to build. Stone reefs constitute important habitats for many animals and also fish, and stone reefs are therefore important habitats and important for the biodiversity of the seabed. It is, of course, important to address in a natural crisis where animals and plants lack space and habitats. The nature and biodiversity package includes: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. kr. to improve the marine environment and, for example, to re-establish reefs and collect lost fishing gear in Øresund. In June last year, what the proposers also mentioned, we also made an agreement on a number of new nature initiatives, where we among other things. secured 10 million. kr. to stone reefs that will help nature both under and over the water in Roskilde Fjord and at Gilleleje. And it is to the delight of both fish fry and sea anemones. I myself have also had the opportunity to visit Roskilde Fjord and hear about the National Park's plans for the recovery of stone reefs and the construction of a new dissemination reef. I am sure that it will provide many good natural experiences and that nature also welcomes by kiss hand. So we have already set aside funds for stone reefs, and together with a number of other initiatives it must help to benefit our marine environment and at the same time support that the Danes come out even more and experience the Danish natural values. So the intention of the resolution is good, but we are in the process. At the same time, of course, it is also the case that proposals must be financed, and the motion for a resolution here is not. So, on that basis, the government cannot support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128155941	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128155947	Thank you. I think it is nice to hear that rock reefs are given priority because it is just an oasis in the sea and because we have too little focus on the sea in our biodiversity talk in general. I would like to know if it could be imagined that the protection of stone reefs and the establishment of new stone reefs can be included in the new marine plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128160005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128160007	It is clear that some of what we are aware of and which is one of the factors of pressure in relation to the marine environment, among other things. fishing and also some of the fishing activities that may be close to rock reefs. So that is one of the things we will also be looking at in the context of the forthcoming marine plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128160023	Then there are no more brief comments, and then we go to the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs. Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128160059	Thank you, President. Stenrev we love very much. They provide habitats for all kinds of cripple, for plants and for animals on the seabed. For centuries we have been fishing rocks out of the sea and out of our fjords, and like so much other environmental junk we have come to make in the course of time, we now have to put the other way instead of stone down to create some good habitats. So first of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting rock reefs and biodiversity in the sea on the agenda in the Parliamentary Chamber today. There is no doubt that, unfortunately, we need a long better biodiversity in our seas. That is why it is also a very good idea to build new stone reefs. We, as Social Democrats, are very much in agreement with that. There are many reasons for this. But we have, in fact, already set aside 10 million in June this year. kr. to the restoration of rock reefs, as the Minister said, together with Radical Left, SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative in re-establishment of rock reefs in Natura 2000 sites, in order to provide animals and plants with favourable living conditions. But why is there such a proposal now? This is actually a strange time, because there are no financial law negotiations. So, I think it would be a very good idea for the Danish People's Party to perhaps get stuck in the negotiating table and find the money if you want to be involved in making the decisions. The reaction of the Danish People's Party to the Finance Act was that we had spent too much money. I don't know where you're gonna take the money for rock reefs, 'cause it doesn't say anything about anywhere. I look forward to getting rock reefs both at Gilleleje and Roskilde Fjord and also having rock reefs that can convey life under water, but I note that the proposers write in the submission that they want the proposal to focus on the establishment and restoration of rock reefs to the extent that it makes sense. And it makes sense if you have the funding in place. We have just entered into a huge agreement on the nature and biodiversity package at 888 million. kr. in the Finance Act for Nature and Biodiversity. And here, too, money has been found for underwater life. But I did not see the Danish People's Party stand and cheer in Parliament when the Finance Act was passed. There is no doubt that our nature in the sea and on land is cramped. And I am proud that we have done the work we have done now with the nature and biodiversity package. So I do share the motives of the authors of this motion for a resolution, and I am very fond of it when we have the opportunity here in Parliament to also discuss proposals from parties that have recently turned green. But I just think it would be best if the money were there too. It is easy to make proposals if you do not want to tell us where the money is to come from. So I agree. We want more stone reefs, and we deliver that in the government together with Radical and Left, no, sorry Radical Left and SF. Yes, I am sorry to the rapporteur of the Left, because I can see that he would like some recognition, but it may not be right in this case that I can give it to him, because it is the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative that are behind it. I think it is important that we say who is behind the agreement. So, on this basis, I would say that we have delivered the goods as such; we are already in the process. This motion for a resolution is very sympathetic, but it is actually a bit of a waste of time because we are in the process. So we cannot support this proposal from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128160608	Thank you. There's a brief comment, and it's from Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128160611	Thank you. I would now like to say that I never think it is a waste of time to talk about nature and biodiversity. The government is so fond of the partnerships, but could it not be imagined that through the partnerships we could get more for the money, so you got more out of this? After all, there are already private people who have invested money in establishing more stone reefs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128160637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128160638	Yeah, you can easily imagine partnerships. In fact, there was one of my groupmates who said today with a glimpse in his eye: Just wait, the Fehmarn connection will be a big stone reef. Whether that will actually be what is being talked about at the time, I shall not be able to say. But it is easy to enter into partnerships in order to create more nature. We do that in every possible way. There are, for example: The Climate Forest Fund, which we have been discussing in this Chamber recently. This is also a good example of partnership.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128160711	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer apostates. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128160746	I would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur for spriting and, incidentally, also for his speech. It was quite good on long stretches, because of course we also share this ambition, which the Danish People's Party expresses in their motion for a resolution to re-establish and also introduce new stone reefs into the Danish marine environment. Now Mrs Mette Gjerskov was just about to give us some of the credit for this, and that was quite rightly so, because we have, of course, pressed for the government to come up with a package of nature and biodiversity. We weren't allowed to come, and that's fair enough. After all, it is the government's privilege to be able to negotiate with those you want at least some way along the way. However, we were allowed to table a motion for a resolution on this in the autumn, and we also believe that it had a small impact on the fact that the biodiversity package, which was actually said to have been postponed for a year, was not put out of hand yet it was negotiated with its support parties. So that's okay. However, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting forward the proposal, B 96, which, as was also explained before, is a proposal which will lead to several stone reefs in the Danish seas. This is an important part of what needs to be done to improve our marine environment. After all, there are many different tools that can be taken forward, and I think it is essential that we also look at which instruments are also evidence of purely professionally giving a good effect on the action that is behind it. We have a headline for our environmental policy, which is about the most environment for money, and I think this is one of the elements in which we can see ourselves. The proposal, as we see it, will ensure that it is also what is stated in the proposal, so perhaps it is not something that I see the government re-establishing old stone reefs and establishing several new stone reefs in Danish waters, and that the grant for the stone reefs is continued in the Finance Act by 9.2 million. kr. for the financial years 2021 to 2023. When I say that I can see myself in it, it is because, when we were in government, we ourselves introduced a series of measures in favour of the stone reefs. The recovery of the stone reef at Gilleleje Flak is part of the agreement on a natural package from May 2016, and a stone reef has been established in Limfjorden as part of the agreement on the food and agriculture package, which is also intended to contribute to the natural values of the area and to a study of the overall potential of the rock reefs as a nitrogen reef. We did so because in the VLAK government we also saw the rock reefs and reefs in general as an important part of a vulnerable nature type in our waters. That is why, of course, it is essential that we also look after them and re-establish them to the extent that it makes sense. That is why it is still our view that this is something that we must continue to work on. It is a tool among many, but an important tool for developing and taking good care of our marine environment. That is why I can say that, in the case of the Left, we agree with the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128161047	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stamp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128161109	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good proposal from the Danish People's Party. Where are you guys? Well, that's the gentleman there, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, rapporteur today I thought it was Mr. René Christensen, who was the author of the motion. But thank you for a very good suggestion. I thought it was a pleasure to read it. In this way, I feel like Mrs Susanne Zimmer when it comes to the fact that reading such proposals will only make you happy, because it only shows how broadly rooted the focus on increasing biodiversity is in the Folketing, and I think that one can only welcome that. And we are in complete agreement with the whole effort in relation to stone reefs. So we do not entirely agree that we have to negotiate financial law through a resolution, and that is why we end up saying no to the resolution. In reality, however, I think that there is such a good argument in the proposal and also behind the initiatives that we have taken together with the current government and also behind those that the old majority took on board that there might well be potential in coming together to do something a little wider, something a little more long-term and perhaps something that has, what can be said, such a more general perspective. In other words, one might well make an action plan for the restoration of reefs or similar reefs so look at it in a slightly larger perspective and with a slightly longer time horizon. I think that this motion for a resolution is a sign of that. There could be a perspective in this, both for the sake of the matter, but also because it seems that there is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament that thinks that this is an important instrument in working for biodiversity at sea. So thank you for the proposal, but no, thank you for not being prepared to negotiate finance law here. However, this is certainly something that we will be looking at, and we cannot at all deny that it could be one of the things that we will actually end up taking into the financial law negotiating room, because the fight for biodiversity is continuing. Although we really funded through this year's Finance Act, many future projects and perspectives still lie out there. So I shall not be able to deny at all that this is one of the things that we ourselves would be able to bring to the table at the financial negotiations when we approach that time at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128161339	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128161405	Thank you, and I think we should remember a lacquer of the lovely furniture on top of all this alcohol once we've done this. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this proposal. This is an important proposal and it is important that we discuss the stone reefs here today. In other words, we fully agree with the ambition and the good reasons behind it. For stone reefs are just fantastic because they create space for underwater life, they create space for fish to breed and hide, and there are all kinds of other things that can grow up. But they are also an important step in relation to what is also mentioned in the resolution on the whole of coastal protection and how they can be actively used there. Before this year's financial law negotiations began, we came up with a rather voluminous green proposal, in which there was also a great deal for stone reefs, and it was not all nature that we got into this finance law, even though it became as ambitious as it did, and therefore it is absolutely something that we still have on our two do-list of things to do. I myself was here in October at Hundested and visit the Dog Reef, where they have fantastic plans and visions for stone reefs, and I hope to the extent that we are going to back up and see happen. I also think that today's debate, as others have just said, is a good one, because we in the Parliamentary Assembly see quite a broad support for working with stone reefs. When we are about to start sea plans this year, and there is a pretty big focus on our garden right now, I think it might also be obvious that we are looking at a larger strategy of action in relation to rock reefs in Denmark, where you can do so and where they can be an active player in our nature work at sea. We are not going to support this proposal for the same reasons that others have had, i.e. that it is financial law and so on. etc., and this may not surprise the Danish People's Party. But the intentions and focus on stone reefs are so much something that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128161630	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128161649	I would also like to start by thanking the authors of this proposal. For there is such a need for us to have the marine environment on the political map, and rock reefs here are absolutely essential for the proper living conditions of fish and a large number of other species. For this reason, Enhedslisten has long pressed for stone reefs to be recreated together with a number of other initiatives that can recreate a richer and wilder nature in Denmark. That is why we are very pleased that we have managed to allocate 10 million. kr. on the 2021 Finance Act to inter alia: re-establishment of reefs. For nature, especially it below sea level, is screaming for help right now. Over time 55 km 2 has been removed so far we have only managed to restore about 2%, so we are in front of a huge task. The experience of recreating rock reefs is, in fact, already good. At Als, stone reefs have been re-established, and there up to 100 times more cod have been observed than before. It is therefore a success story that shows how great a potential the stone reefs have for life in the sea. At the same time, I would also like to endorse the remark made by the Danish People's Party that much of the work on rock reefs that is going on has been carried by strong local forces. Both on Als, at Hundested, in Roskilde Fjord and at Køge Bay there are some solid associations that know the local conditions and know where the stone reefs should be placed. Thank you to you who each day are struggling to create more life in the sea, and it is also Enhedslisten's wish that you should be involved in the process of implementing the 10 million. DKK earmarked for the Finance Act. Your work and your local knowledge are crucial for us to succeed in restoring the wild nature of the sea. Stenrev is therefore very good, it is a very good start, it is a sensible and low-practical initiative, but it is not a quick fix. The Danish portrait is in a poor constitution. Decades of pollution from agriculture and industry combined with over-fishing with devastating bottom trawls have left the sea in a sad state. We need to get much more of the sea out to wild nature, to put an end to the devastating bottom trawls, and to put a plug in, in particular, agricultural nutrient emissions, if we are to again experience the diversity of life that the sea can contain. Especially in the south of Lillebælt, since the fire at Danbrud's factory in Fredericia, there have been major challenges. Here local divers and fishermen report a seabed that smells sour of sulphur and where they catch virtually nothing but crabs. Both are signs of a collapse in the marine ecosystem. A potential disaster is coming if we do nothing now. The situation is therefore generally sad, and when we look beyond the Danish seas, there is not a single Danish sea area that today meets the EU's objective of a good environmental standard, just as Denmark occupies a sad third place in relation to overfishing. We can't solve that on our own with rock reefs. Therefore, the state of the sea will also be high on the list of Enhedslisten when we are to negotiate marine plan, aquatic environment plans and Natura 2000 sites during 2021. This is where we can really make a difference to life in the sea. We therefore fully agree with the proposers of the intention that more stone reefs are needed, and this is also the case with the 2021 Finance Act, and we would like to press for more funds to be found for stone reefs. But that presupposes fair and reasonable funding, and this proposal does not contain it. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128162054	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128162057	Thanks for the speech. I did not actually hear that there was anything in the content with which Enhedslisten had problems. There was something about funding here at the end. But am I to understand that the Enhedslisten supports this proposal in such a way if there is funding? And you can then ask the Danish People's Party how they imagine that it should be financed, just as well as the rest of us who support it have our funding. And is it the case that if Enhedslisten can agree with us on funding, we can implement this proposal? Because I think that, if the Enhedslisten votes for it, it would be possible to imagine that there might be a majority which could, as such, push in the direction for which Enhedslisten speaks very strongly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128162135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128162136	Well, Enhedslisten would like to help find money for more stone reefs. I also think I made that very clear in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128162149	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Egil Hulgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128162205	DF has made this proposal for rock reefs in Danish waters. In the final Finance Act 2021, the Government has prioritised 10 million. kr. for stone reefs and collection of lost fishing gear. Stenrev benefits maritime biodiversity, as everyone has said here from the platform. Around reefs, plant and animal life, algae, snails, mussels, fish and seaweed thrive. Stone reefs create a natural place of protection for sea animals and plants, and many more stone reefs are needed in Denmark. We can all agree on that. Conservatives have helped to support the stone reef at Livø in 2017. The government has supported the re-establishment of stone reefs in Roskilde Fjord and the extension of the stone reef at Gilleleje, and Als himself provides several stone reefs. I would like to mention an example of the marine environment in Limfjorden, which could certainly use an additional hand in the form of several stone reefs. During the period from 1989 to 2008, 550,000 tonnes of stone, shells and mussels were removed in Limfjorden in connection with scraping after mussels. It is therefore a major task to restore the part of the marine environment that has been lost over time. The most effective thing, of course, is to protect the stone reefs we already have left. Therefore, part of the discussion about stone reefs must also include a plan for the conservation of existing stone reefs, and the Minister for the Environment has just proclaimed this will be part of the marine plan. Stenrev can thus benefit many places in Denmark. They can be established where it makes sense, and preferably where several objectives are met, i.e. the strengthening of biodiversity, the marine environment and coastal protection. So it is also beginning to be time for us not to jump from stone reefs to stone reefs, but to have a real plan for where, when and how we re-establish those stone reefs, so that we get as much biodiversity as possible and the marine environment for the money. So we would like to continue working on that in Conservatives. We would like a more systematic approach to how to recreate rock reefs around the country. There is a broad consensus that we need more stone reefs. In the Conservative Finance Bill, which includes: In addition, there are 50 million jobs created, 34,000 jobs created, and 50 million jobs created. kr. to biodiversity, and here the Conservatives set aside EUR 20 million. kr. for the establishment of stone reefs. Against this background, we would like to be constructive in supporting the resolution, of course from some of the angles that we have from the conservative side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128162454	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we shall move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens. It's sir. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128162503	Thank you for the floor. The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution to re-establish several stone reefs in Danish waters. As explained by DF, this restoration will benefit maritime biodiversity and create a place of protection for marine animals and plants. At the same time, it will prevent coastal erosion and the replacement of shipping lines. The motion for a resolution also mentions that the shipping companies will benefit the anglers by becoming settlements for many species of fish. In new citizens, we want to safeguard the coastal waters of the fishing industry. This also applies to our maritime wildlife. In this respect, increased biodiversity plays an important role for marine animals. At the same time, we are aware that this restoration does not affect fishing in those areas, and we think this is important when we talk about regulation of our coasts. As this restoration is both beneficial to marine animals, secures our coasts and benefits fishing, we in the New Citizen can endorse this resolution. New citizens are therefore voting in favour of motion for a resolution B 96 on the re-establishment of reefs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128162616	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128162638	In the Free Greens, we are very pleased with this resolution because, as a rule, when we talk about biodiversity, we are talking about biodiversity on land. We need to focus more on marine biodiversity, and we do, among other things. Because, as Greenpeace says, half of our oxygen is actually being made at sea. This means that every second of our breath is with oxygen coming from the sea, and among other things. That's why we need to protect our blue planet. But that should not just be why, also because portrait has a value in itself and as people we do not have the right to destroy it. And we have done so in many ways, among others. by the fact that from 1900-1999 we have destroyed so many stone reefs that DTU says that we have removed an area equivalent to Fanoe, which is 55 km2. These are good, healthy habitats for fish, crabs, lobsters and food-seeking marine mammals that have been destroyed. We must restore the rock reefs in order to support marine biodiversity. Specifically, rock reefs are small oases in the sea, where life has really good conditions for unfolding. Stone reefs are breeding areas for fish fry and for marine mammals that can find food here, and in addition it is a place for snails, mussels, seaweed, macroalgae and fixed animals, and macroalgae have the fine quality that they like eelgrass can absorb nitrogen and phosphorus, thus counteracting algebras and oxygen loss in the oceans. The reefs thus have a huge significance for the fish, and the researchers at DTU Aqua record that after establishing a reef at Bredgrund in Sønderborg and BlueReef in Kattegat, the amount of cod has grown 100 times. We really do need this because if you look at herring and cod, they have been reduced by 80% and 85% respectively in the last 30-40 years, so among other things. Therefore, we should protect and restore habitats, and it should be central to the future marine plan. But it is not just about the establishment and restoration of reefs; we also need to see the larger picture. Stenrev is a small piece in relation to the whole marine environment, where we have endangered animal and plant species. We must look at fishing, especially on bottom trawls, which destroy the seabed and destroy it. On paper we have 18.3%. of our marine areas, which are protected, but according to IUCN it is actually only 4.8 per cent. So a lot of that protection is really just scratching on a piece of paper, and the reason why it is not really protected is that we have fishing with bottom towed gear that destroys the area, among other things. in the Wadden Sea and in the North Sea. Free Greens believe that we should have a national objective with concrete targets for the Danish marine environment, including rock reefs, and we hope that it will be part of the work of the future Council for Biodiversity. We are pleased that the government supports the EU strategy by 30%. protected portrait and at least 10%; strictly protected portrait, but I am concerned when the government considers it to be a pan-European responsibility and not a national responsibility. I fear that this will mean that we expect other countries to protect their seas so that we do not have to protect 30%. of our sea area, when we reach 2030. We in Denmark should take responsibility and we should take the lead. This small resolution is concrete and we welcome it, as it is a small step, but a good step, in the right direction in terms of ensuring the protection of our marine environment. However, I would like to stress that we obviously do not think that the 9.2 million. kr. in the Finance Act, proposes in 2021, 2022 and 2023. We hope that this could be more in future years, and I hope that the government, through partnerships, can make it possible for us to get more money going so that we can protect our portrait and get started as early as this year. Free Greens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128163120	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128163142	Thank you for the floor. As some of the rapporteurs noted, it is not our normal rapporteur, René Christensen, who is here. That is his proposal, and I am standing here as a substitute and can very much welcome the support I hear from all sides for this proposal. I also note that funding is, of course, being discussed. I would say that when we tabled this proposal in the autumn, it was on the basis of the fact that there was a financial bill in which the 9.2 million. kr. was removed from the effort in relation to reefs. Now we can see that 10 million have subsequently arrived. kr. As the Minister also says, we are, of course, very pleased about that. Now the effort must be about the 10 million. kr. so actually is also being used for something out there where they have to make the big difference. Therefore, what I am going to take down from this is actually that there is support to continue working on this and there is support to look at an action plan. I believe that the rapporteur of the Left said that it is also a question of getting the most for the money, and we fully agree with that. One of the things we would like to see put into this discussion is that which is also contained in the proposal, namely that when the Storstrøm Bridge is to be replaced, there are some bridge pillars, bridge structures which we know do not contain steel. You could blow them up, they could very easily be transformed into a reef in that area. It would be appropriate to enter into such an action plan. It would both be cheaper than removing them in other ways, and it would actually also bring some natural benefits. That is why we are going to take this proposal back to committee and propose that we make a report where we can get these things in and where we can actually create a plan for how to move forward together. And then I also think that we will work together to find the money that needs to be found, because I actually hear that there is goodwill in relation to that. And it's fair enough that you say they're not just dropped off in this context, but they can be. So thank you for your support and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128163353	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128163409	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128163437	Thank you, President. The proposal we are debating here today is, after all, the expiry of another broad agreement with a great many of the parties in the Danish Parliament, fortunately, and it can be said that it is also a continuation of something that has worked last year. And that is why what has happened, and what is the reason why we are here today, is, in fact, that unfortunately we still have a corona situation. We still need decommissioning, and that is why some of the problems that we resolved with the agreements of last year for some of the students are still with us. This proposal extends the provisions and agreements that have been made regarding the possibility for students to take extra student loans, i.e. extra su loans. And that is a consequence of the fact that a great many students have had study jobs alongside to supplement their income and that a great many of the study jobs have disappeared. So, of course, we support the possibility of making sure that the bills can be paid even if we are in the middle of the coronatide. Then there is something about deadlines where we need to be sure that some of those who have been in paid internship also have the opportunity to make use of this loan option, if that's what it takes to get the ends to meet. And that is why it is important that we get it extended so that the students get back to their su, that is because that is where you can apply for the su loan. So, of course, it is also an element. Finally, there is the element of applying for an increased amount of free money, that is to say the money you have to make next to your su if you are part of the corona alert. And it is to meet the students who may be involved in vaccine roll-out, testing or other things in relation to corona preparedness, so that they are not forced to repay su because they contribute to the maintenance of corona preparedness. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128163637	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128163658	Thank you. As the Socialist rapporteur has said here, this is actually a very fine little bill, following up on an agreement which the Danish Parliament concluded together back in December last year. That agreement was, of course, a follow-up to an earlier agreement, and that says a little bit about where we are. This has pulled out more than we all expected, but in that light it is very good that we can stand together to give a hand to the group of students who need to be able to take up an extra su loan. What we are doing with the bill here is extending the period which otherwise had the prospect of ending in March, and we are doing so strictly until the month of August. That's really good. I am particularly pleased that the draft law here also confirms what was important to us in the spring, namely to give a hand in helping students who make a special covid-19 effort, in the sense that if they are on the covid-19 alert and earn more money than the free limits allow, then of course they should not be penalised for it. With the proposal here, we confirm what we also decided for 2020, namely that if you are part of the preparedness, you should not repay su if you have earned beyond the normal limits of free amounts. It's really, really good. Summa summarum is a fine little proposal, which the Left fully supports. But all that said, we do not solve all the world's problems with this little bill, and I would therefore also like to take this opportunity to stress that we in the Left are very aware that the current situation is taking enormous risks for young people. There is a lot of focus on the smallest pupils in primary school for obvious reasons, but in my opinion we should also have an even greater focus than we do on what it is actually for the terms to which we leave the students. Now they have the prospect of starting virtual education for the third semester, and everyone can tell themselves that it is not, of course, comparable to the teaching that one can get if one is present at the educational establishment and not to forget the social contacts that the students obviously lack. I understand if a lot of students sit out there and have a stomach ache: What happens now to my exam? What are the conditions, what is the economy, what are the jobs I have the prospect of when I finish my education? I fully understand the concerns that very many young people carry around with them, and I can also understand that this is really something that for many people can be a stressful burden, which one might not have expected to be part of one's study life when one started training. It is just to emphasise that we in the Left are fully aware of the situation in which thousands and thousands of young people are sitting at home in front of the screen. I should like to take this opportunity to point out to the Minister and the Government that if the Minister thinks it appropriate that we give a hand to young people, we are open to it. It can, for example, be done. be additional funds for student counselling; we did so in the spring, and it may be that the time has come for us to look at it now, so that we can take into account what may come of wishes for student counselling and possibly also for student priests. We are certainly open to both. Last but not least, we are also open to a talk about whether we should perhaps look at the way in which the reform of appropriations was put together in the morning of time, and see whether there are elements of the old drive reform that we should perhaps look at, so that young people do not feel pressured by the remnants of the drive reform and, in general, the situation that is of course the responsibility of students, namely that they have to carry out their studies within the prescribed time. But the short part is that it is not the students' fault that they have gotten into a situation where they now have the prospect of starting the third semester with virtual teaching and with limited opportunities for experimenting in laboratories etc. etc. Long talk cards; I can see that the lamp is blinking here: I just want to stress that we are certainly ready to see whether we can create greater flexibility and thereby give the students a better framework so that they do not get any further ache in the stomach over the current corona situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128164221	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128164224	Thank you. I did not really think that this debate would give rise to many brief comments, but I was simply so curious about the last thing the rapporteur said about the progress reform, which is also something that we in the SF helped to lift in the spring. That is why I would just like to know whether what the rapporteur thinks is that we should dispense with, or perhaps even abolish, the performance subsidy altogether.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128164241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128164241-2	I think that's something we should look at. I do not want to abolish it, but there is something that goes without saying about the part of the reform of appropriations which is linked to employment. Quite a lot of graduates are in a very different situation today than they were in three years ago or maybe it is now 4 or 5 years ago when we agreed on the reform of appropriations. There was the job market different than it is at present. So I'm not talking about an abolition, but maybe about a break button. It is also, of course, a question of hearing what the Minister thinks it will have to do with the common objective of all of us, of course, to live up to our old agreement that education should be carried out on a standardized basis with the delay that is allowed. But what I am concerned about is giving the institutions greater flexibility to grant derogations so that Corona does not hit young people twice as hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128164353	As far as I can understand, the questioner does not answer his second question, so we thank the rapporteur. We can then move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128164417	This despriting kind of emphasizes the special time we're in. Now I'm not even allowed to cough near the minister anymore. When we had this discussion back in the spring, I actually started my speech by saying that it was a very special time we were in at that time, and it is actually still gone. At that time, we thought it was important to give students opportunities to resist. In fact, at the time we had a fight, I could see when I looked into the minutes, about raising the free amount and also about getting it clarified and getting it included in the bill. At the time, this was achieved in the form of an amendment. After all, today we have become a little smarter. Things are included, and this bill provides both for extra student loans and for an increase in the amount of free money. Of course we support the bill. We must support the students, whether it's about losing their student jobs because of the covid-19 and needing extra student loans, or whether they make money on covid-19. The emergency unit needs extra people. Although we also know now that the free-of-charge system has only been used to a very limited extent, we in the Danish People's Party think it is very important to continue to send the signal that students who can contribute to the preparedness, if needed, should also be able to do so without being afraid of being dragged into their su. We have also been able to see and it has puzzled me a little bit that those who took the extra student loans were the ones who already took student loans. I actually had a picture that it was some who had a student job and thus avoided taking student loans, but they are not the ones who use these loans. This should not mean that we should not make this arrangement, because I believe it is very important that we ensure that students do not drop their studies because of lack of funds. It's kind of just a reflection that these are funny things that sometimes show up in a process like this. I would also like to support what Mrs Ulla Tørnæs says, namely that we know very well that this is really difficult for students. We're all from a lot of people who can't quite figure out how they're gonna get through this process. There I think it is really, really important that we are pragmatic and that we do everything we can to ensure that things take place as smoothly as possible, that we can find local solutions wherever possible and that we support them in the way we can now and that, when some come to us, we also take it up and find solutions. I think we do too, but I think it is an important signal to send out that we will continue to do so. Of course, the Danish People's Party supports the bill, and I would like to end by welcoming Conservatives and saying that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128164711	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go. Okay, she's gonna drop out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128164714	In fact, I am apostate, but it was because I had actually promised the Conservatives to greet them and say that they support the proposal. Fortunately, it reached Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Thank you very much. However, I hope that Katarina Ammitzbøll, up in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is aware that it has now been said twice, from both the Left and the DF, that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128164742	Good deeds cannot be done too often. Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128164755	Thank you. That's good. Then we are no longer in doubt as to what Conservatives think about the bill. It is actually a very straightforward legislative proposal, but as many have said, it comes on top of that, unfortunately, we have to use these tools once again. And if the rumors that are currently circulating about what the Prime Minister is going to say in a press conference are true, then I think we are in a very serious situation still and again. For the length of time we have been shut down and the length of time we ask the students sit in front of a screen and receive teaching is really, really long gradually. And come on, where do we have a generation of students who are responsible and take on their task when we have asked them to follow guidelines and stay at home and do what they can to avoid social contact so that they can hopefully return to physical education again. I am so sorry when we can then look forward to it still having very long prospects. This does not mean that we do not understand it; I understand it just as much as many others, that is to say that it is necessary. But I am really sorry anyway, and that is why I have a very clear call to the Minister to have the parties of the Folketing convened so that we can talk about the professional backlog, which I think there is a great deal of understanding for there to be. Whether you are a good student, whether you have very skilled teachers, this is an exceptional situation. That is why I hope that we will be able to discuss the professional backlog with the Minister and, above all, what we can do about it. I also very much hope that we can discuss ideas and not just discuss them, but get the good ideas for the thriving in, including the good ideas that can cost some money. Because it doesn't matter that you've been sitting so long yourself, nor if you're a resourceful student. Well, now is the time to say that the resourceful will be fine. Yes, of course they should, I know that, but it doesn't mean that it's not hard at the moment. In relation to the specific legislative proposal, we naturally support the fact that the Minister will be authorised to issue increased Su loans up to August. I think that makes a lot of sense. And, of course, we also support that students should be able to take all the guards they want and can, without having to worry about whether they exceed the free amount and thus have to pay back some su. So we support the bill and send a clear call for us to have some meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128165127	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. No, she's dropping off there's something wrong with that button there. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur and that is Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128165148	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that the SF naturally supports this proposal. We were very pleased with this solution that was made last year and would like it to be extended now, especially because we have long been asking for a solution for students who are in paid employment right now and who have not been able to make use of the scheme but who could do so in the spring because they could get the loan when they returned to the programme. It is very good that they can get the extra su-loan at the back when they are done with their internship, even though I still regret the way I did in the spring that we cannot find a practical solution that will ensure that they can get it during their internship. Then it is also good that, in general terms, we are extending this until August, because we are likely to have some closure for a little longer. I would just like to make one comment on this, because it is extremely important for us in the SF that you can take an education in Denmark without having to pay for up to both ears. And we are extremely concerned about the development that is where more and more students are taking more and more loans. Anyway, when we back the extra su loan, it's because the alternative is worse. We do not want students who risk not being able to pay their rent or not being able to support their children, or what else we have received a lot of e-mails about the past few months. Expensive consumer loans must not be the alternative to this scheme. All in all, the SF supports the proposal so that we can ensure that students in paid internship can also make use of the scheme, but at the same time we believe that we must keep a close eye on debt development, both here under corona, but also in general terms. Then, of course, we are also very pleased that we are extending this increase in the amount of the exemption. Finally, I would also like to make a few comments on this subject of well-being, because I am also extremely concerned about this. I think we should do everything we can to ensure that young people feel as good as possible in the situation we are in now. It's really hard to sit at home in front of the screen day in and day out. And I guess we all know what would work. What would work was that we got the kids back physically, and we just can't do that right now. Therefore, we in the SF are ready to look at all ideas and do almost everything to help. And when the students come back to the programmes you can look at whether you can do something there also to improve the well-being. Then we will also be very happy to look at the other things that we adopted in the spring in connection with the legislative changes and agreements we made there, both in relation to Student counselling, as Mrs Ulla Tørnæs mentioned, and in relation to the performance grant, so that young people are not pressured to be ready quickly in this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128165436	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Bruno Jerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128165446	The bottom line is that Enhedslisten can also support this proposal. We think it is sensible to increase the limit on the amount of free allowances for those who have an extra income by being part of our corona preparedness. It makes sense. In other words, we are also in favour of the Minister being given the opportunity to use an authorisation to obtain additional su-loan opportunities. There is the small reverse of the medal that means that during that period students will have an increased debt, and one can say that this kind of thing is a corona aid package, in which there is not so much money, because you are just allowed to increase your debt, but everything else just like that we also support that part. But we would just like to point out that the authority given to the Minister, which lies in the legislation, we would like to have been used by the Minister already now, because in this way it is now, we are faced with the problem of others who have also mentioned it so that students are actually told whether this authorisation will be put into effect. For so far it is just an opportunity and there has not been any announcement yet from the Minister about it, but we think that is important. It is also for us what many have said, namely the security and security that we would like to try to provide, at least as well as we can, to the students who are sitting and waiting and do not know whether they have been bought or sold in relation to this. That is why I believe that the Minister can do a good job by stating that this authorisation must be used to give you the opportunity to obtain the extra Su loans. It is also good that the bill ensures that students who are in paid work experience also have the opportunity to use the su-loan opportunities. Now I understand that the Minister himself has an amendment to his own legislative proposal, so that it does not only apply until 1 August, but that it actually applies until 1 October instead. So we support that too, since it is the case that the Minister is putting it forward, at least I think it is the right way to go. But as others have said, this is only a small corner of the problems that exist. It is about economics and, of course, it is an important thing, but the whole discussion about the student's position at the moment is about their insecurity, their insecurity I think, as others have said, is something that we should take up and do something about. And I also hope that the Minister will invite the parties to discuss it so that we can get something done, because it is necessary for all students to do so, but there are therefore some students for whom it is extra important, because there are some students who are under pressure for various reasons; they may be social reasons, they may be physical reasons or other reasons that make them just on the verge of dropping out and losing their education. And it would be a great loss, not only for them, that is to say for the specific students, but also for us as a society, if there is a large group of young people who, because of corona, decommissioning, problems, and what I know, actually end up in a dead end here and may be put behind in their education for a long time, perhaps years, perhaps forever we do not know. So that is a wish, and I hope that the Minister will also deal with it. But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128165942	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128170001	Thank you. There are several of the previous rapporteurs who have described what the draft law is about, so I do not need to repeat that. New citizens support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128170012	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, and then we move on to the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128170034	Thank you for that and thank you for the many speeches that have been made so far in support of the proposal. I would like to start by sending out a thank you to the many students we have over the whole country. The Corona is hard on all of us, it puts its mark on everyday life for all of us, but it is especially a strange and difficult time to be young in. It sits in the study environment, which for some is almost non-existent at the moment, and it sits in the communities that tend to be so supportive a part of being in an education. It sits in a generation which, even before the corona, was the most lonely in our society. Many live alone, many have not formed a family, many have been dependent on a study environment that is currently not available to them. I fear that we are pushing something in front of us that will demand our attention to catch up on the other side of the corona; there is some distrust that sits in these months, not least among our young people. It is often the case at the moment that when young people and corona are mentioned in our media, it is with stories that you have parties, that you don't want to abide by the rules, that you go to Austria and get drunk. Unfortunately, there are rarely stories of the many, many thousands of people across the country who have risen to a daily life behind a screen where you take care of your studies and miss your friends again in this week, like the week before and the week before and very many weeks since March. We have, of course, from political teams all the way through together across Parliament and thanks for the priority given to our education when we have had to open and close society over the past period. At the same time, as a minister, we have also tried to stress in our dialogue with educational institutions throughout the country that even those students who were not necessarily dependent on workshop teaching or laboratories or needed related teaching, such as: Our educators and teachers • those who actually had a study on paper that could easily be conducted behind a screen and by reading a book themselves • we should also try to rotate, so that they also get to come out of the dorm room and meet some fellow students, even if it is with distance and with muzzles. We have also been constantly trying, and thanks to my political colleagues for that, to see what we could do to support the fact that a difficult time became a little less difficult. This is true in relation to what Mrs Ulla Tørnæs said about helping student counselling, so we dropped off extra money, so there was someone to talk to along the way. This is true in relation to our agreement from this summer, when we jointly say that the entire drive element, where you are rewarded as an educational institution for getting students through more quickly, is suspended. It is a question of sending out as much flexibility as possible to our educational institutions with a call that if you are delayed during this period, you can get extra su-clips. We are trying to create a framework that makes it a little easier to get through as a young student today. One of the things we can then do politically too, and that is what we have in our hands today, is to try to see how we can also address the economic concerns, because we all get inquiries from frustrated students across the country, who have lost the student job or who, because of corona, are financially squeezed. From the spring onwards, we have provided some additional economic maneuvering possibilities in the form of extra su-clips. We are continuing this, unfortunately, again. It is a system which many have benefited from over the past few months, which we saw unfortunately, it can be said, given the circumstances, is prolonging again. It is good, and it is wise, that we have an eye for the economy too, not only the professional and not only the thriving, but also the economic part of being a student. Then I am also pleased that we have a look again for the students. Many of them are educators who are in paid internship and who, because of technology, as Mrs Carøe also mentioned, we cannot give extra su-clips while they are in paid internship. Now we are continuing the system so that there is security for them too. And the moment they're back in the su system, they can also make use of these clips. As the Enhedslisten rightly points out, as a minister I have tabled amendments to my own proposal, and this is due to the consultation responses, where it is pointed out that some are in practice for up to one year, right up to 31 July. And so that they can also make use of this scheme, it will be extended until 1 October. Thank you not only for your support for this proposal, but also for our joint dialogue throughout the corona period on how we can make it easier for our students to get through this time. I would like to pay tribute to the fact that you are hanging out there, to the fact that you are still there, and that those of you who have just a little bit of profit are also reaching out to fellow students, and to the fact that the educational institutions and teachers are also doing everything possible to ensure that the quality of teaching is so high that it is beneficial. I hope we are in a different situation very soon. But until then, I would like to express my great respect for your passing through and praise for your efforts so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128170638	Thank you, Minister. There are just a few brief comments that I think we should make. It is first Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128170647	Thank you. Can't I just start with a sour upbringing? I think it is a little out of order when we have a common political agreement that the Minister then serves some parties differently from others. I understand that sir. Bruno Jerup was advised that the Minister would table an amendment to the bill here, without my party at least having been informed of it in any way. I think that's a little bad style and it's a Jutlandic understatement. But then on the positive side: thank you for the Minister's commitment to reach out and help create the best possible framework for the situation in which thousands of students are living. That brings me to a specific question: does the Minister, as Mrs Katrine Robsøe also mentioned, intend to call the parties of the Folketing for a joint discussion on how we can do this in the best possible way, so that we maintain the intention that we should, of course, complete our education and preferably at the prescribed time? And in the light of Corona: what can we do to ensure that the institutions are not forced to perhaps throw out students who would otherwise have had the prospect of being able to survive within the prescribed time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128170804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128170806	I wish to apologise in advance if there is a difference in how we have been advised about this. It is an amendment which is purely technical in nature. We've basically just moved the sunset clause. As I have said, it is on the basis of consultation answers that some of the students in paid internship could potentially get caught up or have a very small window to apply for these things. In relation to the second: I have been very pleased with the dialogue we have had on the way widely, where each time we have been able to see new challenges, we have followed the Corona situation, taken stock of it and negotiated with each other. Some of these things have been negotiated in the broad aid packages and others have been negotiated at my table. It is a balancing act that I think continues. After all, we have already suspended it in the past and given flexibility, and we have also called on the educational institutions to use it. If it turns out that this is going to take so long that it's going to be needed again, I think we should talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128170906	The questioner? No, then it is Mrs Astrid Carøe of the SF, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128170912	Thank you. It's good to get it all in. I would like to hear from the Minister what the Minister thinks about the debt the students are building. I fully agree that it is a good solution now to secure the students financially so that they can get through the crisis. But one of the things we could already see before corona is that some of what actually creates distrust is this uncertainty about the economic situation, and even before corona took up more and more student loans. So what does the Minister think about this about us increasing the possibility of debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128170949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128170950	There are a lot of things that are worrying in this time. There is the professional benefit of the courses, threatening apostasy on the back of distrust and lack of communities out there. But of course we also have to see that a great many of our students usually earn their money in industries that are currently heavily corona affected and are closed down. That is why, in my view, this is also a good solution and thanks for the support for it. I do not believe that we basically have a debt problem among our students in Denmark. Basically, you have a very low level of debt when you have finished your education if we compare it with other countries. Of course, it is based both on the fact that we provide free education paid over the tax ticket, but of course also our su system, which is the most generous of its kind. I have been very grateful for our interior design when I have compared it to, for example. American universities that are currently financially at their knees because people cannot afford to pay. There's our situation quite different. So of course we need to get a look at this, and of course we also need to follow who's taking this loan and how many people are using it. But on the basis of the figures we have so far, I am not worried. And I think it is wise for us to continue these opportunities at a time that is so financially uncertain for our students.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171104	Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup from Enhedslisten • De Rød-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171110	Thank you. I hope that the Minister does not tire of me in this way, because I am now mentioning something I think the Minister already knows what I am going to say. It's about this authority that the Minister has. This is, of course, a law of authority, and that is why it is important, as for the students, but also for us politically, whether the Minister will use that authority. As I see the situation right now, it is not as I see it, that we have to look at the time and see how it develops, i.e. whether it gets worse or something. This is bad, and I therefore believe that the Minister should have a basis for making use of the authorisation provided for in the law. And therefore, again: will the Minister do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171212	In fact, I think that we have had a very fine dialogue together across parties all the way through, in relation to when the situation was such that we had to extend things. When we give ministerial approval to this bill, it is, of course, in order that if we find that one more month and one more month is needed, then not all of us will have to go to Parliament and deal with a new legislative proposal. That is why my answer is that the situation now looks serious. We're at risk level 5. New press meetings have been announced. There is no prospect of us opening everything tomorrow. Therefore, it is of course relevant to consider whether this should be extended. But it is not something that has been decided and it will depend on developments in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171259	On 28 January the period is not long; in one month the authorization granted shall expire. That is why I wonder whether it is not possible for the Minister to make that choice right now and then say that, yes, we have to extend it beyond 28 February; we have to add a few months straight away to give a certain amount of peace to students.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171337	Yes, it is possible technically and in terms of legislation, because that is what we are discussing here. The question is how far ahead we have to make our decisions. I really think it is sensible to allow the aid measures that we have jointly decided with each other to continue to follow up or shut down our society. Right now, we have something that runs a week ahead of us. I believe that in a very short space of time we will be receiving new information on how it develops and for which groups there will still be restrictions. I think the potential extension should be based on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171421	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171425	I wonder if we could agree quite quickly here in this circle to add at least one month to the su loans; I hope so. In fact, I would like to follow up the Minister's reply to what Mrs Ulla Tørnæs asked. In fact, I would also like to thank everyone for the good dialogue we have had, but I also think that if it appears as I think it is, and as it sounds at least when we follow up on Twitter and out in the press, I think it is important that the Minister also thinks that we are in a new situation where we should at least follow up again. That is why I would just like to call on the Minister and ask whether, on that basis, the Minister could not be persuaded to have us summoned, and this should not really be understood negatively, but not just for dialogue. I also think we should have some organisations and institutions and students share in talking about how we are trying to find those things, and where it is that we support best to create some professional communities that can also become social communities so that we actually make sure we get out. I would therefore just like to ask whether the Minister would not like to call it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171550	We fully share, I actually experience across the board, the concern and, in reality, the will to look at what we can, after all, politically, when we cannot open up all our educational institutions tomorrow, which is what we all dream of. So what is it we can do instead? There are, for example: our joint efforts to provide money for Student counselling and their cooperation with other organisations such as the Valve and Headspace, and we are, of course, doing so on the back of the fact that we gave it in 2020. Did it have an effect? Was it something that battled something in a coronatide, and is there any need for further? Because then I think we should talk about it with each other so much. However, I think that, where we stand now, there is a need both to look at what we can do here and now, under the corona, but also what is really a challenge when we get to open again, so look at now, when this has been going on for even a few months, what is on the professional part, what is on the human part and what is on the economic part. I think there is a need to discuss this. I do so very much with what we have from sectoral partnerships, where all the organisations and actors mentioned by the questioner are of course sitting. But, of course, it is also something that is politically relevant to turn around.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171708	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171709	I very much agree with what the Minister says in relation to the fact that there is something in the short term and there is something in the long term. If we were to convene a meeting, could the Minister reveal what our prospects are for it? What is the short and long term for us when we are called to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171734	Well, it depends again on when we can open up and when we can sort of take stock of the overall consequence of this period. In fact, it is also a matter of mapping out, including with the sector at the table, the differences out there. Because it is very different whether you have missed any internship as a teacher student, or whether you are lagging behind as a master engineer student, or whether you are studying chemistry and have not been able to attend your laboratory, and there is a very large difference between how the various studies are organised and how the various decommissionings have affected. So there is no such one size fits all, but we will have to get mapped out what the challenges are out there and what there are of opportunities for political action. That is why it is difficult to answer in the long term, but the short term is here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171828	Thank you, Minister. No one else has been challenged by the Minister's speech. Yeah, there's a couple more; then we'll take them with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171842	Speaking of the fact that we would like to call for dialogues, I would actually just like to call on the Minister to enter into a dialogue with his colleague, the Minister for Children and Education, because over in that ministry we have had some meetings where the sectoral partnerships have been involved. In other words, it has been the educational institutions, it has been the teachers, it has been the students, and it has also been some researchers who have looked into what this looks like both with a focus on well-being and with a focus on the professional. It is, in fact, a very constructive basis for us to have a talk. I would urge that we do so as quickly as possible, so that we can actually have the basis for saying what it looks like when you look back at the time that has passed; how we can best get through the time that is before the summer holiday, which, no matter how things are going, will be different than it usually is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171942	I just want to sign for and thank you for the proposal. I am always interested in dialogue and also interested in the sector partnership coming in fully with their experience and knowledge in the light of the last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171953	Then I just want to ask if the Minister will promise us that we will have meetings like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128171959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128172000	At any rate, I would like to look into what are relevant actors with whom we might be able to set up dialogue. I mean, it's a very large sectoral partnership that houses over at me, and it's not certain that it's the whole sectoral partnership that makes sense, but I'll just go back and clarify the idea and see what we can do and what makes sense at this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128172023	Normally, the Folketing is not a savings bank where you can have saved your speaking time, but as Mrs Ulla Tørnæs would like her second question in 1⁄2 minutes, I will allow it as a new attempt. At least this is the first time I've been here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128172036	Thank you very much for your liberal interpretation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It is actually because of the Minister's remark in a reply to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, in which I understood the Minister that we do not have the overview now and that we will therefore have to wait until we get out on the other side. I would strongly warn against that, in fact, it is here and now that we need a discussion with the Minister; it is here now that there is also a need for a message to students and, above all, also to educational institutions. How are we going to deal with the current situation? How do we deal with it if a student has sat at home behind the screen and thought that he is simply not dressed well enough professionally to be able to go to an exam and then resign? In fact, this means that, in principle, you fail because there are study progress requirements. How does the Minister feel about the fact that, in principle, an educational institution is obliged, in accordance with the rules that we have, to throw the student in question out of the institution? And as Mr. Bruno Jerup, I think it was said, is of course a huge loss for the individual student, but indeed also for society. All of this is just to point out to the Minister that it is actually here and now that we are calling for a dialogue with the Minister on what we can do, what we can do, what we can send first and foremost to students, but also, of course, to the institutions. What does the existing rules allow, in other words within their framework, and should we change the existing rules, suspend some of the requirements, or what are we looking into?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128172208	Then we even added a little interest. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128172211	Thank you. Fortunately, we have now together not sat back and waited for this to end. And that means that a great deal of what the questioner mentions is, of course, something that we have already suspended in the coronatide. We have said over the autumn that there were exceptional circumstances, so there was great flexibility in organising things that they would like to do with the summer exams, and we have done so again here with the winter exams. This means that it is up to the educational institutions themselves whether they let people fail or whether they give them free trials; it is up to the educational institutions themselves if they give them extra su-cuts; it is up to the educational institutions themselves and their finances are not penalised on the basis of the fact that we have jointly suspended the rules that already apply. And, of course, there is always a discussion about how long we should let it go and what needs, for example. is when we reach the summer. I think we should discuss this together. But so far we have not been sitting on our hands in any way; on the contrary, we have given them a great deal of flexibility together, and I have the impression that it has been used.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128172316	I'm gonna take a second look. No one else wants to speak. So thank you to the Minister for today's work. As we have reached the end, the debate is also closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. And thank you to the Minister for today's housework.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128172345	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Education and Research. And the Minister for Education and Research has just made the desk clean after the Minister for Education and Research and the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128172425	This is how you can endeavor not to infect yourself. Thank you for the floor, and thank you for the proposal and for the opportunity to discuss something that lies both with me, but also with me, a broad circle in this Chamber is very close to heart, namely our teacher training. It is good to have commitment, not least in education that is so important to our children, to our society and to our future. The proposal instructs the government to submit, before 1 March 2021, draft legislation amending the law on professional colleges to create a legal framework for the establishment of a so-called free teacher training programme. As I understand it, the proposers want the new teacher training to be in Herning and give direct access to primary education. The aim is to create, and I quote, a training offer which, on the basis of Grundtvigian and cold school traditions and European information tradition, creates teachers from a student-based and Christian point of view. As I said, I appreciate the commitment. I am pleased that there are thoughtful forces constantly engaged in further developing our teacher training. Nevertheless, I must say that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. There are several reasons for this. First of all, I am concerned about the regional consistency if and if a private teacher training programme was set up in Herning. This could potentially have consequences for the search and admission to teacher training in the area. There is a string of old honorary teacher educations, which are already in the smaller end in some places, and we look into some years of falling youth years. So, compared to the combination of some small courses with limited admissions and falling youth years, I fear that setting up another teacher training in the area can create challenges in maintaining activities with the rest. I simply fear that, for example, we shall be able to find a solution to this problem. the teachers' training courses in Nørre Nissum, Holstebro and Skive could be threatened with closure. It is a concern shared throughout the area and by a number of mayors who already experience a lack of teachers in their municipalities. If these teacher training courses are not local, you can breathe fire in relation to the need for teachers in our primary school in that area. This is the case with these courses and that is also why they are so important that they are the guarantor that children across the country have access to education from skilled and committed teachers who are trained as school teachers. And there you risk blowing fire in relation to a lack of it if and if you challenge some of the existing teacher training courses. Secondly, and this is a little more of a matter of principle: whether you imagine private teacher training in Herning or free or private teacher training elsewhere, I have to say that as Minister for Teacher Training I actually want a great deal of what is in the proposal. I just wanted to do so badly that we did so with the broad teacher training, so that the ideals of freedom and education and local tonings, which I have heard several speakers in this context, actually came out to live in every corner of our teacher education across the country. There are already opportunities in the current teacher training for local tonings and professional profiles. And there is also the possibility of freedom of method. But I imagine that we can go further and that we can do even more to ensure that the commitment out there gets a little higher to the ceiling, so that, in fact, both as a teacher and as a head of education, you can put your own mark and get our teacher training done even better than it is today. In my view, this is also a signal which, if I as Minister at this stage agree to a proposal like this, could potentially be seen as a criticism of the teacher training that already exists. It has been discussed and has been done over and over again in recent years. An evaluation has recently shown that there are things that can easily be better done. And on the back of all of that there is political support for setting in motion a committee or development work where right now, speaking here, we have forces from the sector, both students and all around the students, with the programmes, with the internships, with the teachers, to sit to work to precisely develop the teacher's education and make it more alive. The criticism that it is simply to say that now we are just doing it in a single place in the country for some on a private offer, I would think was very, very unfortunate at a time when we are actually trying to send out all the political signal we can at all when we want to invest in public broad teacher training that will benefit all our children. I think we need the opposite of this. We need to stand together on teacher training and talk enthusiastically about the importance of this education, so that even more skilled young people are motivated and have the courage to become teachers. The third part, which concerns me with the proposal, is the economic framework, that is to say simply the point of saying that we are now doing an education which is parallel to what we already have and which is outside all the governance we have jointly politically decided there must be to guarantee the quality of our future teachers, but with exactly the same publicly funded framework. Finally, in relation to this whole discussion about whether we have anything inspiring on the side of public teacher training, which can potentially play a role and inspire, we already have the Free Teacher School in Ollerup, which also rests on a Grundtvigian-Coldian basis and educates teachers for free schools. And the work you do in Ollerup, I respect. But that picture also includes, and I know that there is already a focus on the fact that students who are trained in Ollerup have only a higher unemployment rate than students generally have on our teacher education programmes, and I do not think that we have a burning platform that says that we absolutely need yet another free teacher education here and now. So for the more low-practical aspect of the proposal. So, in time, it will simply be impossible for the government to come forward with the bill on the basis of this resolution before 1 March, both technically in relation to the four-week consultation period and so on, but also in relation to the fact that there are simply too many unanswered questions. What is the framework to be applied, both to the educational institution and to the training itself? It goes without saying that there is a need to clarify a number of questions for the specific proposal. However, once they have been clarified, there will of course also be a need to carry out the ordinary legislative processes with a four-week consultation period, etc. As I said, I'm excited about the commitment. I welcome the fact that there are thoughtful people who are using thoughtfulness on how to get the best education for our children in the future and how to get a teacher education that is alive, where education is at the centre and where there is local ownership and freedom to tone in a direction that also provides engagement out locally. In the end, it is of course for the benefit of our children across the country, but it is also for the benefit of our society and our future. So thank you for your commitment and for engaging in an important discussion. On the basis of the current proposal, the government will not be able to support it. First of all, because of the threat to the surrounding education in the Herning area and the consequences for the local community and the imbalance and imbalance it will give, but also because of the other arguments and the more fundamental. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173441	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kristian Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173446	First of all, thank you for the Minister's speech. It's so rare that I'm called a thoughtful person that I've noted it in my book I'm really, really happy about that. I also believe that the proposers will agree with the interpretation. I have asked if it takes longer than 1 March to get it put forward. My acquaintance on 1 March is just the time when the Folketing has a deadline for the government to make its proposals. However, should there be a majority in favour of the proposal, there will probably also be a majority in favour of a derogation. My question to the Minister is: where does the proposal or comments say Herning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173527	Thank you for the question. Now I've always thought of Mr. Kristian Jensen as a thoughtful person; I would very much like to repeat that. And I'm sure there are a lot of the proposers there are. I can only confirm that it is not in the proposal that it should be Herning, but I have taken the view that there were many of the forces behind the proposal that arose from Herning, and I have also heard Herning being mentioned a great many places. I would like to repeat that I am concerned about the regional consistency if and if the wish would be Herning. But even if it was elsewhere in the country, I think it is worth a discussion whether this is both the right way and the right time to go to the discussion about our teacher training. I have respect for thinking about possible ways of getting new inspiration into our teacher training. I share that. I'd really like to develop our teacher training. However, I would really like to develop on the basis of our common public offerings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173634	I am glad that the Minister confirms that there is no Herning in the proposal at all. Moreover, I myself have been the one who has been involved in the debate in mentioning Herning, because there are requests from people in the local area, and also from people in the Holstebro area who would like to see free teacher training as mentioned here. But the motion for a resolution will not take a position on where it should be. This must also be examined in relation to the regional consequences and in relation to the nature of the admission profile that such a school should have. And I will come back to that later. I firmly believe that such free teacher training will have a national framework for admission.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173714	There weren't much questions in it, but just one comment. So, once again, I would like to sign off on the invitation to the debate. I am delighted that it is not the case that it should be in Herning, because I believe that the later debate has also shown that it could have major imbalances and imbalances for the Middle and West Jutland. But even if it becomes a more fundamental discussion, I think there are outstanding issues where I see it as being difficult for the government to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173745	Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173748	Thank you. It is not, in fact, because I particularly disagree with the Minister, perhaps even on the contrary. But there is one thing that worries me, because I have read out that one of the initiators of the working group I understand has been the reason for this proposal for the new private education, is a pastor who has previously compared homosexuals with paedophiles and made it clear clearly that he thinks it is best if a family is made up of a mother and a father. It makes me very concerned about what the value base for the school will be. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173828	It is not a proposal that has grown in the backyard of the Social Democratic Party that we should have increased religious foundations for future teacher training. Of course, it is also always a social democratic wish, and thus also my wish, that we move into a time when we actually look with respect at people, regardless of their religious attachment, regardless of their sexual beliefs, regardless of what they are as human beings or such factors. I don't like statements that do the opposite and that put people in booths. I think that we have a proud tradition in Denmark for precisely respecting diversity and also showing that families can look in many ways, and to be able to accommodate people being different, and I think that is very much part of it when we, for example, are involved. speaks education in our primary school, and should be so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173933	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128173935	Thank you very much. Again, I very much agree with the Minister. That is also my impression, and this is not something that the motion for a resolution says, but we have read a lot in the press about the fact that this school must be based on Christianity and have more KLM hours, that is to say hours in Christianity knowledge, life education and citizenship, than the other school. Does the Minister think that this is a good priority in relation to our future teachers, or are there other things that would be more relevant in today's Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174006	Well, I actually think that general education is and should be the backbone of going to school. Being a citizen, understanding our democracy, understanding that, regardless of who you are, you have a voice and a worth, you should very much like to permeate going to school in Denmark and thus also the education of those who are going to teach our children. So I strongly believe that educating to a teacher and going to a school in Denmark should be more than just being able to Danish and mathematics. It is a very great responsibility to have our children between our hands in the formative years that it is, and therefore it is also important what we give our teacher students with. Part of the evaluation and development work under way is precisely to look at whether we can strike that balance even better in public teacher training today, precisely with the emphasis on general education and citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174104	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174108	Thank you. I think it is nice to hear the Minister speak with enthusiasm about the enthusiasm that lies in this proposal and the enthusiasm that lies in trying to create a new offer. I would really like that commitment to be there in all our teacher training programmes today, but it may not be so widespread. What I really want to hear from the Minister is: do we not have a common agenda that we want more training opportunities around the country? Then you can discuss where it makes the most sense geographically to place them. I'm pretty sure this offer will be very much aimed at something that's national, so I don't really believe it's gonna suck anything out of a local area. But that should not prevent us from discussing how it is best placed. After all, the Minister himself says that there is indeed a shortage of teachers in many areas. And there has been the question: isn't it good to have more degree programmes placed out there and, of course, make an effort to attract students? Perhaps it could be exactly the same thing as this one that was involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174208	Yes, we would very much like to discuss how we can get more training opportunities around the country. I believe in education as an enormously powerful force, both when it comes to creating freedom for the individual and a good future, but also when it comes to giving juice and power to a local community. The creation of settlements, the creation of a foundation for our companies to have the right workforce, the creation of a foundation for us to, for example, create a basis for the creation of a European Union. If we have teachers and teachers for the children in the city, it is all connected with whether we have educational opportunities. So it is an agenda that we very much want to pursue, and I certainly do not deny that there can be potential for creating new teacher training courses in Denmark. I would very much like to see public education based on the common offer that we have and that we then work at the same time to ensure that they are as good, alive and energetic as possible. We can do better today. There are a great many good forces out there, but we can also provide an even better political framework for the teacher training that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174317	But perhaps we could also use this proposal as an opportunity to create something new that can actually take the lead and actually show the way and make it possible to get a slightly more differentiated offer. Wouldn't that be an obvious way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174333	However, there is already full steam on boilers in terms of developing the current teacher training. There is already a development trail in progress which the whole sector has a very large ownership of by being precisely those who sit at the table. I would say that, rather than creating something that must then first be stacked on its feet and live and then be what is going to take the lead, I would much rather use the energy that is actually right now in the sector by giving them some responsibility to point out for themselves how their education can be improved even better. And then we must also politically have the will and the courage to perhaps also let go of the framework a little and give something more freedom out there, just as this proposal talks about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174413	Then we're going to sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174418	Thank you so much. In the alternative, we think this is a little interesting. After all, we like the fact that independent places are allowed to evolve and that things do not always have to be public. I do not see it, as I have read the proposal, as an increased religious foundation of teacher training. I see it as open to everyone, and I also understand that it does not have a particular Christian purpose with separate Christian teaching methods, etc. Of course, the authors of the motion for a resolution can elaborate on this when they come to the floor. Then I see that the Minister has some objections, of course, but I think that they are sort of put on a flybone. Because first we had it with the date, but it doesn't have to be March 1st, so I guess it's okay.? Then we had it about where the training should be, and it doesn't absolutely have to be in Herning, so I guess there's also a small flybone. Then there is another part of the Minister's scepticism which says that it almost involves criticism of the area to make this proposal, that is to say to the teachers and to developments in the area ^ that there may be some sort of criticism in proposing it. But can it not also be seen as a tribute to the area that you want to think new, that you want to inspire and that you think about the ability to renew the area yourself, admittedly in a small private bubble, but of course in a bubble that is in synergy with the whole teaching area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174552	But politically I do not want a small private bubble; politically I want the spirit and ownership and the development spread throughout all corners of teacher education across the country. I think that is my most important task as Minister for Teacher Training. And I am in full swing with this, fortunately with broad political support and with a sector that is so pine and flame in a developmental path right now, where they have already had the first meetings and where ideas are already flying around. I would have thought it strange if, as a minister, I went out and supported it, while we had put all that on our feet and had lined up a process where, hopefully, we would end up being able to give something more freedom to a teacher's education, which is very detailed, so if I were to say in the middle of it: well, okay, now I am making instead of a small private bubble and giving them freedom and, moreover, also giving them even more freedom, despite having to have the same financial framework and, incidentally, not having to have the control we have in the broad area. I would just think that was strange, and that is why I do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174658	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174701	Well, based on those assumptions, I can understand it, but it wasn't meant to be a either-or-and the bobles walls aren't that thick. It is often the case that small independent organisations inspire an entirely public area. I myself have been on the first team of chaos pilots, and you can say a lot about that education, but the inspired generations of leaders. It started by being private and was later also publicly supported. Does not the Minister himself also have an experience that private enterprises have actually been an inspiration, a core inspiration, for an entire area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174738	But think, if instead of making a small private bubble and crossing our fingers, something was then developed that could inspire us, despite the fact that we already have a small private bubble in Ollerup, which can actually do just that, and you could start by being inspired by that, if you think there's a lot there, you could say to Skive, to Nørre Nissum, to Silkeborg, to Jelling, to Esbjerg and to Holstebro: Go do your thing; have your local tonings, have your local commitment, and then across the educations learn from each other's experiences and enthusiasm and various ways into teacher training, of course with a control, in relation to the fact that we have some kind of framework for what future schoolteachers should be able to do, for it's all our children it's all about. But just a little bit more confidence and freedom in that education I think I could give massively more of what is exactly demanded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174832	It's too bad to stop enthusiasm, but we have to. No one else wishes to speak, so we thank the Minister for Education and Research very much. The Minister for Education and Research Then I clean again). Yeah, thanks for that. There will now be a good comrade or colleague, Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128174857	Thank you for that, President. On top of the Minister's speech, it will hardly come as a surprise that the Social Democrats do not support this resolution, and there are a number of reasons for this. First of all, I would like to dwell a little more on that discussion about education throughout the country, because it is absolutely crucial that we can actually ensure that there is not least welfare education. For we also need those who have to work in welfare areas to stay around the country and that those training courses are available in all kinds of places in our country. That is why we are extremely sorry if you do a private teacher training in Herning and then risk suffocating or starving local supply in the smaller cities across West and Central Jutland. In Skive, Nørre Nissum, Silkeborg, Jelling, Esbjerg and Holstebro there are courses which are currently in danger of suffering from both falling vintages coming in the coming years, but also during the fact that they already have a relatively low search because it is thinner populated areas if there is a new private education in Herning. That is why we do not think there is any basis for setting up this training. So there is simply no basis for it. And then it can be said that it is not just our assessment or that of the Ministry; it is also due to the fears of students, mayors and educational institutions, that is, the teacher training courses that exist out there. Then I could hear, and I can read the motion for a resolution, that there is no Herning anywhere. I could also listen to Mr. Knox. Kristian Jensen that it was important to make it clear. But when you're worried about Central and West Jutland, it's probably partly because it's been talked about Herning. And Mr. Kristian Jensen has himself been quoted on TV Midwest now I looked it up here on January 19th, so it is probably a week ago, to say: I do not share the concern about the education we will place in Herning. In other words, it is not surprising that people in Central and West Jutland are thinking: is it our local teacher training that has to close? That is why I think we actually owe it an answer. But I would also like to say, more generally, that I would like to see the place in Denmark where you could do this without having that consequence. The basic argument here is, of course, the following: let us say that in the middle and west Jutland in Nørre Nissum, in Skive, in Jelling, where teachers' training has now been maintained. If you then put something in a larger town like Herning and it can then draw, if you say, the basis out of the smaller educations, then the problem would probably also arise if you put it in Slagelse or in Næstved or somewhere else, because you basically as a community lose your ability to plan. We actually have an ambition for this, and I think we are sharing widely that we want education throughout the country, and if we want it, we also have to look each other in the eye and say: it costs a little to ensure that there are teacher training courses throughout the country. If we then give the opportunity for some private people to come in and actually destroy that planning, then we will also lose our ability to decide politically that there will actually be education throughout the country. I would just like to say a few words about the content as well, because it is not that one hundred per cent clear, I think what you want in relation to this new education. It may be a quality, but sometimes it also raises some questions. In other words, it is quite clear that it is the community that has to pay, and it is also quite clear that it must provide access to primary education, but it is not so clear what is expected of content and quality control. So, what is really the content of this education, and how do we ensure that it is good enough? I think it is rather a break in principle, I would call it sub-stated Jutland, that they say: we are funding it publicly, but we do not have the same requirements as to what it is supposed to do in other contexts. And we don't want the minister to have already said so... to create this parallel system for the existing teacher training. For the teacher training we have in Denmark is strong, but it also needs to be improved. That is why we have set development work in motion. And when the proposers write that you want to have greater diversity and that you want to strengthen teacher training with a focus on skills and education, it is hard to be opposed. But I would hope and believe that it is indeed our ambition for the ordinary teacher education, that is, the broad teacher education, that we should have competence and education, and that we should have teachers who understand both to motivate and to engage their pupils. That is why I really hope and it will be my prayer for this that we can throw some of the good energy that is in this proposal and in the ideas of the proposers into the development of teacher training, because so much is also needed, I think we will have a little more elbow space, that we will have a little more freedom, and that we will have a little more opportunity to tone our teacher training places in different directions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175423	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175427	In fact, it is a new opinion that social democracy is opposed to diversity in education, but I will come back to that in my rapporteur's speech. I have one question: does geography mean so much to social democracy, and if this had not been a discussion initiated by people, some of whom, but not all, are rooted in Herning, would it have been different? If it had been a discussion initiated by people living in Copenhagen and the discussion had been about an education in Copenhagen, would there have been a different approach on the part of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175504	One cannot rule out the possibility that the dynamics, if one put a teacher's education in Copenhagen, compared to whom it would, if it were to be said, be landed or taken away from the students, would be different. In fact, it is not the Social Democrats who, as a party, have been particularly concerned about the discussion about Herning, but it is the people who are currently attending teacher training courses, or who are running teacher training courses, or who have teacher training courses in their city in central and west Jutland, who have been extremely concerned and I think with good reason for the prospect of a private education in Herning. But I believe, and that is why I did a little bit of it in my rapporteur's speech, that there is the fundamental problem of political community to decide that we want to ensure broad coverage and, at the same time, allow something to be set up alongside what might jeopardize the planning we have made, that there should be education across the country. With this argument I find it difficult to see that one can place the training in a place where it would not also be a consequence, even if one were to detach oneself from Herning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175613	It is just for the sake of enlightenment: who is the one who is setting up training centres today? So, is it a political decision, or is it a decision that has been interpreted as a professional high school? Because it sounds to the rapporteur as if, as far as teacher training is concerned, it is something that we should have taken a political position on. But the fact is that it is not something that politicians decide. However, the professional colleges decide how they want to move around the educational establishments that may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175641	But what we decide politically is what kind of framework we provide, for example, for our teacher training. So, what kind of framework do we provide for having smaller educational establishments and ensuring broad coverage, or do we provide a framework that makes the only way to run school centralise it all? It is our view that we have been dragging too far in this direction for too many years and that educational institutions, with their hands on their backs and very often for economic reasons, but sometimes also for some other reasons, have become too centralised. That is what we are really trying to send out a signal, that is to say that we want to turn around, and that is also what the Prime Minister announced in the New Year's speech, to which the Minister will return in the course of the year we are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175725	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175729	Thank you. I'm wondering a little bit. Because we fully agree that we want education all over the country. We would also very much like to have more teacher training across the country. Can the rapporteur then explain to me when we now want to have more teacher training and he says in his rapporteur's speech that when one comes here, it will destroy planning, that is to say it is just one that will have to be among the many new people who will have to see how it can destroy the planning of how we should have teacher training across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175805	I am not sure I understand what it is that I have not formulated clearly enough. But what is the message is, of course, if you are a sector and there are, moreover, some political ambitions for broad coverage, that it is clear that in that sector you will look at what is needed for teachers in the middle and west Jutland, if that is the example of what you have of youth years, how you can make a recruitment and how you can secure a wide range of offers, so that we can get as many as possible. It is, of course, a planning process which is being carried out as an educational institution and which attempts to service its area as well as possible, and it is clear that this planning will be influenced by it if someone can come from outside, if you may say so, and make a competing offer. That's what the risk of this is, that is to say, that you really end up with two teacher training courses competing for it. Then it may well be that what happens is that you get a teacher's education more in Herning. But if this means that teacher training in Skive and in Nørre Nissum or in Jelling must close, then it is not necessarily a good prey.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175911	But if we now agree that we would like to have more teacher training across the country than there are today, among other things. Because there are many areas where there is a lack of teachers in fact, we know that if you can get an education in a local area, you get better coverage because you have a tendency to stay in the area. How can it spoil that planning? I can see so well that as a professional high school you don't have to place anything on top of the place where this education might be placed. But it should just help with planning, because our common desire is to have more teacher training courses around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128175948	It is not my view that it is seen as an aid to planning in the middle and west Jutland that you can sit to look at some smaller departments, and some of them are even established as such start-up departments, where it is not even in the goose-eyes that you can take, but only part of it, in order to maintain local belongings. In fact, a lot of work is being done out there, and I think we have a political ambition to make life easier for those who have an ambition to spread it out. There it is certainly not seen as an aid to the planning that some come in from the right and can outbid or be a competing offer right next door.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180030	Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180033	This is really gonna be a game of words, so I'm gonna bring some. We already have a free teacher training programme in Ollerup. They have 71 students, and every year 71 new students come. They come from all over the country, and they are trained at Ollerup for 5 years, and then they can actually go out to be teachers in free schools, but they can also take two courses at a teacher seminary and then become teachers in primary school, and actually quite a few of them do. The Minister said in his speech that they had a high level of unemployment, and that is because they have asked me for that, they become teachers a little later. They'll be up in the second half of their twenties when they're done, and then they'll have to have kids before they go out to work properly. So there's always an explanation for some things. But I just wanted to say that Ollerup is not a horror example, not even for primary school. If there is another Ollerup who wants something similar and contributes to the supply of teachers in the primary school, what can it knock over? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180153	A dispute of words, no, I don't think so. I guess I'd say that if what's the target is an Ollerup school, then why is it that we need a new one? But I also understand that you have a different ambition here than you have on Ollerup. In fact, there is also a reason why we have chosen to make an additional link before people can teach in primary school if they have gone to Ollerup. The ambition of the proposers with this proposal is to be able to enter the primary school directly, and I therefore believe that there is, in fact, another dynamic in such a competition, or whatever you like, in other words the interaction with the existing teacher training. For Ollerup, for both historical and traditional reasons, it has been there for a very long time, and it has its own trace, if you may say so. But if that's what you want to do, then I don't quite understand what the point of this proposal is. Because you have an Ollerup. And is it really a question of being bigger, or is it, because you really want to avoid having to have your two extra line subjects, and that you just have to go through an extra exam before you can go to primary school? Or what is the motivation behind this new thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180312	It's because free schools at some point a quite many years ago I can't remember how long ago it was, but it's been a long time since the teachers wanted to be trained to be in free schools, which are slightly different from primary schools, despite the fact that free schools and primary schools are friends because they support each other and they are inspired by each other because they come with a little different backgrounds. It is a huge advantage, and it is also a huge advantage for the primary school, because there are some who actually take an extra turn and then come to primary school with the knowledge they have and the attitudes they have gained in the education. That's the kind of thing we'd like to get infected with. We do not think there is anything wrong with the fact that there is competition for actual teacher training. On the contrary, they can inspire one another. That is why we are talking about it, and that is what we have experienced through very, very many years with free schools and primary school. They inspire each other. They don't hurt each other. So I think you should unlock your mind a little and be a little brave.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180429	Mrs Marianne Jelved said at one point because we disagreed about something that she had decided that she cared about the Social Democrats. I would like to say that, regardless of whether we disagree on this, I have also decided that an open mind can be enjoyed, and we can easily discuss also the ambitions of Mrs Marianne Jelved for how we do teacher training. And I would say that I also think that the mutual inspiration that could be if the different teacher training courses in Denmark were actually able to draw in different directions • so could tone themselves a little more, got a little more elbow space • we could also need in the broad teacher training. I would like to discuss this, because I think there is a dynamic coming out of it. It is also true that when the free school of teachers in Ollerup exists, it has largely been about the traditional desire of the free schools to have a place of education. After all, there are also plenty of primary school teachers from ordinary primary school teachers who teach in free schools. And that is not quite clear, because as far as I can see, the chairman of the Free School Teachers' Association is not really in favour of this new model either. So I'm not sure that's the case, because it works okay with Ollerup, we're gonna have to have more of this. Well, I thought the chairman was correcting me, but it was just on the plexiglass plate. I'm done, too. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180551	Time's up, too. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180556	It's just to continue a little in Marianne Jelved's lead. She asked very directly: What is really wrong with a little competition? What is really wrong with the fact that the public and some small private places are competing a little to be better, to be better, to raise quality?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180617	In practical terms, there may be the problem of actually losing the joint coordination of where you have the tenders. Now, sir. Torsten Gejl mentioned earlier his education as a chaos pilot, and it is a rather unique education and therefore also a slightly different discussion. In other words, if you add something new to the educational landscape, it is rather different from putting a teacher's training course alongside some other small teacher's training courses which, if not all the young people you can scrape together at all, are in danger of succumbing to the teacher's training programmes. That is why I do not think it is always possible to compare. Can there be dynamism in a private initiative? It may well be, but I would ask whether we need further private teacher training in order to really create a dynamic of the broad teacher training which I think we need, and which I also hear that both professional colleges and students would like to have. In fact, I hear that this is one of the things they are asking for, and that is why the proposers have, in a sense, momentum, because what you want to see more diversity, more freedom, is also one of the things that the field, if I may say so, has carried to the Minister and which, moreover, the Minister has welcomed and wants to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180736	What is the rapporteur's view of the ideas on student involvement and training as set out in this proposal? There is a huge perception among many pupils that they don't feel heard, that they don't feel seen and that they don't feel they can make an impression on their school. What does the rapporteur think about further student involvement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180801	I think that's really good. In other words, one can say that it is not the case that as a student one chooses whether to have a teacher who has been educated at the new school in Herning or whether one would like to have one from another teacher's education. And that is why I think that if we are to take it seriously that the pupils actually need to be involved, we must ensure that all the teachers we train in the Danish primary school really have the perspective of the quality that it can bring. So I actually think it's wise that somebody kicks the prejudices or the ways we usually do it. I think that's very beneficial, and fortunately, in such a professional field someone is doing that all the time. But the ambition must be that it will also benefit everyone if it is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180845	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. I do not see anyone else wishing to speak, and I would therefore like to welcome Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128180908	Thank you. For years we have been discussing how to strengthen teacher training. We have received an evaluation which points to a wide range of challenges, both professionally and in relation to the transfer of professionalism to practice. The evaluation points out that there is a low level of ambition among both teachers and students, and some of what I hear from students is that the requirements are very low and that many are falling out, precisely because the requirements are so low. Now the Minister has set in motion a work on what the future teacher training should be like. For this work, I and the Danish People's Party had a clear desire to involve the universities, not because the training had to be given to universities, in no way, but because it is important that professionalism be strengthened. The Minister has wanted to do this in his own way, and that is, of course, the Minister's right, but that makes me worry about the outcome of the training. In connection with the last change of teacher training back in 2013, I think it was, there was a major political disagreement about the central content of a Danish People's Party central subject in relation to education, which was also mentioned here a little earlier, in relation to the competences of the future teachers and in relation to their ability to form and understand their future pupils • the subject called KLM, Christianity knowledge, life education and citizenship. At the time, it was possible to hold on to the subject, but in a reduced version, and subsequently practice has shown that it is being implemented very, very differently and in many places is really being downgraded. This is very clear from the annual reports of the censor corps. Unfortunately, I have to say that the attitude towards ensuring education, education and understanding of Danish culture is too weak today. And the thing is, it doesn't matter how we form and train. There must be greater focus on the forming element, the inner compass. We need young people with strong specialist skills. We also need young people with strong human skills and, in this context, general education, as reflected in KLM subjects, is extremely important in teacher training. However, my experience of ensuring it on the current teacher training is somewhat uphill, makes me believe that we absolutely need an alternative, and this alternative must help to develop and challenge ordinary teacher training, show new ways and inspire ordinary teacher training. For the new teacher training has to be seen as a complement to the existing one. It is by no means intended to replace it. With the new education, we want to help create a wider offer for those who want to train as a teacher in either the primary school or the free primary schools. And, as the resolution also says, it is an educational offer which, on the basis of a Grundtvigian and cold school tradition, as well as a European information tradition, creates teachers from a student and Christian point of view. The purpose of the training is to train teachers who can contribute to education, education and freedom of spirit in Denmark as a model for school pupils. I think we need that, and I look forward to it becoming a reality. Then I'll finish with two greetings. I have a message from both the Conservatives and the New Citizens, and both state that they support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128181233	You're welcome, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128181305	Thank you. In the heading of motion for a resolution B 111: on the establishment of private teacher training. Each time I have seen it, I have regretted that I have accepted the wording, because below it says that there is a need for a legal basis for the establishment of free teacher training. So I should like to warn you now that it will not be welcomed with kindness if you call it private teacher training, while it will be welcomed with kindness, whatever is said, if you talk about free teacher training. It was a promise. We would like to have free teacher training and work for it. This is because we have many good experiences with primary schools and free schools and the way they have dealt with each other, if I may say so, been in dialogue with each other, collaborated and interacted and influenced each other in their development. It is because they bring about two different kinds of thinking at least to a certain extent. It gives a different dynamic, and that is what we would also like to transfer to teacher training, because it also needs that kind of dynamic. It is also important that we bear in mind that free teacher training should be designed in such a way that graduates can teach in primary school. That is absolutely essential, and that means that they must be able to do a great deal of what is already stated in the law on ordinary teacher training. But it is clear that the question of where the place of education we want to be should be, requires a very thorough examination, because what has been mentioned here from the platform today is totally unacceptable. In the debate on where to place it, we have to think carefully because we are at risk of harming some other educational institutions, and that is not the idea; on the contrary, I would almost say. That is why it is important that we also get a nail through and say that we have not invented Herning as a place where there will be a new teacher training, and we will not invent that either, I would have liked to say. We can also note that several communities in parts of Jutland have been very, very affected by this discussion and felt pressured. I stress that the Radical Left will ensure the development of teacher training, including how free teacher training can be included, without any other teacher training. So we would like to have good educational opportunities throughout the country, and we would be happy to contribute to such a plan, and it might be an inspiration or an invitation to the Minister to involve those who would like to be involved in the type of discussions of how we do this in the best possible way, whatever else we may come to. If we were to find solutions to the placement of courses that do not close in quotation marks, it would actually be a really good challenge to take on us, because we need to get more education out of the big cities, and if we can do it in a way that is appropriate, then it will also be a good example for others. After all, the Prime Minister had here in his New Year's speech, I think it was with us that we would like to have a lot of education in the neighbourhood, and that is an extremely important point. That's also some of what we're thinking about with this proposal. This is an important point because it will be easier to get more people to take education if it is not very far away from where you live or only in the big cities. That is why we also have to try to rethink how we place the courses around us, and I am thinking of many different courses, not just teacher training. We want free teacher training with hinterland, a wider circle of citizens and stakeholders, and that is part of what is included in free teacher education, just as it is in free schools. They have a group of stakeholders attached to them that are not necessarily parents or otherwise linked to an educational institution, but because they are concerned with discussing education and, in particular, that education, and they then join a group that contributes to it, thus becoming a link to the community and to other types of education in the area. We had really great ambitions when we made the new teacher training law, but it has really disappointed a lot, and especially we have and we are so among other things. Radical Left work very intensively to strengthen general education in teacher training. We did so with a new subject, which we called KLM, on which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has already spoken very warmly, which I would like to sign for. It was Christianity, life education and citizenship. It was the educational profession, and it is almost non-existent anymore on any teacher training. When I ask about it, people look at me weirdly and ask, "What is this? KLM is not something we are talking about today, and it shows something about how it has erode in our education system. I would therefore like to acknowledge to the Minister for her commitment that we should now do something about teacher training. Regardless of how we are placed here today in this discussion, this is something for which we all have a responsibility and we all want to contribute, including with ideas. I have to say that some of what drives me in this is the disappointment of the way teacher training has developed overland and rich, and that is not only the fault of teacher training. It is also because people have been economically hard on teacher training, and we have to discuss that too, because we cannot think about 2%. year after year, without it being felt in any way. So there are a lot of things to deal with, and the free teacher training here I'm gonna fight for the rest of my life. Then I told you. You won't let go, and I'll keep an eye on you, and so on. I'm gonna inspire and push, and I know where some people want to be in the front line. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182009	There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182015	Thank you. I have a few questions. First of all, I am very pleased to hear that it does not necessarily have to be in Herning, and I also understand from the rapporteur that it is extremely important to get more education into the current teacher training and it is also felt that teacher training, in other words public teacher training, has fallen short of quality. But is the answer not to spend the money that the rapporteur wants to spend on free teacher training precisely to strengthen public teacher training, to get education in particular, to focus precisely on the things the rapporteur is talking about, rather than spending money on a private offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182054	We do not spend money on a private offer, we spend money on a free teacher's education, I would like to make it clear quickly. And for the money it costs, you can't get general education into all the other teacher seminars that take much more than that. We can go back and see what it actually cost at the beginning, when the KLM course was new and was something that worked at all institutions. What did it really cost to have that profession back then? It might be interesting to examine it, and you could ask the Minister questions about it and get answers to that, and then we could assess how we can get that money back for the whole teacher training. In my view, it is not only free teacher training that should be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182135	I do not think I understand that the solution to the reduction in education in public teacher training is to create a free teacher training programme. I will not call it private education, even if that is what the resolution says. In fact, however, I would like to ask another question, such as my second question, because the rapporteur also says that we should be able to go straight out and teach our all our primary schools. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur on how to ensure control over the quality of this free teacher training, as is done in public teacher training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182209	It is just a practical problem that needs to be resolved. You can look at what they go to exams in, what grades they get, what subjects they have, etc., and then you can get an impression of it. You can find that out in just one place, so I don't think that's a problem. However, I would very much like to contribute to the fact that we are lifting this debate on general education, because it is really important in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182236	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. No one else has any contributions in this round. Then we move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182305	Thank you. I think I will start by saying, and I do not think there is so much doubt that the SF is voting against this resolution, and there are a number of reasons for this. Firstly, and I say this because the press has clearly stated that this teacher training should be in Herning, there is a risk that training places will be closed in the local area. There are teacher training courses in Skive, Nørre Nissum, Silkeborg, Jelling, Esbjerg and Holstebro, and in particular Nørre Nissum, Holstebro and Skive are challenged, they say in the local area. Then I also notice that a number of mayors in the area don't want this education in Herning. But even if the education is going to be somewhere else in Denmark, we in the SF can't back this up. We believe that all efforts should be made to strengthen the current teacher training following the evaluation launched by the Minister, rather than spending money on a new private or free but state-funded teacher training. It is said that there must be a focus on education and on high professionalism, that one must be able to be a model for the students when one comes out and is a teacher. We therefore believe that all this should be part of the current teacher training programme. The solution for SF is not to create a new training. In addition, we do not think that money should be spent on it. It costs the same as public teacher training with this proposal, but with an opportunity for user fees, which we can also read in the press may need to be spent on a court in the canteen or several lessons. Makes it fight on a SF like me. Education must be free of charge in Denmark, and we would much rather spend this money making sure that all teacher students receive more lessons. Then I noticed, as has already been said, that the Free School Teachers' Association does not want a new school. They say that the best way to create a new private offer is if it comes from below. It's not my experience that this has done it very much. The Free School Teachers' Association has enough in the private teacher training in Ollerup, which is precisely training for the free schools. And we're happy about that. Then you can't train teachers to teach primary school without this superstructure. And with the new school, I can read out that you should be able to go straight out and teach in primary school. I am therefore concerned about how to ensure quality and to check that they are good enough for it, and I do not think we will get an answer to that in the resolution. I have to say, and this has nothing to do with the resolution, that the debate that has also been held in the press seems to have a great deal of focus on Christianity teaching, and I do not think that is needed more than a great many other things that it is important for new teachers to take with them when they come out to teach. I think it is extremely important that new teachers have a modern view of the world and that, of course, one can form and be a model for the pupils to be taught, but one must be able to do so directly from public teacher training. All in all, the SF cannot support this proposal, whether the training is in Herning or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182644	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182649	Thank you. Now the rapporteur speaks a great deal about the general education that we have, and it is of course also relevant to look at. That is why I need an answer to one question. Will the rapporteur and the SF contribute significantly to strengthening the KLM subject in the current education, so that we can come back to the ideas that were in that subject when it was originally created?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182713	I think it is extremely important that we ensure that there is proper training in teacher training. And if you do it very well through the KLM subject, then we have to look at it, and we have to look at that quality is in order and that there is education through the public teacher training. Well, let's finally talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182732	When I ask, it is of course because in the previous debates on primary school we have had some challenges with that, among other things. SF didn't want it to have any violent strength. But then I also have a supplementary question about the agenda that we have in the Danish People's Party at least, that is to say that we want education throughout the country, to a large extent welfare education. And now that it becomes a big problem that an extra teacher training is being placed somewhere, does this mean that SF doesn't want that development where we're actually going to have training in several places in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182810	I really hope that the questioner is aware that the SF is very aware that we need education throughout the country. I take note of the fact that local rectors and mayors are nervous that a number of public education services are likely to close if a new private teacher training programme is being carried out in Herning, and I think we should take this very seriously. This does not mean that we should not extend the offers for special welfare education in the rest of the country, but we must make it smart so that it does not close other offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182842	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182844	It's a little too bad it's so hard to talk. There will be no new teacher training in Herning. That has been said several times. That's not the plan. It is planned to find a place where there is a movement that is prepared to accept such teacher training and that wants to contribute, as is the case in free schools. Because we must always have a movement that comes from below if we are to have something free to lift up. And it is not free to continue to talk about teacher training in the way it was said there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128182926	That's exactly what I said. I do not see that there is such a great breeding ground. For example: Free School Teachers Association doesn't support this. It has to come from below to create a new offer. Fine, let's stop talking about Herning. But if you have talked about Herning so much, then we will also have to do so in this Chamber and say that it is problematic to create a new offer in Herning for the surrounding public offerings. I think we should take this very seriously, because it is extremely important for the SF that we have those offers around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183007	I repeat: there will be no new teacher training in Herning; nor will the free teacher training be there. It has never been the plan, and it is not written down anywhere, but it has just spread because some of the people who are behind the idea come from Herning. But that does not mean that the place to be developed should be in Herning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183036	As I said, I am very pleased about this, because it seems clear in the local area that they do not need it. Nevertheless, we still cannot support this, because we think that the money should be spent on better public teacher training and we do not think that this supply is needed. There is a very fine offer in Ollerup and we would rather use the strength, the money, the means to strengthen the teacher training we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183104	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Carøe. There are no more comments. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Bruno Jerup from Enhedslisten • De Rød-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183129	Thank you. I could almost make this short, I'd say. I almost agree with what Mrs Carøe said and with what the Minister has said. That's why I might be able to cut it down a little by the end of the day. We see no need and no reason to make a private bubble. I know that Mrs Marianne Jelved does not like me saying that, but the headline now says that it is private and it has also been presented in the press and elsewhere as private. We are not in favour of private universities, private teacher training and private bubbles. What we are in favour of is strengthening our current teacher training. And I agree with what the Minister has said, namely that what we need there is simply to develop it so that it has a greater freedom and opportunity for development within the framework. I fully agree that there may be some criticisms, but to solve the problem of thinking that there are some shortcomings, or that there are some qualities that are not yet present, by making a private bubble to compete with public education, we are not in favour of. In line with the mayors who have spoken, we are also concerned that such a private bubble is fully financed by the state with funds at the same level as all the other professional colleges. We do not think that is right either. And the mayors who are concerned are, of course, concerned because of the debate there is. Now Mrs. Marianne Jelved says: Well, it's not going to be in Herning. Well, how does Mrs. Marianne Jelved know? It's in Herning that comes the forces from below that Mrs. Marianne Jelved is talking about. That's where it started. That's where there's, like, those powers from below that would like to make this private bubble. So it isn't in Copenhagen, as somebody has talked about in the past, that there should be such a network from below that would like to be allowed to make such a private bubble. No, it's in Herning. That's why it's no coincidence that you talk about Herning. I therefore understand that the mayors are concerned that they can look forward to some public teacher training closing down in those areas. Then there has also been the debate: should we not just have as many teacher training courses as possible? Well, there might be someone who thought that we in the Enhedslisten are just in favour of there having to be as many teacher training courses as possible. After all, however, we have some sort of relationship with some kind of dimensioning, with regard to what is of demand, what is needed, and with regard to how it is to be geographically distributed. So, the thing about just like saying that there has to be a teacher training in every city in Denmark, because that is what we think is good, is certainly not a line that I think sounds very sensible in terms of training planning. But this is not the same as not saying that there should be more education in the country. There must be, and the reason why there must be more training courses does not necessarily mean teacher training courses in each and every part of the country, but in general training courses abroad is that we know that the geographical distribution of training offers across the country helps to increase the proportion of young people who take education at all and thus increase quality, as it were, in society. So that's kind of the way it is. Well, we can't support this proposal. We support the efforts and work that are being made to make efforts in relation to public teacher training, so that it is given a freer framework and has the opportunity for some dynamics, too, in terms of professional development dynamics. That's what's gonna be our aim. Once again, I think it was Mrs Marianne Jelved who, in one of her questions, took up something about the fact that the teacher training had been eroded with that 2-percent saving. Perhaps someone in here could relate to that, because I agree with Mrs. Marianne Jelved on one hundred percent, but is the answer to making a private competitor because you have slaughtered or cut a proper chunk of public teacher training?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183653	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183657	Thank you. In other words, when I am so fond of the free schools, it is because they interact with the primary schools. They are different in their educations, but they are fucking good friends, and they inspire each other, and they have a little competition with each other. Similarly, you could have free teacher training. Ollerup's free teacher training takes up 71 students every year, and I estimate that the new teacher training programme, the free teacher training programme, will take up about 50 per year. It is therefore limited what 50 per year can do with accidents in the established teacher training. Perhaps it can inspire that is the idea, because there will be a little competition. And in the Radical Left, we actually agree that competition is healthy, because more effort is being made. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183805	First, in relation to the number, that is, that 50 are not so many, I would say that it is, of course, if it is the case that one places oneself in the middle of a cluster of public primary schools, where there may be 50 or, as in some of the examples, 32 or 45, such a competitor who comes into such a cluster there, is certainly experienced as many, if the number is correct. The number is probably a catch in the air, for you know nothing about that in terms of how it will develop. As far as competition is concerned, I am not in favour of competition between private and public sectors. But I am in favour of establishing primary school teacher training so that there will be dynamism in public education; in other words, there will be diversity, there will be the possibility of developing different schools, perhaps with different profiles and different directions and thus, it can be said, also a form of competition between the public teacher training courses that exist. There will be indirect competition between them because they are, like, allowed to create different profiles, and thus there will also be some dynamism. I am in favour of this, but I am not in favour of competition between private education and public education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183941	Sir. Kristian Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128183946	If I understood, sir... Bruno Jerup is right, Enhedslisten is in favour of having more educational establishments, including in the area of teachers. Could Mr. Bruno Jerup so point to a Danish map and say, where do you want it to be? If you think that a location in Herning should be problematic, and I understand that it is where on the Danish map, when you look at the current distributions of teacher training, will Enhedslisten point out and say: Here we want more education?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184021	But now I have to say that I have not said anything about there having to be more teacher training. I don't think so. I have said that there must be more training geographically in the areas, in other words in the country. Over time, there has been a tendency towards centralisation in which education has, as it were, been pushed to the larger cities, and the process of that movement, I think, has been unfortunate. So we are in favour of the geographical spread of education in general. I did not say that there should be more teacher training anywhere. It may well be that it should, but I would say that depends on a concrete assessment and planning, in relation to how the population base develops, both people who need education, but also the needs we have, in relation to how many who will subsequently be taught by the teachers there. So I don't think you can. I'm pretty much in favour of some planning in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184133	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184134	I understood the rapporteur's line of reasoning that there should be a diversification of educational establishments, because proximity to training meant something, and I also understood that the rapporteur agreed that there was a need for more young people to seek the teaching work, and if the two things were put together, I understood that it would also be pointed out in relation to teacher training. But may I ask whether the rapporteur thinks that closeness to education matters, in relation to whether you are looking for it, stopped, for example, from doing so. The Free Teacher School in Ollerup has a higher student intake from the Copenhagen area than it has from Funen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184214	I certainly believe that distance is important for education, that is to say for whether you take the training and that the fact that you have a relatively local connection with an education, because you may already live in the area, has an impact on how many people, like those seeking, and how many people actually complete and complete the training they start. I think there is evidence of this. That's kind of my approach to it. But precisely when the rapporteur mentions Ollerup, it is not a school where people sort of gather in the local area. That's exactly the kind of person who takes from different places. So I'm not sure if the geography and proximity of this thing can be transferred there in relation to Ollerup, but which is also a different type of education than that of Mr. Kristian Jensen is trying to make such a private bubble.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184321	Thank you, sir. Bruno Jerup. There are no more brief comments. And we've got greetings from Conservatives and from New Civils, and I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184352	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we are pleased with small, free, independent organisations that shake up their territory, and we do not really have anything against competition in the sense that good organisations, private as public or free as public, even say "inspire each other' and compete slightly on quality. And it is not even the case that we only see it as competition, but we also see it as synergy and inspiration when teachers from a free school who think a little differently come out and enrich the other schools with good examples and new ideas. You can also, as Marianne Jelved says, interact between good friends who take the best from each other and share the best examples of good methods. On the other hand, we often get a little skeptical when you argue against innovation because it destroys planning in a sector, and with Enhedslisten's presentation from up here, that sector thought simply becomes almost so heavy that I think it gets quite gray. I see the gigantic state before me and a very, very large public apparatus that apparently needs to renew itself by competing against itself. Now I have worked a lot in the public sector, but I have also worked a lot in the private sector, and I have been an entrepreneur for many years, and I have had many public customers, and if there is something I think the public sector is not good at, then it is to compete with itself. I love when new thinking comes from independent organisations and self-serving institutions, and it does not have to be profit-making, but it may well be more independent organisations that have the fire, that glow, and sometimes the one that is a little difficult in terms of survival, which may make you think a little more creative. In the alternative, we like smaller states and more communities, and that does not mean that we do not have great respect for the public and that there are many, many tasks we do not think We see it as a public innovation, a fundamental innovation of the public, that we have some independent places that think new thoughts. With regard to the Christian starting point that is being discussed, in other words, where it is called Christianity, ability to live and citizenship, I thought at first: what does that mean? Does this mean that there are people from other minorities who are not welcome? Or does this mean that there is a special Christian starting point? So I asked that question, and there I was reassured, and there I feel so little that when the Radicals want to join, it is probably not because this is not open to various ethnicities and diversity. So I was reassured on that point too. As far as the date is concerned, we have found that it doesn't have to be March 1st we can do it at the pace that suits us and with regard to the place we have also found out that it doesn't have to be Herning. So I've gotten away with good arguments against this resolution, so it's going to be the alternative to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184721	Thank you for that. There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184724	Thank you. The rapporteur talks a lot about innovation and that it should come from civil society. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what are the local forces that the rapporteur sees as having to seize from below? Does the rapporteur see that there are some forces? I don't see it. I see that the free schools are not interested. I see a few in Herning, but it's not supposed to be in Herning. So where is it that the rapporteur sees these initiative-driven civil society forces?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184758	That is what is important, in other words, to find out where there is currently a layer of growth, a melting pot, an environment that wants to raise these thoughts in a particular geographical location. I haven't been out combing Denmark for growth layer resources on this area. But I have no doubt that they exist and can be sought out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184832	However, the rapporteur agrees that such private civil society activities are rarely very good if they come from above, for example. from us, and does the rapporteur agree that the breeding ground that has existed so far is in Herning? I understand from the rapporteur that we are not interested in this training being in Herning either. So if there are only local powers in Herning, should it be in Herning, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184859	I think we have settled this Herning question. When it comes to how creativity arises, how innovative organisations arise, or should they come from below, or should they come from above? Whether it starts by setting a framework from above that skilled innovators can exploit, or it grows from below, where you see that hooves, something that we have to frame, I think are different. So I don't think you can automatically say that this type of school doesn't have a time on earth, or that this type of teacher training doesn't have a time on earth because it's something we create a framework for in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128184945	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we're just gonna have to wipe the table off for mr. Jensen. It is true that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion is Mr Gundelach. Kristian Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128185012	First of all, on behalf of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I would like to express my thanks for the debate and for the many positive comments that have been made along the way. I will come back to them later. Let's just take a dive back to an earlier day in this hall. On 21 February 1980 the Folketing dealt with L 122, a draft law by the then Social Democratic Minister for Education, Mrs Dorte Bennedsen. It was a bill to establish the State Aid Act for the Free Teachers' School and the Necessary Seminary. In the comments to the bill, the then Social Democratic Minister for Education wrote: "The Ministry of Education considers that it is in good accord with Danish tradition that there are alternatives to the usual education of teachers for primary school. ▪ It was actually wise to say that or in this case written. But it was wisely written, and it was wisely meant, and it was wisely thought, and it was a good debate. I would like to say on behalf of my party that our rapporteur at the time was a little sceptical about giving support to the necessary seminary. There were several different positions, but there was broad agreement in the Folketing that alternative paths to teacher training should be supported. I think that the SF's then rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Bentsen-Pedersen, said: we think it is important that new ways should be shown in this area. And the Enhedslist didn't exist then, but Mr. Bruno Jerup's predecessor in VS, sir. Steen Folke, criticized the bourgeois parties for their limited liberalism because they did not fully support the Necessary Seminary. In other words, what we have listened to and noticed is that there has been a desire to try out some things; a framework for how to train oneself as a teacher for the Danish primary school, and for that matter also for free schools, afterschools, colleges or other places, but there has been a desire for a different way of emphasising some other things that one has a feeling of shortcomings in the current teacher training. I am therefore very pleased, like the Minister, that there is a commitment and a feeling that we need to talk about content and values and about the role of teachers in the future. I just don't think it has been successful when we look at the many attempts that have been made to extend and change public teacher training. That is why I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Torsten Gejl in that what is often happening is that if there are some places where both and that is also what Mrs Marianne Jelved has mentioned as her explanatory statement and as the Radical Left's justification for supporting this proposal, namely that sometimes there is a need to test things. The Folketing in 1980 agreed entirely on this. However, I must admit that I have not read through the whole debate, but I cannot actually recall that some of the speakers were opposed to a fruitful symbiosis. And that is why I am glad that, when I count the seats of the parties together today, and I would also like to welcome the Liberal Alliance, which was not able to be here, and say that they also support the proposal, there will in fact be a majority in favour of establishing free teacher training on the terms and conditions mentioned in the comments to this motion for a resolution. I see a lot of people who have had a discussion that may have been marked by the fact that part of the public debate also comes from the fact that some of the idea people behind come from my home town, Herning. I want to make it clear that I support a free teacher training course, whether it is in Hanstholm, Hellerup or in Herning. And some of the people who are behind it are, for example: former Professor Michael Gøs, who lives in Holstebro, and this is High School principal Thue Kjærhus from Rønshoved Højskole. And in fact, Rønshoved has been a meeting place for many of the people who have discussed the thoughts behind and presented them to me, that is, who have presented the idea of creating a new teacher training which can provide an alternative path and which will, in my view, create a constructive conception between public and free teacher training. There has been a lot of talk about what would happen if you placed a teacher's education in Herning. And I say Herning, knowing that the motion for a resolution has not taken a position at all on where it should be. It requires that there be an organization, some roots, some people behind it that will bring this forward, and I think that there might be several places. But what if it was placed in Herning? The only thing we can compare with today is now that the Necessary Seminary in Thind no longer exists... is the Free Teacher School in Ollerup. And out of the three, only one was from the local area. It must then be said that at that time my mother had moved to Osted and then chose to move from Osted to South Funen, and my father chose to move from Sinding, and my younger brother chose to move from Bøvlingbjerg to take their education in Ollerup. Ollerup is indeed a nationwide offer, although it is located on South Funen, and what is at least my intention behind setting up the free teacher training is to provide a teacher training which in a number of areas is I have no wish to harm the teacher training in Nørre Nissum, which is close to where I grew up. I have no desire to harm it in Skive, in Esbjerg or in Jelling or in any of the other places that have been mentioned. You just have to say that when you look at a Danish map of the current teacher training courses I cannot show that here, because you can't get it in the record, but I'm actually looking at a Danish map of where the current teacher training courses are... they're quite decentralized in Denmark. So if you have a desire to create more teacher education or have a desire to support a free teacher education, there will therefore be a talk about what this will mean for the teacher training courses that are close to you. But my clear premise and my idea behind this has been that we should have a teacher training course that could draw national and not a regional education institution. It should have a profile in the same way as in Ollerup, where they have had more teachers from the Copenhagen area than from Funen, so that it would also attract widely. In relation to a few of the criticisms that have been made, I would say that I assume that those who want to have KLM in the teacher training which we have in public today also know that the K is responsible for Christianity knowledge. And it is my clear conviction that education which must be able to obtain state aid must not be rooted in such a way that one cannot go there without being a Christian. But that is the point of view, that is, the basis for the KLM subject. And the wish has been to be able to create a school, which also places emphasis on the concept of education of which the KLM subject is, in itself, an offshoot. With regard to what has been mentioned, in terms of whether there is quality in such an education, it is assessed according to essentially two criteria. One, however, is that we have chosen to write that the so-called Ollerup test, which teachers who are trained from the Free Teacher School in Ollerup must take in order to teach a primary school, must be an integral part of education in the free teacher education. And this means that there will be an approved test, the Ollerup test, which ensures that the professional level is in order. The second criterion is quite simple, of course, whether the schools will hire them, i.e. whether the municipalities will hire them afterwards. And I have no doubt that you will take a positive view of that. I also believe that some of the things that have been said about the details, that is to say about the date and other things, we shall find solutions along the way. I am also sure that we will find solutions in relation to the fact that in the place where free teacher training must then be established, there must of course be an opportunity to interact with other educational institutions in the area, and there must of course also be the possibility that there can be an interaction in that home municipality on an equal footing with professional training courses at the university colleges that we have around. I am very pleased to note that most of the comments that have fallen are actually positive. And I hope that along the way we can convince the doubters and sceptical voices that have been so that we can have an equally large majority behind it to create an alternative path for teacher training this time, as there was when it was last done back in 1980.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190016	It is no longer than the President-in-Office of the Council remembers. There are three short comments, first Mrs Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190026	Thank you. I can hear from the author that, although it is not in the proposal that this training should be in Herning, it is certainly not something that will be rejected, and I can also read out that the author himself said earlier that the proposer expects or imagines that this school should be in Herning. So it is not a denial that the school should be set up in Herning by the rapporteur? I just need to understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190057	I support a free teacher training course wherever in Denmark it is placed, and I believe that it will attract its entry from all over the country because it will be something other than what you can get at all the other professional colleges, and also something other than Ollerup, as it educates you to go straight into primary school. But is it a guarantee that it is Herning? No, it is not, and then we would probably have written it into the resolution. Is it for me personally a refusal that it might be in Herning? It is not if it is the only place that offers a basis for it. This is not something we are making a decision on here. It is something that is a discussion about what content one wants to have in a free teacher education. Where that teacher training should then be, it will also be necessary to assess what the importance will be for the surrounding educational establishments and what it really is for a network, a basis, a popularity that may lie behind such a place of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190200	Okay, but I'm glad it's neither a guarantee that it should, nor a guarantee that it should not be in Herning. I'd like to ask you something else. The rapporteur has said, I have read out that this school must be able to create education and serve as a model for pupils both in primary and in free schools. I would therefore like to hear from Kristian Jensen whether it is not felt that teachers coming out of the public school today are already role models for the pupils. At least I myself have experienced having many teachers who were role models for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190235	I would like to say that I too have been very pleased. I can still remember very especially my mathematics teacher from the 9th grade, who was a fantastic inspirator to delve more into the world of mathematics, and therefore I also think that there are a lot of teachers who are role models. But I have no experience that it is a desire, a goal of the training itself to create them as role models. And it is, of course, one of the things I would like to see introduced as a parameter in the education that it is a purpose to create authoritative teachers who can be role models for their pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190314	Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190316	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I guess I'm gonna have to hold on to that discussion about the location. Because I think in some way that the answer from Mr. Kristian Jensen, when criticism is raised, concern in the local area in the middle and west Jutland, is that it is not at all certain that it should be in Herning. But then when we look at TV Midwest, Kristian Jensen is quoted as talking about the school that is intended to be established in Herning, and that the election parish priest Morten Kvist, one of the driving forces, writes in a chronicle in Kristeligt Dagblad that a political majority has been succeeded in establishing this in Herning, is so Mr. Morten Twig running with half a wind? Or is it really just because there are actually some concerns in the Middle and West Jutland, as Mr. Kristian Jensen does not really want to answer and therefore says that it is not at all certain that it will be in Herning? In other words, we need to find out whether there are some people here who have been promised that this is their education, or whether you actually take seriously the concerns that are in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190419	I say the same thing in the Chamber as I say on TV on the Midwest, namely that the motion for a resolution does not deal with geography, but that I know that there are some forces in Herning who would like to establish it. But those powers go beyond Herning. Well, Rønshoved Højskole is quite far from Herning, and Holstebro is even closer to Nørre Nissum than Herning is. What is common to them is that they have an idea of what kind of teacher training they want, and I would support having a private alternative, some that can inspire and fertilise each other in relation to public teacher training. I will support that, no matter where the geography is. When there are some in Herning who work for them to offer such a school, it would be quite strange if I would be sad, as I myself am resident and elected in Herning. But the motion for a resolution does not deal with any geographical location here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190526	No, you have to take that for good goods, but I can still understand that you may think so in the middle and west Jutland when the quote is: I do not share the concern about the education that we will place in the Herning It's sir. Kristian Jensen, who tells TV Midwest, and then I understand that it is being considered. But for another question. 'Cause I actually think, sir. Kristian Jensen is hurt in his enthusiasm for this private alternative to training to say some less flattering things about the general teacher training we have. So I would really like to give the rapporteur an opportunity to speak up about the teacher training and say something nice about the teacher training we have, also in the broad sense. Because I actually think we owe that to the very many students who are in the middle of it right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190613	I am very pleased that we have a great many young people who go on teacher training. On the other hand, I am very sorry that we have such an apostasy on teacher training as we do, and I think we actually owe it to us to do more to strengthen teacher training as it is. For it is an incredibly important role in society to be a teacher for our children, not only in terms of providing them with professional knowledge, but also in terms of providing them with society, teaching them to act in a community, etc. That is why we actually owe it to all those who wish or have chosen to become a teacher not only to work with free teacher training but also to work with the raising of public teacher training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190653	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190655	Thank you. It is a little bit historic today: Denmark is going to get a new free teacher training, because the proposers have managed to create a majority around the government in relation to making this succeed, and it is not easy; it is a few times a year that it succeeds. So you have to keep that in mind when it happens every once in a while. So I would like to sign for that, and I think it is a good job, and it is exciting that there are so many different parties that can meet about something that makes sense to all of us. Now it is the case that it has to go to the Ministry, and I also hope that it is the enthusiasm and positive approach that I also think the Minister and the Minister's rapporteur will continue this work. It is clear that, since it is now going to be more wide-ranging work, no one has a veto in relation to where such training should be located. We have to find out, and now we have to find out the other important things together. Because that is what happens when a government is forced to take in a proposal and get it implemented. But I just want to sign for the good work that the proposers have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190818	Thank you for that, and I shall pass on that praise immediately. I have not been alone in this, but there is no place outside the coronate for us all to stand up here, and then there is one who will be rapporteur for the proposers. But it has been a dynamic work, how many have invited in with how we should formulate the words and thoughts about this, and it is actually a work where many with different backgrounds, also outside Christiansborg, have given me their views on it. That is why I also believe, as we discuss the matter further, that there will be more people thinking about it, because we in Denmark have a tradition that, when it comes to the work of the spirit, which being a teacher is, of course,; it is a work of spirit that is a diversity and a free mind that we must pay tribute to in Denmark. And I hope that the Minister will take this further in the work that has to be done once the resolution has been finally adopted here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190919	The questioner? Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128190923	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm what I am saying now: I have never ever mentioned Herning as a place where such a free school of teachers should be. We have not discussed it; I have not discussed the location of it with any of those who are co-sponsors of the resolution, and I have said from the floor of Parliament that it will not be Herning. So the Radical Left does not contribute to free teacher training in Herning. That is, of course, the consequence of what I have said today, and I would recommend that such an institution be set up in a place where there is a community that will be pleased about it. Otherwise, it's uphill. So people throughout Denmark are allowed to discuss with each other: Should it lie here with us? And then I guess we'll hear something sometime. Can we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210128191027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128191028	I can fully confirm that there is no Herning in the motion for a resolution, and I can also fully confirm that we have never discussed a geographical location of it. I must also repeat what I said from the outset: I support the idea of free teacher training, no matter where it may be established in the country. For me, that is not the most important thing where it lies in the country. The most important thing is that an alternative way to being a teacher is created, because I believe that diversity here can help to improve education. Whether to call it competition or to call it freeness of speech is probably up to one's own mind what one does. However, I believe that diversity here can help to improve both existing teacher training and future free teacher training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128191113	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128191115	I would like to sign, and I would suggest that we might call it a noble rivalry. This could also be a way of tackling it, so that it is not exactly the competitive parameter all the time, but a rivalry to get well from the country and well in line with the teacher training to be given. We can agree on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128191138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128191139	I like the expression rivalry. Where the competition is a word that many associate with the fact that there has to be one who wins and one who loses, then competition is perhaps more a word that expresses a desire to promote the best and bring out the best result, and then there must necessarily be one that goes a little further than the others, at least if it is the long jump that is being raced for, but that it is not to win over anyone, but to promote its own abilities in the best way possible. By the way, that was the expression used by the ancient Greeks about the first Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128191213	Thank you, sir. Kristian Jensen, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210128191242	There is no more going on in this meeting except to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 2 February 2021 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
