ParlaMint-DK_20210429100005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup): Bill no. L 225 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law authorizing temporary derogations from the provisions on physical attendance at the general meeting of the statutes of undertakings or similar agreements relating to covid-19. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. L 226 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 227 (Proposal for a law on the right of residence) and Bill No. L 228 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners, the law on Danish citizenship and the law on integration. and various adjustments to the rules on employment, private accommodation and accommodation in own funded accommodation for asylum seekers, clarification of the provisions for the implementation of separate accommodation for married or cohabiting minors, and enforcement of decisions on the placement of unaccompanied minors, and re-establishment of declaration access for former Danish nationals, etc.). Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill No. L 229 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Nature Conservation, Forests Act, Animal Welfare Act, Law on Field and Road Peace and Road Traffic Law). Bjørn Brandenborg (S), Carsten Kissmeyer (V), Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Signe Munk (SF), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), who sails the circle (NB) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and Torsten Gejl (ALT): Request no. F 59 (What can the Minister say about the Government's future energy policy initiatives in the light of the energy policy statement?). Jesper Petersen (S), Sophie Løhde (V), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Karsten Hønge (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Mai Villadsen (EL), Mette Abildgaard (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB), Alex Vanopslagh (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Jens Rohde (KD), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam (SIU), Edmund Joensen (SP), Sjúrður Skaale (JF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Inger Støjberg (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG): Request no. F 60 (What can the Prime Minister say about the domestic and foreign policy situation?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written Energy Policy statement 2021. 16). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 11 May 2021. From members of the Folketing Marie Bjerre (V) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), who are on leave, I have received notification that from 1 May 2021 they will be able to rejoin the Ting. Maja Torps (V) and Merete Scheelsbecks (KF) the duties of temporary members of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Before moving on to the next items on the agenda, which are votes, I would ask you to check that your name is on the voting panel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100223	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100247	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 2 (NB). The proposal has been adopted and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100313	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100328	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against which 0 abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100350	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100407	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 52 (S, SF, RV, EL and ALT), against 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 1 (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100434	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100503	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and ALT) voted against, 0 abstentions 1 (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100527	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100540	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100604	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100626	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 88 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100652	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100658	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 24 (SF, RV, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 73 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100727	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100740	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429100757	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we are done with the votes. I have to postpone the sitting until 8:00. 10.20. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 10.20.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429102014	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429102032	Thank you, President. The aim of the draft law is that the Swedish State Transport Buyer Trafikverket, in agreement with the Minister of Transport, can purchase night train traffic as public service traffic on the railway line between the Danish-Swedish border and the Danish-German border. The reason for the bill is that on 23 July 2020 the Swedish Government gave Trakverket the opportunity to purchase night train traffic as public service traffic through Sweden and Denmark with traffic start on 1 August 2022. It is intended that traffic should contribute to the establishment of international night train connections with daily departures from Sweden to other European countries. Against this background, the training includes the two routes Stockholm-Padborg and Malmo-Padborg, which are intended to be extended to Hamburg and Brussels respectively. To make this distinction clear: In Denmark and Sweden, traffic must be carried out as public service traffic, so-called PSO traffic. South of the Danish-German border, trains must run on commercial terms as so-called free traffic. The draft law only concerns PSO traffic through Denmark. It follows from Article 1 (1). Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 1370 of 23 October 2007, also referred to as the PRS Regulation, that Trafficverket cannot easily purchase public service traffic through Denmark. Thus, prior to the purchase of cross-border PSO traffic, an agreement must be concluded between the competent authorities of the countries, in this case the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport. The operator intends to award the contract or contracts in August 2021. On 29 January 2021, in order to calm the procurement process, the Ministry of Transport and Trafiskverket concluded the agreement on night train cooperation annexed to the bill. The general requirements for traffic are set out in Annexes A and B to the Agreement. This is true, for example. number of stops in Denmark, number of seats per. years, comfort classes and departure and arrival intervals in Malmø and Stockholm. The bill concerns the consent of the Danish Parliament under Article 19 of the Constitution to the final accession of the Minister of Transport to the agreement with Trafikverket on behalf of Denmark. In addition to the reservation for the adoption of this bill by the Danish Parliament, emphasis has been placed on ensuring Denmark the necessary insight and ability to influence the requirements of traffic. This ensures as far as possible in advance that the traffic will also be attractive to Danish travellers. The Ministry of Transport is also guaranteed the right to consult in connection with the publication of annual reports on traffic by Roadverket. In addition, it will be up to Traffic Authority, as a provider, to carry out the procurement in accordance with applicable national and Union law. Road traffic will also be responsible for contract follow-up and all other operating conditions for up to 6 years to be run by the night trains. When traffic ceases by August 2028, the Agreement shall also terminate. Finally, for the sake of good order, I must stress that Denmark does not grant any purchasing powers or any other powers by concluding the agreement. Against this background, I am quite confident in giving my support to the draft law and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429102403	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. After a little cleaning, it's Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429102429	Thank you for that, President. The bill is about night trains, more specifically Swedish night trains. Night trains we don't have much left of in Denmark. I remember my years at the Army Officer's School at Frederiksberg Castle. Every Sunday evening I went to Aarhus, got into the night train and laid down to sleep, and then you rolled quietly to Copenhagen during the night, and then you could get out relatively well rested in the morning. It was back in the '80s. We don't have that in Denmark anymore. Apparently, there is no longer any passenger base for that. But the Swedes have the courage to run some night trains, and we welcome that in the Left, and so we can support this bill. My Socialist colleague has explained in an excellent way the details which are, of course, about us empowering the Minister of Transport to enter into an agreement with the Swedes, so that we get night trains down through Denmark. We see this as a positive thing, and we hope that in the longer term there can also be Danish night trains between, among other things. Denmark and Germany. But this is a good bill that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429102546	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And after some cleaning it is Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429102604	Thank you, sir. President. There is not really much new to add. After all, the two rapporteurs from the Left and the Socialists have been relatively uncomplicated in explaining what this bill contains. It is a simple legislative proposal, but it must, of course, do a bottom-up job to ensure that the Swedish railways have the opportunity to carry out the journeys which they now believe are needed in order to meet the requirements of consumers who purchase transport in Sweden in relation to, for example, being able to make connections to Germany and to Belgium. The Danish People's Party has no further comments than those that have been said, and we believe that it is common sense that Denmark naturally makes itself available and facilitates it in relation to the contract being concluded. So the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429102657	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429102728	Thank you. The first time I traveled alone, it was by plane; I went with a girlfriend to southern Europe for a summer vacation. My father wasn't impressed. He is the old 68 generation, and he told the story of the time when he went with his comrades to the former Yugoslavia by train, and of the first time he sat on a curb and split a watermelon with two comrades, and he had never tasted it before. He told about the conversations they had had in the train coups at night, also with the interference of alcohol and other things that could make it more festive. It was all something I didn't experience on my flight. It's not that it wasn't great to travel to southern Europe with a girlfriend. It was the first time I was out traveling alone. But there was something romantic about the idea of doing it by train. And now we can feel that there are some especially young people in Denmark who want us to do something good for the climate and who are interested in changing their habits in their daily lives to make sure that we also have a planet to pass on to future generations. And for them, the night trains and the night trains that my father's generation once knew play a major role. With this proposal, we allow the Swedes to try to drive some night trains again to the rest of Europe, fortunately through Denmark, and of course we support this in the SF. It is high time, and it is going to do a great deal of good, I think, for our way of travel and for our climate. I think it's gonna bite on too. I think we're going to travel a lot more by train than we've done otherwise, at least in my lifetime. That is why I hope that at some point in Denmark we can do more than just what we are proposing here. I hope that one day we may be able to drive night trains from Denmark ourselves and not only let the Swedes do so, even if it is difficult and expensive. But this is a step on the way, and it is a very important step on the way. In those words, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103021	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103041	Thank you. I note that I am then in generation with the father of the SF rapporteur. I have often used these night trains and always liked them very much. The content of the proposal has been well explained. Traffic has asked to be allowed to drive night trains in Denmark, and I am very pleased to be able to say a resounding yes to that. And hopefully this can also get us started using this means for ourselves in the future. I am very pleased to hear that everyone welcomes a Swedish wish to use Danish infrastructure for night trains.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103111	Thank you to the rapporteur, no brief remarks. Then we can move on to Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103126	Night train for Europe is one of the elements we have in the Enhedslisten climate plan, and we do, precisely because we see it as part of the green transformation of our society, that we provide alternatives to taking the plane. Fortunately, there is a great interest among the Danes in taking the train out into Europe. It is therefore also fantastic that today we are dealing with a legislative proposal which will ensure the cooperation between Denmark and Sweden, which will enable the Swedes to send night trains into Europe. We hope that in the long term this will lead to more people opting out of the flight and that there will be even more night trains to take us to the rest of Europe. However, it probably takes more than a few night trains through Denmark. We would therefore very much like to look at passenger charges on flights. After all, Denmark is one of the four remaining countries of the European Union which has not yet introduced air fares. It also requires a re-prioritisation of EU infrastructure funds. Even now, just over half of the funding for the trans-European transport network's rail projects is going to go up to at least 60% to 70% in the view of the Enhedslisten. with the consequence that we also have to downgrade motorway projects. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that a continent such as Europe must have cross-border train connections as a real and green alternative to flying. That is why we are happy to vote in favour of this proposal, which is a small step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103303	Thank you. No brief remarks. Then we move on to Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103319	Thank you for the floor. Of course, when our Swedish neighbours try to resume night train driving, this is something that we would like to support. I believe that a great many Danes and Swedes will benefit from the opportunity to drive by night trains. This is a great opportunity to get more out of your holiday and get more flexibility. When you can sleep on the journey, you have more time to enjoy the destination, and I think that we could all spend some more holiday on top of a year and a half with corona soon. To fall asleep in Copenhagen, Aarhus or Fredericia and wake up in Prague, Berlin or Munich seems very attractive right now. In the past, many Danes have used night trains to visit our European neighbours to the south. It is an easy, climate-friendly and hopefully also often a slightly cheaper solution for the Danes as well as the Swedes, which is why the Conservative People's Party can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103421	Thank you. And after a while, it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103440	Thank you. I have to be honest and say that when I saw this bill, I had to write to my mother because my mother is one of those who really appreciated this night train when we were going on holiday in Germany, for example. So I think that she is one of those who will appreciate very much the fact that these night trains are coming again. It was a little anecdote about my mother, who's probably gonna be very excited about this. Having said that, many people have said what is like in this bill, and New Citizens are also supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103515	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103532	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is also in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103537	Thank you. And then it must be a happy Minister of Transport, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429103553	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank all the rapporteurs for their clear statements on the content of the draft law. There is not really much to add to it, however, that it is not quite by chance that the Swedes now want to be allowed to take responsibility for traffic buyers. It is, in fact, a major piece of work that has taken place between Denmark, Sweden and Germany in order to determine what it is really necessary to do in order to run international night trains. When you do such an investigation work, you also have to draw the conclusion at some point as to who will be responsible for the purchase of it. What nation is going to do that? We have, of course, discussed it with the Swedes, should it be us; should it be the Swedes; should it be the country where there was the largest route where traffic purchases were to be made; should it be the country where you started; should it be the country where you ended? All this has been up and running, and we have therefore agreed that the Swedes will accept responsibility. And with this home of law, we'll make sure they get the chance. That's really, really positive. Therefore, this is also the culmination of what I have to say has been a very good cooperation not only between Denmark and Sweden, but also between Denmark and Germany. It must also be said that the fact that we have different traffic systems, power systems, signalling systems all contributes to making cross-border driving rather complicated and, above all, night trains; and not least, that there are no such large quantities of equipment to support it. You cannot use just a regular train car; you have to find some train equipment where you can have the good travel experience, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, among other things. Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from her own personal experience, Mrs Mette Thiesen from her mother and Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen from her father etc. These really good stories can also be linked to a small thread myself, since I myself, when I was a child, mainly took a vacation in Denmark. It was not really because my parents had any particular kingly thought that you should take a holiday in Denmark. Well, that's what they said, that you have to get to know your own country before you go out, as my father always said. In fact, it was probably more about that we couldn't really afford anything but to go on a bike vacation. But the first time that we managed to scrape money together to leave the country, it was actually a train journey by night train to Norway. And I remember it because I slept incredibly well in the train, even though it was a rather worn-out cart we drove with. By the way, if anyone is interested in what the night trains looked like back then in the 1970s, when I traveled with this as a child, this is an advertisement, but I think the chairman would like to take me to the Danish Railway Museum in Odense, where you can see one of the wagons that used to drive night trains. You almost feel like a good novel by Agatha Christie, but without the murder, it has to be said. Well, back to the current case. This is an essential step to ensure that the two specific train routes under consideration can be implemented and implemented as from August 2022, that is next year. It is very exciting and gives some green perspectives, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned. But it is clear that what is also behind it is also a rather thorough analysis by our Swedish neighbours; an analysis that indicates that there is a fairly high potential for driving night trains. Among other things: This means that when a future Fehmarn connection is established from 2029, travel times will be shorter to some parts of the European continent. Their analysis points very much to the fact that this is what is commonly called Greater Copenhagen, the area of Malmö-København, which can be very much where there is a market for driving these night trains. That is why I have no doubt that putting this first project into the sea can also point towards what is then becoming sustainable. Because there are, of course, if we are to be completely honest, not really any of us who can say today how much demand is going to be. We can see, because we can all hear and read the e-mails we get that there are indications that people want to drive trains when they go on holiday. But what is real demand? What will be the real pricing? Of course, we also need to be able to look a little closer at that when we get closer. Of course, all these elements will become wiser by first securing this legal home, and then in the next place getting some night trains running on the tracks and thus also getting this potential assessed to the bottom. I am certainly not worried about working closely with other countries, because when you drive international night trains, you have to work together. The interest that has been expressed, both from Sweden and from Germany, but also from the Danish public, underlines that it may well be that we are now back in a place where we will see over the coming years that there will be an increasing interest in this form of travel. It's exciting, and that's why this is a good first step. And I am also very pleased to see that there have been no critical comments, even in relation to the consultation we have carried out. I am, of course, looking forward to the committee's examination of this matter and, if there are any questions, we naturally make ourselves available to answer them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104203	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104217	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104227	The bill is the execution of the part of the agreement of 15 December 2020 on the police and prosecutor's economy from 2021 to 2023, which concerns the transfer of a number of tasks from the Ministry of Justice's resort to the Ministry of Transport's resort. The tasks of conducting driving tests and issuing and administering driving licences and tachograph cards are transferred from the police to the Danish Trade Administration. The task of issuing special transport permits is transferred from the police to the Road Directorate. The primary purpose of the bill is to provide the necessary legal basis for raising the payment for a driving test. It is proposed that the current fee for a driving test, which is set out in the Road Traffic Act and is DKK 600, be converted to an administrative fee, which will be increased by DKK 200. The fee for a driving test will then be 800 DKK. The draft law provides for the possibility of laying down the detailed rules for determining the fee at the notice level, and the increase in the payment for a driving test of DKK 200. is intended to finance the costs incurred by the Danish Trade Agency by taking over the tasks of the National Police Department per year. 1 October 2021. In particular, the necessary investments are being made to re-establish system support for driving licences. The increase of DKK 200. cover the total additional costs of the transfer of the driving licence area over a balance period of four years. The fee will be recalculated in 2025. The bill also provides for a fee of DKK 200, which is payable in addition to the fee for a driving test of DKK 800. The total payment for a driving test is therefore proposed as a whole increased from DKK 600. for 1,000 kroner. The 200 kr tax. is entered into the Road Traffic Act and must be paid, at the same time as the fee of DKK 800 is paid. The proposed levy is intended to co-finance the retention of the approximately 115 police years' work currently engaged in the four road traffic tasks entrusted from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Transport so that they can remain in the police force and be part of a strengthening of police operational capacity. In addition, it is proposed that the current payment provisions of Chapter 10 and Chapter 17a of the Road Traffic Code in the field of driving licences and tachograph cards should be changed from charges to administrative fees. The draft law therefore provides for the possibility of laying down detailed rules for the determination of fees at the level of publication. The payments will be set at the amount they represent today at 2021 level and recalculated after 4 years, i.e. by the end of 2025 at the latest. The purpose of converting the payments from fees to fees is, in the long term, to establish a link between the amount of these payments and the benefits to be covered by them. By converting charges into fees, they will also be able to be adjusted at the level of notice in relation to the level of costs, without requiring any change in the law each time. Finally, it is proposed that the Danish Road Traffic Authority per year. 1 October 2021 shall take over the appeal procedure in the field of driving licences. In this way, the Danish Road Traffic Authority will be required to provide the following information: 1 October 2021 be a recursion in relation to the decisions taken by the Agency in the field of driving licences. The draft law therefore authorizes the Minister of Transport also to lay down rules whereby, within the Ministry's area of responsibility, the corresponding authority must be able to act as a consultative body for another secondary authority. Detailed rules will be laid down at the level of publication. The change takes place as a result of the fact that the Danish Trade Administration is today the court of re-course for a number of decisions in the field of driving licences and will therefore no longer be able to carry out this task. This is a good bill, of course supported by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104616	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104620	Does it ever surprise the Social Democratic Party that, even if you are in the country with the highest taxes in the world, every time you want something, in this case, you become something quite basic as having enough police to ensure order, have to invent new fees and new charges and raise fees and raise charges to afford it even if you already live in the country with the highest tax pressure? Does it ever wonder where all that money will go if they cannot even finance the basics of having policemen enough to ensure order?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104701	Where's the money this bill is about? This is clearly explained in the draft law, namely that some of the money is used to transfer a task from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Transport's territory, and once that task has been transferred, it will be re-calculated whether there is still a need to charge such a high fee and if there is not, the fee will be reduced. In addition, it is a relatively broad agreement on the police authority's economy for 2021-2020. There, of course, emphasis has been placed on the importance of maintaining a strong police force, and that is why the tax imposed on it here, that is to say on the driving licence, will go directly to strengthen the police with 115 years' work. So there is a connection between what is paid for and what society gets for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104751	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104753	Well, it doesn't really look like that. You are in the country with the world's highest taxes, and because you need enough police to ensure order, you have to raise taxes and fees and invent new ones to afford it. Why is it necessary in the country with the world's highest tax burden? Surely enough money should already be collected to secure something as basic as that there were enough police to secure law and order. Where does all the money we pay in taxes go, since there aren't enough police to secure law and order? We're paying a lot already.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104829	If we are to take the general tax discussion that the rapporteur and I have had in the past when we were tax rapporteurs, I would like to question whether we have the world's highest tax burden in Denmark when comparing with countries where you pay for insurance and all sorts of other things, not over the tax ticket, but out of the private economy, in relation to what you get for money here in Denmark. We have the best welfare society in the world. It can get better, and it works the government year by year. That is what the money is going to do, and I think that is a very, very good priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104859	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429104919	Thank you for that, President. Over the last two to three years, the Left has spent a lot of energy working on the huge problem of driving licences. Especially at Sjælland there have been very long waiting times to get up to the driving test. It has been quite unacceptable that the pupils of driving schools have had to wait weeks and sometimes for several months to audition, even a test for which they pay a fee. This is totally unacceptable. And we have had the Minister of Justice several times in consultation on this and asked countless questions. That is why we in the Left have been working for a long time for us to get away from the police and move over to the Customs Authority, where the right person belongs with the traffic law. And that's actually what's being proposed with this bill. We very much welcome this. We are convinced that it will help to resolve the waiting times around the driving tests so that we get down to the set service target: maximum. Take 2 weeks, then you will have to run a driving test at all test sites in Denmark. That's what the Department of Trade has to organize. The transport industry has also called for simplification and efficiency, and they have long wanted us to transfer the transport-related administrative tasks around, for example, the entire industry. tachograph cards, special transport permits, etc. I'm gonna take this proposal to the Department of Trade, and it's gonna happen with this proposal. Finally, it is very good that the police can then free 115 years of work, and these are urgently needed for real police tasks, and I hope that some of them will also be used for road traffic control, because there is an increasing traffic egoism in this country, and there is only a good way to keep track of this kind, and that is control. So, on the whole, it is really positive that we have adopted this transfer of tasks, and the Left can warmly support that. We can also support raising the fee. In fact, it is the driving schools themselves who have had a desire that the fees, i.e. the fees, so we are in favour of raising the fees. What we are not so enthusiastic about is that you put on top of the fee a tax, a real extra tax, you might say, to get this funded. There is no secret that the Left was ready to find other funding for it, because we did not think it would be right to add a tax. But overall, we stress that we will solve the challenges surrounding the driving schools that I explained and that the strong desire of the business community to have this singled out will be met, so that all in all we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105233	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Thomas Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105237	Thank you. I am a little puzzled when I think back to the work we have had in the Parliament's Transport Committee, where Mr. After all, Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has convened both the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Transport in consultation. During that consultation, it emerged that the rapporteur himself thinks it would be a good idea to make it more expensive to take a driving licence. Now we have a legislative proposal in which we are going to increase the fee and where we are going to raise the payment with a tax, and then the rapporteur is going to resign in relation to it. So this increase in the price that citizens will see when this is introduced is something that has come from the Left itself. That is why I am also surprised that the Left does not support the bill today. What has happened since we had the consultation of the Parliament's Transport Committee, where this was presented to the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105333	But the Socialist rapporteur has to bear in mind that we support this bill. I would like to repeat that if it was not understood before: we support the bill. We must also bear in mind that we support an increase in fees, because a charge is cost-effective, unlike a tax which is a real tax. I would just like to say that we would have preferred something other than this tax, but on the basis of an overall assessment and a strong desire to resolve it and to simplify this area, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105406	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105407	I appreciate that, and I'm sorry. Indeed, I only heard that part of the rapporteur's speech, which was spoken against the increase in taxes, and then I had a small correspondence with the Minister for Transport, while the latter was spoken. But then I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Left supports it, and at the same time I would also like to express my astonishment that the Left was not part of the overall conciliation when it was concluded, but that is the way it has happened. But thank you very much for the support of the Left for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105436	Sir. Thomas Jensen is forgiven. Sometimes you hear what you want to hear. However, we support the draft law on the basis of an overall assessment, and we look forward to a much better organisation of this area, and we believe that these tasks are very well put in place by the Danish Trade Administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105453	The good thing about it is that you can go in at any time to see what is being said from the parliamentary platform and I can confirm what the rapporteur said here. Thank you, however, to the rapporteur. We just need to clean up a little bit; thank you for that. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105516	The reason for this bill is, of course, that an agreement has been reached on the finances of the police and prosecutors for the coming years. This is an agreement that we in the Danish People's Party are in, so I can already reveal that we support this bill. As the previous rapporteurs have already said, this is about the fact that, among other things, we are concerned. will move tasks from the police to some other agencies to free up some resources. This means, in concrete terms, that the handling of driving tests and driving licences is transferred from the police to the Danish Road Administration and that special transport permits are transferred from the police to the Road Directorate. The good reason for this is, of course, that in this way we can release some police resources for quite ordinary police work, which I think we would like to have a much higher priority, by then getting some others to help solve these perhaps more administrative tasks. They can be solved by other professional groups, and this is, of course, a quite good way of freeing up some police resources so that we can catch some more bandits and put them behind bars and bars. Another part of the bill is then also a degree of funding, which was part of the police agreement, so that the price of a driving test increases overall from 600 DKK. to DKK 1,000, and that it is converted from a charge to a fee understood in the way that the 800 DKK. is a fee and that the last 200 DKK. is a new tax. I wasn't involved in negotiations, so I don't quite know what the background was, but I really just want to ask out of curiosity why two rates have been chosen. Why has it not been chosen to say that it should be a fee of DKK 1,000? or a tax of DKK 1,000.? So why do you have to have both, because it seems actually a little unnecessary bureaucratic at first glance? I believe that the price is the decisive factor for the Danes, and it is so the same: it is rising. But why do we need two rates to be charged? So I agree that it has been said that some of it should be temporary funding, because there is some cost of moving this task to another board, but could it not also have been handled in the fee, and then you could have reduced the fee when you got further? It's just out of curiosity. We are in the agreement and it is not because it changes our position on the legislative proposal. But what is the reason why it has to be exactly two different collection methods instead of just one? Well, otherwise I can also say in conclusion that the consultation answers actually look quite positive. I think only the Danish Car Industry Council says that it will be too expensive for mechanics to take a driving licence. I am thinking that perhaps it is not necessarily the biggest problem whether over a long apprenticeship period it will cost 400 kroner. More. At least that shouldn't be what made it possible to opt out of students. Of course, it is an increase, and you may be tired of it, but it should not make a big difference in relation to the number of pupils. But as mentioned at the beginning, we in the Danish People's Party are in this agreement, so we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105747	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105750	The Liberal Alliance is not included in this agreement either, and that is precisely because of this tax. But I can explain to you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, how it works, I think. I think that the parties to the agreement have thought: we need a cost-effective fee which corresponds to the costs of making a driving licence for people, and then we need a tax upstairs. Then I have a question for Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, who has made many speeches in this Chamber, where Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær has scolded over such arbitrary charges as there is no point in, for example.: Why is it just people who like chocolate, nuts, coffee etc. who have to pay something in tax? Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær made many engaging speeches about, and now Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær saw in the breach for a new tax, and that is what always happens. You want something good in a debate, and how is it to be financed? Then you come up with a tax. But then it's no use that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær then keeps engaged speeches down here about how crazy it is with all the strange charges we have when Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær would like to invent new taxes because, like former politicians, he would like to finance some kind of expense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105859	I do not think it is fair to say that I invented the tax either. In fact, I spent a great deal of my time asking the question: what is the need for it? Because I agree that fees are cost-related, but it is described in the bill that the 200 DKK. In the case of tax, the costs of shifting the assignment from e.g. Police to the Department of Commerce. So why is it that you can't just put it on top of the fee, so don't make the new charge? When you have completed this task after a few years, you can set the fee down, because it will not cover the costs that will of course not be there anymore. So I was actually trying, in my speech, to address the question of whether we could not make it simpler precisely to avoid introducing a new tax. I agree with the questioner that, as I see it here, there is no need for it. I am in favour of the funding being found and we are in favour of it, and we are in the agreement. However, I think we should be able to solve it more simply without having to introduce a new tax of DKK 200.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105949	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429105951	However, it is because the transfer of the task from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Commerce is not what is covered in a traditional fee structure. After all, this is an administrative decision which should not be covered by those who want a driving licence. So it is a definite tax this which, if you needed the money, might as well have been charged via the bottom tax, VAT or the like, but where you saw here you invent a tax, and it therefore supports DF, contrary to what Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær previously expressed his views on taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110030	In other words, if there had been a bourgeois majority, I do not think this had been done, because it is, after all, relatively small money. It is actually quite clear, even for the other bourgeois parties that are included in the agreement. Then I think it had been found in the budgets, about the question Ole Birk Olesen had to the Social Democratic Party. In other words, we would have liked this money to be found elsewhere, but on the other hand we would also like to help strengthen the police, and that is the compromise that is then reached. But as I am just trying to emphasise, I would like to say that we would like to try and see whether we could find another way of finding the money instead of a new tax. This does not mean that we should not find the same money, but the question is whether we could avoid a tax, perhaps with a fee or another way of financing it. Because that seems a little illogical, I must honestly admit that you are just saying that it should be 800 kroner. in fee and 200 DKK. in tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110128	Thank you. Well, as has been said, this is part of the agreement on the police and prosecutor's finances, which SF is also part of. As we are part of it, we think that overall it is quite reasonable, so we also support this bill. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110148	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110204	This proposal is the implementation of a police agreement, in other words, a resort transfer for the settlement of driving tests, which is now to be conducted by the Federal Ministry of Transport. There is an independent reason for this. A driving test will in future cost 400 DKK. more, some of it is the charge, some of it is the charge. It covers, among other things: The Bureau's expenses, but also the additional 115 police officers who can then be held in the police. We have entered into that agreement openly and we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110238	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110255	As has already been mentioned, the legislative proposal that we have to deal with now is an expiry of the December police agreement, which is intended to free up funds for 115 new officers by moving some tasks. The tasks include the completion of driving tests, the issue and administration of driving licences, the issue of tachograph cards, tasks which will then have to be solved in the future by the Danish Trade Administration. In addition, special transport permits have been issued, which will in future have to be resolved by the Road Directorate. As I said, funding is done by raising the price of driving tests, theoretical tests and tachographs. We're kind of happy to be able to help secure more cops, and of course we support this bill. Basically, we're not super happy that there's a task transfer from the police to the Department of Commerce. We believe that the police also need tasks that are not exclusively aimed at combating crime. But that is how the agreement came to an end, and of course we are behind it. Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110353	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you for that, and then it is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110411	Thank you for the floor. As part of the agreement on the police and prosecutor's finances back in December 2020, we decided to transfer certain tasks from the police to the Federal Ministry of Transport. The tasks include the completion of driving tests, the issue and administration of driving licences and the issue of tachograph cards to be completed in the future by the Danish Transport Authority, as well as the issue of special transport permits to be completed in the future by the Road Directorate. There are two things we are particularly pleased about in this bill. Firstly, it is hoped that the delays in driving tests in recent years will be remedied so that far fewer people experience that there is no possibility of taking driving tests and that this is what stands in the way of getting on the roads as a new driver. Secondly, the proposal and the new model will release 115 years' work within the police force, which we can use to such an extent elsewhere. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal and looks forward to October 1st of this year, when the move to the Danish Federation of Trades is taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110518	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110521	I am rather surprised that the Conservative People's Party is pleased with this transfer of tasks from the Ministry of Justice, because it could have happened much earlier. During the parliamentary term between 2015 and 2019, of which the Conservative People's Party was in the Ministry of Justice from 2016-2019, there was a desire on the part of the other blue parties that those tasks should be transferred. What stood in the way of it was that we could not persuade the Conservative People's Party to do so. What's the reason you were against this great idea while you were in the Justice Department?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110557	I was not in those negotiations then, so frankly I cannot answer that question. For several years we have been fighting for various tasks, including the atk, etc. This was also something that the Conservative People's Party wanted. But there I must be answer guilty, I will try to see if I can dig it up for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110617	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110618	Well, then, I would like to interpret it as saying that the Conservative People's Party in the last parliamentary term, on this subject, did not pursue conservative policy, but conducted the policy of the Ministry of Justice. Then I'll ask you something else, and it's this new tax on driving licences. Does the Conservative People's Party not think that having a car and driving a car is taxed enough in Denmark? Does the Conservative People's Party think that a tax is missing so that we can get enough tax on having a car?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110645	No, we certainly do not, and we would also like to see car taxes reduced so that it will be cheaper to buy sensible cars, greener cars and safer cars, but this is part of an overall agreement, and there we have to come to an agreement on what can be agreed in a circle with other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110706	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429110720	Shortly before Christmas, we concluded a very good multi-annual police agreement, an agreement that will strengthen police action for the next three years and with which we in the New Citizens are quite happy. With the agreement, we are starting to decentralise the police and re-open 20 police stations around the country. It is only the beginning, and in New Citizens we would have liked to have gone further in this direction and secured an even stronger local anchoring of the police. Now we are turning the tide so that the eternal centralisation, which for too many years has moved police resources away from the smaller cities and towards the capital, is broken, and that is good. New citizens have been included in the agreement that in future border controls should not only be a control over who goes into the country; there must also be an exit check at the border. Foreign thieves have been able to drive out of Denmark in vans filled with stolen goods for years. They must be found and stopped before crossing the borders with the Danes' possessions. In addition, New Citizens have succeeded in persuading the government to set up a special unit to solve social fraud. For me and for New Citizens, it is absolutely crucial that the new special unit should be used to expose the rather massive fraud involving public services, such as: is carried out among immigrants and descendants. Today, these cases are hardly ever investigated, and almost no one is convicted. I am convinced that when there is a hole in the boil and you see from the authorities how much money is being defrauded, that special unit will be strengthened and expanded simply because it is a good business for the state to get the fraudsters exposed and the money back. The next step will then be to amend the Aliens Act so that the social crooks among foreigners will have their verdict followed up by a consistent expulsion from Denmark. In New Citizens we preferred no foreigners to be allowed to live on public support. The least you can ask of travellers is that they support themselves while they are here, but when they even cheat on even more, the hammer must fall and they must go out without warning. In the draft law we are discussing here, we are dealing with parts of the agreement, among other things. the tasks to be entrusted from the Ministry of Justice's area of responsibility to the Ministry of Transport, i.e. tasks which go from the police to the Ministry of Transport and the Road Directorate, and the financing of this. We recognise that not all parts of, among others. funding is grown in our backyard... that's how it is when you make a deal. In New Citizens we see the overall agreement as a good deal, an agreement that gives the Danes more police and a better and more decentralised police, a police which in future will have more opportunities to catch foreign criminals and solve serious crimes, and we recognise, as I said, that not all parts of, among others. funding has grown in our backyard, and there are substantial parts of the initial funding proposals that we are very pleased that we have got out of the agreement. Overall, this is a very good agreement and that is why we are voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111030	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111032	I am actually in a sense pleased with Mrs Mette Thiesen's argument, because it recognises that when you make broad agreements that contain many elements, you can be included in an agreement if you think that the positive takes up a great deal and that the negative takes up much less than the negative. Then the question is how does that weighting count etc. For us, this tax invention counts a lot, and that's why we're not in it. But it's a little in contrast to how New Civilians usually react. When the rest of us are in agreements where we also have the view that yes, yes, this element may not be quite positive, but there is something else that is enormously positive and that outweighs the negative, then New Citizens are very indignant and make facebook videos that everyone else has failed the real case etc. Is New Citizens never afraid to get so high on the horse and appear so holy that it doesn't actually go very well when you look at this case, for example. must uphold a different principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111141	I think the rapporteur is drawing up a special picture. I always think it is free for parties to argue for why they are included in an agreement or why they are not included in an agreement, and they will therefore quite naturally face criticism from those who, for example, are outside the agreement or from those who are in the agreement, and then we have to fight about it on the best arguments. As I say clearly in my speech here, we actually think this police settlement is a very good deal. We got the things we went into the negotiating room with, we got the police strengthened, we got the police decentralised, we secured some of the things I mentioned, for example with exit controls and this special unit. It was really, really important to us. And then, of course, there are some parts that haven't grown in our backyard that we're going with. But that is part of what the rapporteur quite rightly says to be part of a broad agreement. And then you have to be able to see if the parts that are then included are some thistles that you can then accept.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111245	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111246	But does Mrs Mette Thiesen not see another light shining on the New Citizens' Act in other cases, where New Citizens swing with very big tabs and declare failure and say that politicians have again chosen the elite instead of the people, betrayal of all good ideas, etc., in other words use such words when it comes to just that there are some who are involved in an agreement where they consider that the positive takes up much more than the negative?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111315	Basically, it's about us in New Citizens not sitting with crossed arms in a corner and being angry. We are trying to go in and be constructive and to make some agreements where we think it makes sense, and this agreement we are part of because we think it solves some rather fundamental problems. We would have liked to go further, and we have also tabled a resolution, such as the one with criminal foreigners coming in May, I think, and basically we are not in a corner with crossed arms. We put forward our policy and criticise if we think that others are making mistakes, as other parties are making their policies and criticising those they think are making mistakes. That's politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111354	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111413	Thank you. The bill here contains a number of sensible transfers of tasks from the Ministry of Justice's area to the Ministry of Transport's area, specifically the Ministry of Transport and the Road Directorate, and we have been in favour of this for several years, and we have also tried to implement it, but there has not been sufficient support for it in the past. So there is now, and that is why we can easily support what is going on here. It is also part of a major police agreement, which also contains some things that we support: strengthening police personnel and resources where they are needed. And that way, of course, you can ask if we shouldn't just be involved in this. We cannot be, because we think that the fact that, at all times and on every occasion, we are constantly inventing small new taxes to finance things, instead of looking at the money we already have at our disposal, is such a bad thing in Danish politics, because it fills so much in this police agreement and in the law that we are dealing with here, and for us it fills more than the good that you otherwise do. We think it was positive when former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen said that we should have a tax freeze in Denmark. There is no need to invent new taxes and charges that are actually needed to reduce taxes and duties. And if you need to spend one billion more in one area, you can find the billion in other areas where it is financed by the already very high taxes and charges levied in this country. So it is a very important principle for us that taxes should not and need not be higher in a country where the tax burden is already the highest in the world. That is why we must say no to the fact that there must now be a tax of DKK 200. to get a driving licence in Denmark. One thing is that there is a cost-effective fee, in other words where those who need a driving licence pay for the cost of issuing the driving licence. We can accept that, we are actually in favour of it. But a tax of DKK 200. We are opposed to the idea of having a driving licence, just as we are opposed to the imposition of a tax on coffee and the levy on sugar and the levy on chocolate and the levy on nuts. We do not think it is a good way to collect taxes in Denmark, to choose random products and to say that those who need those products have to pay an extra bill for having a comprehensive social democratic welfare society in Denmark. If you want to collect money for the expenses you have in this state and in this public sector, you have to take advantage of the tax sources that affect everyone who benefits from the benefits. It could, for example, be done. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We do not believe that we should charge more, we believe that we should charge less, but if we are to, we should not impose the burden on random people who have a random choice of consumption, and then they should suddenly pay for what benefits the whole of society. So for these reasons, we are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111736	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429111754	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking all the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. You must continue to be able to go to the driving test in the part of the country where you live. That is precisely at the heart of this resort transfer, and we are making that possible. Thus, all Danes throughout the country can obtain a driver's license so that the car as a means of transport becomes available to anyone who needs it. This ensures mobility among the Danes who need it across the country, no matter where you live. Therefore, it is also good that there is a broad majority in the Folketing that, together with the government just before Christmas, made a broad political agreement on the police and prosecutor's economy for the years 2021-2020. In connection with the agreement, a number of road traffic tasks are transferred from the Ministry of Justice's resort to the Ministry of Transport's resort, and this is done from 1 October of this year. When you hear the debate, it is very clear that the vast majority of the rapporteurs agree with what others are not in the agreement, and then there is a party that is in the agreement that might have preferred it to be drafted in a different way, but which accepts the overall agreement as it stands. That's the way it is. This is basically about implementing that part of the agreement, so that in future we can also provide a good service that benefits both citizens and society. This is what we do best by bringing together the driving licence area under the authority of a Resort Ministry. This has been mentioned in the debate by among others. Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, that this is very much about reducing waiting times. It is absolutely true that there have been waiting times in this area. It is also clear that I look forward very much to the task being solved in the Danish Trade Administration, among other things. Because you walk away from the fact that it is one of many tasks that are being solved by the police. There are a lot of super important core tasks in the police, but there is also no doubt that if you look at the overall subject matter of the Danish Trade Authority, it means that you add the driving licence area to the Danish Agency to ensure that it becomes one of the core tasks of the Danish Trade Administration. That is why, of course, we also have a great hope that this will be reflected in the eyes of the users. But it is also clear that when you make a resort transfer it almost doesn't matter which area it is on and one task goes from one authority to another, you also have to adjust to the fact that there will be a transition period before it runs optimally. That has been said many times along the way. I know that this has also been said during the negotiations. But I just think that, for the sake of order, I will say it from here, and that the Danish Trade Administration and my ministry will of course do the very best for things to run as well as possible from the first day. But you just have to adjust to the fact that when there are also IT functions that are going to help solve this, you also have to have some kind of patience. The increase in payment for a driving test of DKK 600 for 1,000 kroner. In order to finance the quality boost which must be given to the driving licence area, it is necessary to transfer the resort to the Danish Trade Authority. It then at the same time provides released resources from the police for other tasks. It must be said to be a gain for the whole of society. I am fully in favour of this, and we will not fail to avoid the fact that it also provides an additional cost for the applicant who wishes to obtain a driving licence, and also for the employer who has to pay for an employee's acquisition of a driving licence. Having said that, it is also important to see this in the wider perspective, for the additional cost of 400 DKK. is for the individual a one-off cost, which must be seen as an investment for the benefit of citizens and society in general. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær spoke a little about the issue of the fact that there is something about tax and something about fees, and for the sake of good order it was Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is also right to say that the fee part is cost-effective, which means that over the years it will be adjusted and adjusted to what the actual cost is. This will be kept under review so that over the years it will be placed in line with the cost. However, it is also no secret that part of the financing is paid as part of the agreement to finance the cost which then lies with the police. Therefore, the distinction between what is a part of the charge and what is the part of the charge to determine that part. It is clear that I look forward to further discussion here in the Folketing, and I am of course also available to answer any questions that may arise in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429112304	We're just gonna take care of one of them now. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429112307	Thank you. There is no doubt, as the Minister also mentioned, that there will now be an important transitional phase. After all, it's a huge task to transfer these things from the police to the Department of Commerce without friction, including the driving test area. It takes some time, of course, but it also requires good will and cooperation between the giving unit, namely the police, and then the receiving unit, the Administration of Trades. I am sure that is present, it is the spirit of it all, in order for it to work. There is something to correct, especially here on Zealand, and especially in the metropolitan area, there is still an intolerable waiting time for driving tests to be carried out today. Nor has it improved with the hump that has arisen as a result of the corona shut-off. So there are huge problems every day, and only a small part of the need is covered by the driving tests being laid out, whereas in Jutland there are virtually no problems. There I can report that the police have the approach that one covers the need finished! So there's a big difference in those places. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that the objective is, of course, that we get a uniformly high service throughout Denmark with this scheme and that the decentralized structure is maintained so that there is not much further to the individual test sites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429112423	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429112425	That's right. That is the purpose of the exercise, namely to ensure uniformity and also to ensure the decentralized element. It is clear that this, not least everything that now needs to be done in relation to digitalisation, and the work in this regard, cannot be seen in isolation from some of the other parts, which also need to be strengthened. We're coming, for example. also to look at the entire driving training, and in this connection I think it makes very good sense for us to gather things together at the Danish works council. It is true that this requires that there is cooperation both between those who give a job and those who receive a job. By its very nature, I can only speak for the receiving part, for the Danish Trade Authority's part, and here are the reports that have been given to me clearly by the management that this is the absolute top priority. So I'm confident about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429112524	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429112546	The debate is open, and with the papers in place it is the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429112607	It is always an advantage to remember to get the right papers for the matter up with, and I have now secured that. Thank you, President, and thank you for the floor, and thank you for the tabling of the motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution we are debating now, B 157, requires the government to set up a task force by the end of May 2021. The proposed task force will, by the end of the year, engrave the railway sector and make recommendations for the future organisation of the Danish railway sector. The authors of the motion for a resolution justify the fact that the development of passenger numbers on the railways has not been comparable to that of our neighbouring countries and that, despite large investments, the track does not account for a major part of the transport work, and not least the delay in the signal programme and the electrification programme. I would like to start by saying that I am also not satisfied with the development of passenger numbers on the railways in Denmark, and I do not think anyone will be able to disagree with that. I would very much like the passenger numbers to be higher, as this would alleviate congestion problems on the roads and reduce CO2 In particular, it can of course be of great importance on the long stretches, and we must therefore make the railway a more attractive mode of transport. An important tool in this work is the roll-out of exactly what has been mentioned in the motion for a resolution, namely the signal programme and the electrification programme, as these include. to make it possible to deploy DSB's new electric train to Aarhus and Aalborg, just to name some destinations. These projects are progressing well at present. In any case, they are making much better progress now than they have done in the past. The reorganisation of the railway sector at this stage therefore risks delaying precisely these projects and many of the other ongoing railway projects. A delay would therefore mean that we risk that the development will be that the passenger numbers will continue to be below our neighbouring countries, and I find that difficult to see that we need here and now. A reorganisation would be resource-intensive, and while it is going on, good forces would have to be used for reorganisation rather than for what is the actual task, i.e. the roll-out of the major projects. Therefore, at a time of very great activity on the railways, I think it is important that we ensure that the sector is quiet, so that the full focus is on implementing the many projects. With that said, I think it is important that we look out into the world to gain experience, as there is always room for improvement. Right now, we are in the middle of negotiations on a new infrastructure plan, where we need to agree on many of the tasks that the sector will have to perform over the next 15 years. My approach to the proposal itself is such that a discussion on the organisation of the sector can be taken more meaningfully when we know what the tasks are for the sector with a future infrastructure agreement. Now it is not clear from the motion for a resolution that the authors themselves are thinking about the organisation of the railways, but the reference to Norway and Sweden points to the fact that the proposers want further fragmentation, further outsourcing and further privatisation of the sector. I don't think that's the right way. On the contrary, we need consolidation in the most central areas. There is, for example, the problem of the validators, which the proposers themselves also mention. This is, in fact, a very good expression of one of the challenges we face. It is very much the privatisation and outsourcing in the area of validator that is responsible for the fact that we have not had the necessary resources and that no one has been responsible for ensuring that the necessary validator resources were available. Banedanmark has now taken on that responsibility, but it is difficult to lift responsibility when it is a private consultancy company that sits on most of the resources. So, to sum up, it is not the government's policy that we should split up the rail sector further, but it is clear that we would of course always like to discuss with the parties of the Folketing how we can secure a strengthened railroad. It is clear that we also currently have negotiations on infrastructure where questions can always be raised. In view of this, however, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113106	Thank you to the Minister for his speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113108	Thank you for that, President. I should also like to thank the Minister for a relatively friendly reception of the motion for a resolution. I am pleased that the Minister shares the view that we are not satisfied with the railways. There are a wide range of challenges and problems. On the operating side we spend a lot of money driving trains, and the perception of many passengers is that they don't get the world's best service. On the site we have seen that a great many projects are being expensive and delayed. So there is room for improvement and need to do something. That is why I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about how I sensed an outstretched hand, whether you are willing to look at any organization, and there we are not thinking of a total fragmentation, perhaps on the contrary. One of the challenges is to bring Banedanmark up to the same high standard as the Road Directorate has done in terms of complying with construction budgets and getting the projects completed on time. So, Minister, is the government ready to accommodate us that we need to have a better connection between the money spent by the railway and the service that passengers experience?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113216	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113217	It is clear that if you could ensure that Banedanmark got the same high level as the Road Directorate has achieved, because it is quite impressive that they have achieved over the past few years on that one cannot avoid: budget compliance, delivery on time etc. This is rather different from what the motion for a resolution says, but it does not mean that we cannot discuss it in the context of the infrastructure negotiations that are taking place now. I think that the Left and other parties, who may have that view, should try to give concrete form to and take part in the discussions, because then we would certainly like to listen to it. I do not wish to reject that in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113320	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113322	Thanks for the outstretched hand. For us, it does not really matter how we deal with it, because it is a process. Now we have talked about a task force, but can we find out some pointers in these negotiations that are going in the right direction? For example, in 2021, the amount of EUR 10 billion has been set aside. kr. in the Finance Act for railway operations, including the purchase of traffic, whereas a quarter, i.e. Two-and-a-half billion. kr., to the state road network, and that is in stark contrast to that 90 per cent. of the traffic takes place on state roads. So anyone can see that there has to be a recovery and that we have to focus on the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113400	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113402	But there is no doubt that rail is expensive, and therefore it is also relevant to get as many people into the trains as possible; when there are seats available on the trains, it is of course best that they get filled up with some passengers • no doubt about it. That must also be some of the things we need to look at. But it is also clear that it is not only about the organisation that we can take in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113430	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There are no more brief comments. We just need to get the booze off before the minister goes down. Thank you. And then we should welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113448	This motion for a resolution proposes that the government should be required to set up a task force which will, by 31 December 2021, engrave the railway sector and make recommendations for the future organisation of the Danish rail sector with a view to achieving efficiency improvements and productivity improvements for commuters and other users of the railway. The reason is that Denmark has, comparatively speaking, done badly with our neighbouring countries when looking at the development of the number of passengers using the railway. To this I would say that we in the Social Democratic Party fully agree with the proposers that rail and rail as a mode of transport should be much more attractive. Several people have to choose the train for the train and there should be no doubt about that is our ambition. Trains as a mode of transport have many positive gains, both in relation to congestion on the roads and in relation to climate accounting. We must therefore strengthen rail traffic across the country and the regions, ensure a reduced journey time between the largest cities and a boost in public transport, which, moreover, the government has proposed in its proposal for a new infrastructure plan. An important element in this process is the roll-out of new signals and electrification of the railway, such as: allow the installation of new electric train sets. This should bring tangible improvements for passengers at higher speeds, fewer delays, more departures. And the rollout is well underway despite delays. That is why we also believe that it is important that there is tranquillity about the railway sector so that the projects initiated can be implemented. There is no need for instability and reorganisation. This will not be the right use of our resources, and it will also cause too great a risk that important projects will be delayed more than they already are if energy is to be used to change instead of completing the projects. With those words, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal in this Chamber, but we are therefore prepared to look at the possibility of a joint report or a text for a report in the Committee on Transport. That is why I hope that we can also get together across the middle of the Assembly, because we owe it to the railways. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113658	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is also a brief comment to be made this time on Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113702	Thank you. Thank you for the relatively friendly reception and for having the common recognition that the railway stands in wet and that we need to make it more attractive. We probably also agree that there is a very large amount of money spent today, that is the facts, we can look at the figures, and when there are, like things that work badly, there are such two basic options. You can allocate even more money and fill even more money in it, which is one of the solutions, but you can also try to change track and look at it with fresh eyes to see if there are any other ways of organizing it, whether there are any of the processes in our railway sector between the different authorities that need to be better, whether there is something inside Banedanmark that needs to be better, etc. Well, we're looking at it with fresh eyes. That is why I would like to ask whether the Social Democrats are willing to try to look at it and stir the pot and change paths if that is what is needed, rather than merely allocating a few extra billions each year to the black hole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113801	Thomas Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113802	In fact, I think that we in the Committee on Transport and Tourism have had a very good process during this parliamentary term. In other words, the Minister of Transport started by carrying out a service inspection of the railway, and we have had very good meetings with Banedanmark, who has also presented its strategies and we have had many meetings about the new signalling system, which is being rolled out and which is very late, we have had meetings about electrification and the interaction between electrification and the signal system, and in this way we have all shown that we want the railway. But we have also been made very strongly aware that the major projects that have been set in motion require more time, and we have to wait for them to be implemented and rolled out, and we have to calm it down so that they can be rolled out; at the same time, we have also agreed to the purchase of new trains and locomotives, and then, in the infrastructure negotiations we have now, we can go in and put in extra turbos on what we want for the railways.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113912	Here you go, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113914	Thank you. We will be counting on that, but it is notable that our neighbouring countries have succeeded in securing far more passengers on their trains while spending less money than we do in Denmark. It could say something about how we might learn lessons from them, I think we can, and not least from Norway. That is why I look forward to a closer debate on this. Because it cannot be the case that we are saying that we must now be completely calm for 15 years if we can see that there is a situation in which we have huge spending and are getting too little out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113943	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429113944	I fully agree with the rapporteur that the projects we have set in motion must be quiet. In other words, we cannot stop electrification; we must not do so; we cannot stop the signal roll-out; we must roll it out. And then we have to prepare ourselves to reap the gains that come by getting electrified and by making the signal system work, and that is where I think it is good if we can get inspiration from the outside, the rapporteur and myself have been in Oslo and got inspiration, so that what is beneficial to the Danish railway, I think we should just bring into the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429114019	Thanks to Thomas Jensen. There are no further comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the DF. Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429114032	Perhaps the Minister for Transport and the Socialist rapporteur thought it a little strange that we should choose to have this debate in the Danish Parliament, while at the same time, as was also mentioned by the Minister, we have finally succeeded, at long last, after countless events, in starting some preliminary discussions, in slashing negotiations on the whole of transport with regard to state infrastructure, investment, 15-year plans and everything else. Nevertheless, we three parties have at least found it sensible and also wise to enter into a political agreement where we are going to discuss this here in the Folketing today. It has been a long time in the process, which is why it is, of course, fair enough for the government to have a little more time to start setting up a committee and so on. I'm gonna dig it up. We are all in favour of that. But that does not change the fact that, although we are going to have an infrastructure agreement on basic investment, which is not all timely, but perhaps, fortunately, we are going the right way. We have been talking about electrification of railway lines, etc., and there is certainly not Denmark in the driver's cab, but when it goes the right way, one should of course also remember to praise it. And it certainly does in that area too. But in relation to the whole railway sector, if you look at satisfaction analysis, efficiency measurements, productivity improvements, etc., then there is, to put it nicely, still room and space for some degree of improvement. After all, it is strange that we are spending more and more money on public transport, especially on the rail sector, and we can see that customers are rushing out of the train compartment and would rather use their private cars or other modes of transport to get to and from work. From 2009 to 2019, 132 billion have been invested. kr. In the whole area. The 124 billion. kr. is used. Of them, they're 68 billion. kr. used on installations, and the rest is spent on operation and reductions in taximeter prices, fares etc. We have also tried to achieve a greater degree of outsourcing. There are several lines that Arriva has taken over, etc. And we also have a sensible collaboration between Banedanmark and DSB and the other players, etc., but it does not change that if you look at the overall service experience, what the individual consumer experiences when he or she is going on the train from Struer to Copenhagen once every six months or every three months, or whatever it is they have to do, the service gets worse. It is a worse product that they have received qualitatively. In many places too many trains have already been cancelled before they were even set to run. And it turned out, among other things. on the coast lane, that if you cancel the trains well in time, they will not be included in the statistics which canceled however. There are many ways to make statistics different. In the Danish People's Party, we would like to raise the flag for this agenda to ensure that we get our hands on the experience of what is really needed to give customers a better experience. So what are we experiencing now? We find that at Kokkedal Station the glass cover has been removed, so Mrs Jensen has to stand in the rain and bite frost to get on the train or on the S-train, or whatever she's going with, because some criminal immigrant boys have wanted to smash the store and make the area insecure. So what's the medicine? Yeah, that's just removing the cover. Then you don't think the criminals want to stand and make the area insecure for people who need to get on the train. We've had the same problem with the toilets, access to facilities at the train stations. There were problems with addicts and others who used and frequented the toilets. Then you just shut them down and put on a locking system, maybe even with a texting system, so Mrs. Hansen, 80 years old, eventually has to take a cab to drive home because she needs to go to the bathroom. It's just an example I've got in my inbox. This is not a way to provide services. Nor is it when you look at all the places where you have narrowed the manning. And it all gives a bad picture. Many of the experiences we are told about are also that there is worse cleaning that smells more of what should preferably not smell off on our trains. Is that something that makes people choose public transport? No, I'm afraid it's not. It's actually something that does exactly the reverse. So we certainly expect a great deal from the negotiations that the Minister has called for, and of course we also hope that in the near service we will see a marked improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429114602	Thank you to DF's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429114619	Thank you. Thank you to the authors of this motion for a resolution. In fact, I think that this gives rise to a really good debate and a much-needed debate, because we in the SF fully agree that the railways could be better off, both in terms of passenger numbers, but also in terms of the total volume of transport work, which is highlighted in this resolution. I note that the Minister has referred to the negotiations that have been called for right now. I think that is sensible, but I still think that we should consider what the cure is in relation to the challenges that we are seeing for the railways right now. For us in the SF, this railroad is kind of a baby pain. We have a vision and a desire that public transport should be much more preferable to the Danes and to the people who move every day to work, to school and use it in leisure time than it is right now. And that takes a lot of different things. I think it is important to note in this context that we in Denmark have come all too late with the modernisation of the rail system. It simply took too long to find out that we had to electrify, that we had to have an IT-based signal system, and when you finally got started with that work, you took your mouth too full and made a planning that is very easy to delay and expensive. It is too complicated, too dependent on the individual elements. And that is one of the things we have experienced over the past many years to great frustration for passengers in particular, but it is also true that we transport rapporteurs and members of the Committee on Transport in the Danish Parliament have had to delay time and again parts of the roll-out of the signal programme and electrification, which are super important in order to get the railways in Denmark up to a standard that can attract some more passengers. That is where this motion for a resolution highlights, among other things. The validator deficiency, which we in the SF are also very concerned about. I would say, however, that I do not believe that the cure in this context is to outsource and streamline. On the contrary, I think that we have less experience of this, especially with regard to the lack of validators and other rather critical professionals in railway work. I think we need to give the railways some rest; we need to find out what this has meant by the very extensive use of external consultants and what it has brought about challenges for the railways. And then we shall try to make it simpler in the remainder of the roll-out of the signal program and the remainder of the electrification. Hopefully, when we get out on the other side of that work, we can make the railroad flourish. And there is Togfonden DK for SF of course crucial; the hour model is crucial. I know that the proposers are not necessarily as hot on the hour model, but what they can do, and what they are doing, is that it shortens travel time so much that it becomes super attractive for passengers to choose the railway. It is not the only element that is clear. Quality and timeliness • comfort was even highlighted in the debate • are also incredibly important elements. But travel time and reliability is something that I think we should look at first. We can, of course, make an appropriate start on this in the negotiations that have been called for now. We in the SF will certainly support that very warmly. Then we also have a task after this corona period, where we may need a little effort to find out how to get passengers to return to public transport, which has become a my more difficult after we have asked them to stay away for a year. I hope we can do that together; we in the SF would certainly like that very much. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115102	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115105	Thank you to Mrs Valentina Berthelsen for a good speech. I welcome the fact that we share the vision that the railways should be more attractive. But basically it is uphill; it is such a general thing about public transport. It is, of course, characterized by being a mode of transport that brings us from a place where we are not, to a place where we are not going, as opposed to individual transport, that is, cyclism, carism, which brings us from, exactly where we are, exactly where we are going. That is why it is basically uphill for public transport. So it takes something to lure people into it. It has to be attractive. There Mrs Valentina Berthelsen mentions that short travel time is absolutely crucial. I would like to point out that something like train on time is absolutely crucial that you can rely on the road map. I think we could get together and get there. Another thing we might be able to gather about is to create more coherence from the passengers' point of view, because if we want people to jump from the car into a train, there will probably be a parking lot at the train station. I'm sure there's gonna be a place for bikes and stuff like that. So there are some things that I think we can gather around to make the train more attractive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115211	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115212	But I am very much in agreement with the rapporteur from the Left on what is being said here. Then we will see if we can agree right down to the detail inside the negotiating room. I think it should be tested. However, I am entirely on the same wavelength as the Left rapporteur when it is said that reliability is important that trains should be on time. We already have a problem in Denmark today. Well, it's like a developing country. I also fully agree that the link between different modes of transport will be very important. I know that is something the Minister is interested in, and I think that we should use more energy to think about this: how can the bike play a role from home up to the bus stop or up to the station? How can we perhaps keep the cars out of the most crowded areas around the big cities and make sure that people want to put them away and take the train instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115309	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115310	Perhaps I have more security at the stations and a basic service that the Danish People's Party rapporteur mentioned. You can do your thing, for example. I think that is quite fundamental. But just a word about the outsourcing: it's as if it's such a scaremonger for somebody. In the left, it's just common sense. Once you have finished with the great work that is, it is natural for us to define what traffic citizens should have, and then ask about the price, just as when buying a new car. It is not ideology, it is common sense. As far as validators are concerned, we agree that this is a scarce resource, and we have to have it at our disposal so that everything does not go wrong, and there is a difference between train operation and the fact that validators have to be available.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115350	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115351	The differences of opinion are then beginning to emerge. I think that all the outsourcing that has been done in the Danish railway sector has been a major part of the problem that we are facing today. There are some, both in Banedanmark and perhaps also in the Ministry of Transport, who need to be spanked with a wet newspaper, because this has been warned several times that this was a bad idea. Perhaps this could be something we could get together with the Left to do in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115420	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we need to get to the Radical Left's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115433	Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. We in the Radical Left would also very much like the railways, so it is always a good idea to have some political care about railway work and debate. It is obvious that we are in the middle of making up for a shortfall in investment and a big mistake. We have had a number of years in which we have underinvested in the railway and not had the necessary political care. But what we are in now is huge projects with signal systems, electrification and train purchases. It is set in motion far too late and on top of a huge error rate on IC4. But it's started. What we see is, of course, that the massive investment we are making in the rail sector over these years is actually producing results. I think it's funny and interesting even to drive on the new track towards Ringsted and then later on the return trip to drive on the other track that runs via Roskilde, and feel the quality difference that comes from this big investment in a new track. There's no doubt that when these chickens come home when we've made the signal systems, the electrification and the train purchases that's started, but which we haven't seen the result of yet, we'll see a marked improvement in the railroad. So investment is under way. I also think, when you talk to both Banedanmark and DSB, that it seems that they are better than they were years ago that you have learned a lot. I am sure that the track with what we have set in motion will appear much more attractive in a few years' time than it does today. In the infrastructure negotiations that are under way right now, we will pursue not only the mechanical lines but also the reinforcements in the context of traffic, namely that which Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen mentioned earlier that you also have to go to the railroad and from the railroad. It is important to look at traffic and mobility as a whole. This is one of the things we have the opportunity to do in the infrastructure negotiations that have just begun. We would always like to look at that constructively. We support the desire to land a joint report today rather than to set up a commission to do one thing or the other before a given time. But it is not because we do not agree with the care of the railways being exercised here. As a tool, we want to choose a report here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115659	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just wanted to make a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115703	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen for friendly reception of the motion for a resolution and the fact that we have the debate, which is of course essential that we give our attention to the railways and respond to the challenges that lie ahead. I should like to dwell a little on what the rapporteur said about coherence. Does the Radical Left have any suggestions as to how we can ensure better coherence? For example: Here in the metropolitan area it is relatively fragmented when we look at the overall public transport picture, and there are some sub-optimisations within the different parts of public transport. Do you radicals have any idea how we could ensure better coherence in the capital, so that it actually comes to play as a symphony orchestra instead of such a little more scattered fight?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115747	Thank you. On the one hand, some reform work is needed; on the other hand, some modernism, some technology, is needed. With the reform work, I believe that we should launch a merger of all the Copenhagen transport companies, and on the modernisation side I think we should look at how to get technology to act as a good helper, not just in relation to when the train goes, but how the different modes of transport play together. This is all something that we have brought into the negotiations that have now begun under the auspices of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115817	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115818	These are very exciting thoughts, which I would like to sign for, and which escape very well with what we have been working on in the Left for a long period of time. So we look forward to discussing this further in the forthcoming negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115828	So do we, and if we all soak our heads, it may be that we get a better solution, so I sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115837	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There are no more brief comments. Then we shall welcome another Rasmus, and that is Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429115848	Thank you. The reasons for this proposal are set out in the very first line of the comments. It says: "The Danish railway is inefficient and expensive in operation. ▪ The fact that the railroad is expensive may not be a question of doubt, but we do not agree with Enhedslisten in an inefficient way. The purpose of this resolution is to indicate improvements in efficiency and productivity in the Danish rail sector. In other words, the intention is to save even more on an already impoverished railway. Today there is a huge backlog of renovations and reinvestments, and in addition, the basic maintenance of the railway is lagging behind. In the Enhedslisten, we are not against going after the railroad, and frankly, we did not quite get around the task of the so-called rail service. There is no general explanation of what is missing from renovations and what, in the view of the Enhedslisten, the lack of resources for maintenance means for the reprocessing of the need for renovations and reinvestments. We would really like to support such a study. Over many years there has been a slow assassination on the railroad. This means Banedanmark has been starved and there is a lack of money for renovation and maintenance. For yes, it costs money to maintain a good track, also more than it costs to maintain a road, even if the costs of private and municipal roads are not normally included in the inventories we see. But I also believe that you will have a much better means of transport and a means of transport which would be even better if it had not been exposed to the virtually systematic downgrading of the railways by successive governments. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120047	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the last second. Here you go, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120051	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your comment on the motion for a resolution. I am pleased that we share the need for the government's services to be followed up, which was a wise thing that was done, but it needs to be followed up. Then we also share the fact that the track is expensive, but then it is that Enhedslisten does not buy that it is ineffective. When we do a neighboring check, we can see what neighbouring countries are capable of performing for much less money than we spend in Denmark. That is why we call it ineffective, and it is not intended for the individual railway worker. After all, we have thousands of talented people working in the railway and working hard to make it work, but what is the problem is sometimes that it is organized wrong, and that is why we think there is something to be picked up if we look a little further at whether our neighbouring countries have found some smarter ways. That is why we allow ourselves to call it ineffective. It is because you simply spend much more money and get less out of it than in neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120154	Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120155	After all, it was the former narrow Left Government, which among other things. introduced the green harvester saving, which is on Banedanmark of about 125 million. kr. annual. When that is the way to deal with Banedanmark, then the quality is also then. This requires that they have the necessary resources both for those who have to manage it in the organization, but also for the concrete facilities on the field. I hope that we can remove that saving as soon as possible, and then it may well be that there are some pieces we need to move around, but what is crucial is that there is money for us to actually have a track that works effectively and that we get Banedanmark up to a level that we know it from... what is it called? I forgot. Transport Minister Vejdirektoratet!). Thank you!
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120248	Thank you to the Minister for being a sufflur. Here you go, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120254	Now we are not going to argue about figures, but the fact is that Banedanmark has huge resources, that is, almost 2,700 years' work plus a lot of consultants, and when we look at the economy, it is four times more money for the railway than for roads. It's not like the railroad's starving. Such a picture is sought out of the fact that the railway does not receive any money. The fact is, they get a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120318	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120319	I hope, then, that the rapporteur and I can agree that there is a lag behind both investment and reinvestment and maintenance of the track, and that there is not a lot of money. It is clear that when you come behind and have a backlog on the necessary investments to have a track in top shape, it is pushing us at the other end. It goes beyond punctuality. We have a huge task in delivering this product, and I hope we can do so in the infrastructure negotiations which are quietly under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120350	Thank you to Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. There are no more brief comments. And then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party and that is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120407	Thank you for the floor. Our neighbouring countries seem to have broken the code for a well-functioning and used network. In Sweden, the number of passenger kilometres has increased by 29% and the number of passengers has increased by 48%, and the same applies in Norway. In Germany, the number of passenger kilometres has increased by 23 per cent and the number of passengers has increased by 26 per cent. In both Sweden and Germany, the share of rail in total passenger transport work is now larger than in Denmark, which was not the case in 2009. The increase in our neighbouring countries largely corresponds to the fall that has occurred in Denmark. The problem in Denmark is not the speed, with all due respect for the hour model, which has also been mentioned several times on the platform but the challenge is that there is a lack of network. If you choose to drive trains, you want as few re-increases as possible. You want to get on the train in Hirtshals and drive all the way to Copenhagen or perhaps Hamburg without any shift. It's the long tough moves that bring out the customers. And then, surprisingly, people also want trains on time. As the comments on our proposal state, in May 2020 the Ministry of Transport came up with a service inspection of the railway, but it is probably mostly a review of all the problems and a finding that it has been necessary to reduce the requirement for DSB's rights from 86%. is 78%. for 2020 and that problems may only be resolved after 2030. Then we look ten years ahead, it is imperative to change course, so that we do not have even greater problems in ten years' time than those we have been challenged by already today. So we imagine in the Conservative People's Party that we are setting up a task force represented by industry, Banedanmark and the private actors and experts, so that we can find out how to create a world-class railroad, a product that people will use not out of need, but out of desire.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120625	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120645	Thank you. There should, of course, be no doubt that we in the New Citizens' Party are giving priority to roads over rails. We are also doing so in the infrastructure negotiations that we are in the process of doing at this stage. After all, this motion for a resolution is about digging the whole railroad. There are a lot of things we can agree with. I need answers to some questions about this. Is there, in fact, a sufficient basis now? Well, we have to recognise that there are some stretches where there are problems. This is the case, for example, with the coastal railway • to mention something very specific • where time has lagged over many years. But again, it is a question of priorities. Rail is not as high a priority on our list as the road network, and that is why we are going to have to resolve some issues before we can make our final position on whether or not we support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120743	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance immediately, so that is why it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429120806	Thank you for that, President. The railroad is worn out, out-of-date and challenged. That is what the conclusion of the service review initiated by the Minister in the wake of the parliamentary elections says, and that is unfortunately true, even though it is harsh words. On the other hand, we can say that the tickets are more expensive, if you have to drive between the parts of the country, there are some red tickets which are relatively cheap, but in general the tickets are expensive in Denmark. Passenger numbers have been declining in strong contrast to our neighbouring countries, where it has been increasing. So it is a huge paradox that we are faced with here: we have a railway that receives huge appropriations compared to the number of passengers we have, yet it feels as if everything is going back and that you do not get the service you deserve as a passenger. With the motion for a resolution here, we would like to highlight the situation in the railways. We would like to take the lead in following up on the service inspection, because it is fine that we have identified the challenges, but it also needs to be followed up. That is why I think it is very important that we have had this debate today, and I think it has actually been a good debate in which the various parties have made good input into how we proceed. The Danish railway is inefficient and expensive in operation, and I can illustrate this with some figures, without it becoming a form of talmagic. If we look at the budget law for 2021, i.e. this year, Banedanmark has been granted 2,651 years' work for comparison, the Vejdirektoratet has been granted 737 years' work. There is, however, a certain difference. If we convert to kroner and ear, then the railway has been granted a total of 10 billion. kr. this year, including purchases of traffic, the payment, DSB, Arriva, etc. In order to run on uncompetitive routes and to compare, the State road area has been granted 2.5 billion. kr. Is it the case that the vast majority of Danes drive the railroad? No, it's not. Unfortunately, it is a low number of passengers that we spend a great deal of money on. And 90%. of the traffic work is carried out on the roads. So in the Left, we are not buying that one because the railroad is starving and we are not giving any money to the railroad and that is what is causing it. No, there must be other explanations, as we can see in particular when we cross our borders with our neighbouring countries, where less money, i.e. less funding, has been made available for more passengers, so there must be room to do something better and different room to change tracks. If we look at the cost per. personal kilometers, that is, how much it costs to transport a Dane 1 km. It's also an interesting figure... so it costs six cents for society if you take the car, while if you take the train, it costs 1 DKK. And 10 cents. It is therefore a very, very expensive mode of transport, and there may well be arguments for this, because we want a country that is linked and the railway contributes to linking our country across the board. That is not what we are contesting. We are merely contesting the fact that expenditure has become so high and we are contesting the fact that standard answer no. 1 from some is: Then we just grant some more money. But where will that money come from? We have to take them from something else, such as... the many cycle paths, I think we agree that we would like to roll out so that we really give it gas in the bicycle area in the coming years, and for example. from the road improvements needed across the country. So instead of pursuing a railway policy where we just say that we have to see that there are major problems and that we then have to find some more money, we would like to try the trail of where we are trying to find some ways to learn from our neighbouring countries so that we get more for the money. We think that is a good approach. Isn't there anything positive to say about the railroad? Yes, there is, and it has also been highlighted. It is very positive that it has just been decided to buy new electric trains, and when they arrive and are about to be in place by 2030, there is then the prospect of significant operational improvements with more trains on time and also a better economy in the railway. That's a good thing. It is positive that, back in 2009, we allocated a huge amount of money to a signal programme that is about to be rolled out. The negative is just that it has been delayed many, many years so that it will be much more expensive and that we will benefit from it much later. But it is positive that it is on the way, and it must, of course, be achieved. It is also positive that we have together launched a large number of rail projects that are being rolled out around the country, and there are some of the things that bother passengers, train buses and so on, because you cannot drive trains while you are building on rails. But the negative thing is that many of these projects have been delayed and much more expensive, among other things. because validators are a shortcoming in Banedanmark as pointed out by Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the SF. Validators • a group of important technicians has suddenly become a bottleneck, which makes us lose huge sums of money and we lose huge prestige and goodwill for the railroad. So it is such a concrete thing that we are focusing on and that we also agree to take a hard look at, and that I also know the Minister of Transport is working on finding solutions with Banedanmark. So there are many reasons why we are standing where we stand, and there are also some good things on the way, but that basically does not change the fact that the railway is too expensive in relation to what we get out of it, and that is why we must, of course, look to our neighbouring countries to see how we can do better, and it is a joint responsibility to do so. Because we have had changing governments in recent years, and we will have them in the future too, and that is why it is a joint responsibility for us to carry out this task. We cannot patent it in any of the parties, but we fully agree on the vision: the railway must be more attractive and we want more people to take the train. And that's what we're talking about here. Then it may be that they say that we need to calm down until 2030, they say that we should do nothing. Well, while we are calming down to roll out the signal program and electrification and the electric train, we can do a piece of work that separates us from our good neighbors and learns from the good things they have learned, for example. in Norway, where the railway has really been reformed and a downward curve has been turned into something really, really positive. So I am pleased about that, and I also sense that the Minister is open to us in the forthcoming negotiations to try to make some clues as to how we can look at these improvements. I myself believe that a reorganisation is some of it, is part of the answer, perhaps internally in Banedanmark, I might guess, but Banedanmark's interaction with others outside may also be something that needs to be improved, that is to say to look at the railway sector under one, without throwing it all up in the air and fragmenting it completely. That is not what we are talking about, and we must of course learn lessons from the things that work in other countries. What it takes for people to take the train, which has the basic disadvantage, that it runs from a place where we are not, to a place where we don't need anything more to lure people to the train, because there is usually a transport connected to it at each end of it, if I may say it is that we can count on the train running on time. And that will be something that the Left is pursuing in the coming year, namely that we must have trains on time, the road map must be a promise that can be trusted, and that cannot be sufficiently achieved in many places today. It is quite fundamental; we must have a better service, there must be security at the stations, there should not smell of fecalities and other unpleasant things at the stations, but there must be delicious and clean and inviting, and there must be the opportunity to park your bike and your car so that you can jump into the train. There are many things I think we can agree on, and some of this is also evident from the government's proposals for the traffic negotiations, so that it becomes more attractive. Then there are those who want to invest a great deal of money, for example. in a new track in East Jutland. We do not agree with that in the Left, but peace be with it. After all, we are allowed to have different priorities as a starting point for the negotiations. Finally, there is this connection which is absolutely crucial, that is to say, that it will be easy and convenient to use public transport, to jump from the train to the bus or to the metro, or whatever it is about, and there we really have something to work with here in the metropolitan area, and there I am glad that the Radical Left has given the ball up to a reform of this. We in the Left are quite ready to go into that. In summary, I think that this has been a good debate, a constructive debate in which we have not talked so much about each other, but maybe we have found some common denominators, and I look forward to the committee's work being able to land it here with a report which might perhaps be that we are working further in the transport negotiations on the basis of objectives that we can agree to pursue. For one thing is certain: the railway is not working properly, it is too expensive, we spend too much money, compared to what we get out of it, and we must and must improve it. This is what passengers expect from us, the rail workers expect from us, and the taxpayers expect from this. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429121737	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There's a brief comment, so here's to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429121743	Thank you. I look forward to seeing what the rapporteur is proposing for the text of the report. I just have one question I'd like to get an answer to. After all, the former VLAK government's traffic plan was intended to save 1.1 billion. kr. on the railway between 2025 and 2030 through efficiency improvements and outsourcing. Is it still the policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429121808	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429121809	This is due to the fact that DSB is fortunately in the process of improving efficiency, and as they introduce the new trains, DSB will have a much more efficient operation. So it is, of course, in terms of the fact that there must be less contractual payments to DSB, and indeed DSB has its own objectives, so there is nothing strange about that. We don't just spend money to spend it. If it is the case that DSB streamlines itself and has less need of a state subsidy, then it is only positive, and then we release some money that we can use for forward-looking investments in the railway or other things. So it is not an end in itself to spend a certain amount on the railway, and if we have made it more efficient so that we can save that money, and we think we are doing so, we must of course spend it on something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429121855	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks, and we are then phoning off. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429121920	The debate is open, and first of all we must welcome the Minister for Transport, who is already ready. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429121942	Thank you, President, for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution tabled. Let me begin by outlining the content of the motion for a resolution. Motion for a resolution B 158, which we are now considering, proposes to instruct the government to begin by the end of June 2021 an investigation into the possibilities for better ferry service by Bornholm, with direct daily connection with a rapid ferry ferry between Rønne and the Copenhagen/capital area. The authors of the motion for a resolution justify the fact that the current transport services have over the years been the subject of much debate and dissatisfaction, and the authors of the motion consider it fundamentally untenable and in principle wrong that Danish travellers from Bornholm to the metropolitan area should transit through Sweden under Swedish conditions in order to get there. The proposers, i.e. Dansk Folkeparti, also propose to investigate the possibility of amending an agreement of which Dansk Folkeparti is a part, namely the agreement on the future ferry service of Bornholm, which was concluded in 2014. It is an agreement that contains a very detailed description of the routes and the operational concept up to 2030, and that is in fact a few more days, it has to be said. In addition, it should also be mentioned that the Danish People's Party was also part of the political agreement reached back in 2002 on the future ferry service of Bornholm, in which it was decided to close the former direct link between Copenhagen and Rønne. Therefore, let us put it this way, it is rather unconventional that the Danish People's Party chooses to table a motion for a resolution which calls for a change in a settlement of which the Danish People's Party itself is a part. This question could have been raised in the conciliation circle and discussed there. We have also had a meeting in the conciliation circle where the conciliation parties were invited, even the Danish People's Party was invited, to present their views in more detail. There was no opportunity to do so, but we must then take the debate here. Having said that, the government agrees that it is important that the infrastructure to and from Bornholm is efficient and adequate, not only in the day-to-day but also in the extremely exceptional situations, such as, for example: Covid-19 was born in connection with the Swedish border closure. It was an extraordinary situation. We have therefore also proposed, in the proposal we have put forward, that Denmark should start a study on alternative transport opportunities between Bornholm and the rest of Denmark in order to create a better link between the parts of the country. The motion for a resolution also states that fast ferries should be deployed on the shortest possible routes, with fast ferries having very large emissions, and it strongly opposes allowing a fast ferry to sail a daily departure between Rønne and Copenhagen. However, there are other options which have also been outlined by the government, and we naturally hope to discuss this further with the parties. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122312	Thank you for your ministerial speech. There's a brief comment, so here's to Mr. Knox. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122316	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, to the Minister for the speech. I am of course aware of the Minister's, what should we call it, discreet criticism of the fact that the Danish People's Party has squandered itself to table a motion for a resolution which deals with something that is conciliation. Now, I would say that this is probably not the first time in the history of Denmark that there are parties here at Christiansborg who are tabling resolutions on something about which there is conciliation at Christiansborg and where you yourself are also a party to the agreement. And I would like to ask the Minister how the Minister feels about the fact that the Socialists, in a recent proposal just over two weeks ago, as one of the incentives, just described a study of what the situation will be like in the future, not least for the future continuous ferry service of Bornholm? The government is allowed, but the Danish People's Party must not be allowed to understand this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122413	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122414	I'll forgive you if mr. Hans Kristian Skibby doesn't remember the government's proposal right down to the details, that's fair enough, because there are many things to keep track of at the moment. But what is being pointed out are alternatives, including, for example, alternatives. on strengthening the air links between Kastrup and Bornholm, and that is one of the things we need to look at. What you have to remember is that covid has shown us that special situations can arise, now it has been a pandemic, but it could also be other, it could be a zoonosis, it could be other things that make you unable to move around for some reason; for that matter it could also be a release from Barsebäck God forbid. No, we must not summon the higher powers, I am sorry, President. But it could be something that we could not foresee, and in this respect it is relevant to look at what is then of alternatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122523	Thank you. It's sir. His Kristian Skibby's turn, and not that kind of expression here. The Minister of Transport No). Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122529	The minister refers to this here with the type of ferries that provide the sailing today, and that one has to think of shortest sailing time in relation to the different types of ferries and their impact on speed, wavesvulp, and I do not know what, there are many things. And then another question to the Minister could be whether the Minister is not aware that since the conclusion of the agreement back in 2002, there have in fact also been developed in those years on different types of ferries all over the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122603	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122604	Indeed, as the conciliation circle will be aware, it is also decided to build a new ferry on the route, which as such does not have the new thrust technology, that is to say that which is the propulsion engine, but which is future-proof, in that alternative fuels will be available when they have been developed, so that the ferry company has thought of developing new technologies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122641	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122701	Thank you, President. In the social democracy we basically believe that good transport links across the country are essential for creating a more coherent Denmark. That is why we also believe that it should be easy to get to and from Bornholm. In this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that before June 2021 the government should begin a study of the possibilities of better ferry service by Bornholm with daily connection with a speed ferry between Rønne and Copenhagen slash the capital area. The Government has already proposed, in its proposal for a new infrastructure plan, to launch a study of the possibilities of alternative transport to and from Bornholm, with the aim of looking at how we can create a better link between the parts of the country. Therefore, we in the Social Democratic Party do not believe that it makes sense to launch a simultaneous study of the possibilities of a daily connection with a speed ferry between Rønne and Copenhagen slash the metropolitan area. Moreover, fast ferries have a very high energy consumption and high emissions, which is why they should be deployed on the shortest possible routes, and the government therefore proposes among other things. also explore, in its proposal for a new infrastructure plan, the possibilities for more climate-friendly solutions, including in relation to current and future fast ferries to and from Bornholm. In addition, we in the Social Democratic Party are a little incomprehensible that the Danish People's Party, with the motion for a resolution, is proposing to amend the 2014 agreement on the future ferry service of Bornholm until 2030. It was an agreement that the Danish People's Party itself helped to conclude, as did the Danish People's Party itself in 2002 to decide that the former link between Copenhagen and Rønne should close. In other words, the Social Democrats cannot therefore support the proposal in this Chamber, but we are willing to see whether we can jointly, across the middle, land a joint report in the Committee on Transport, where we reach agreement on a good text for traffic to and from Bornholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122905	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429122911	I should be surprised if something new came out from a Socialist rapporteur right after a Socialist Minister for Transport has been in the Chair. I hope that there will be synergy and not too much waves from that point of view. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur about the study which the Socialists are allowed to propose bypassing the conciliation circle in connection with the social democrats' infrastructure proposals. It's so legal. But something that the Danish People's Party has put forward on 23 February, a long time before, is so per. definition illegal. I am, of course, sorry that I am a criminal in that sense. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur: if we now have the study that the Socialists then propose for us to have, will that study also include all the possibilities for perspectives in relation to daily departures directly from Rønne to the Copenhagen area? Will this be a logical part of the study committee which will be drawn up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123012	Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123014	After all, we have now invited negotiations where the Danish People's Party also participates. Let us take the concrete negotiations on such a form in the negotiating room. I would say that what is important for many parts of the country, including Bornholm, is that there are also some fast routes. This was also the reason why Copenhagen-Rønne was actually laid down or moved down to Køge. It was because the Øresund Bridge came, and then it was quite fast to drive from Copenhagen to Ystad and then take a quick ferry over there on a short stretch. You actually got more than half the travel time. That is why I also have a great deal of focus on ensuring that there are good air links to Bornholm and that we can improve them, so that the people who have some quick meetings around us, for example. The metropolitan area can quickly come over here and has good opportunities for it. And then let's take a look at the ferry service. If that is what is being brought in by the Danish People's Party, then we must negotiate it. But good and fast connections to and from Bornholm I also think the Bornholmers would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123111	Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123112	I think it is very telling that I am asking something about the ferry service, and then the rapporteur begins to explain something about aircraft. I didn't ask about airplanes. I totally agree that there should be airplanes for Bornholm, but I don't really see what that has to do with this part. The Socialists have said in an infrastructure proposal that there should be an investigation. I ask, then, whether the Socialists' proposal for a study will also include a concrete assessment of daily transport to and from the metropolitan area. I am not asking if my own proposal, I am asking about the Socialists' proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123150	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123151	And as I started my previous answer by saying: let us take the specific negotiations in the negotiating room. That is where we give and take and where hopefully we can reach a broad agreement on a transport policy with an infrastructure and investment plan for Denmark up to 2035. I also hope that the Danish People's Party will be there. Then the Danish People's Party is free to bring these things in, and then we can see if we can reach an agreement on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123215	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123218	Thanks for the speech. I understand from the speech that the rapporteur refers to the fact that the solution to the challenge currently facing us must be put into negotiations with consequences up to 2035. This means that, at worst, 14 to 15 years may pass before the challenge of passing through Skåne is solved at the moment. Is it satisfactory to the Bornholmers if the solution announced by the rapporteur is not reached until 2033, 2034 or 2035?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123248	Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123249	I now think that the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have both been very much in favour of finding solutions for transport to and from Bornholm. It goes on to say that up to Christmas we had problems with people coming home or coming both ways actually. That's where I think the government reacted quickly. And I do not see for myself that if there are any current problems, it is something that has to be shot at 2035. In other words, we can sit down in the negotiations, where the Left is also present, and then we can look at the priorities of the individual parties. One of the things that the government has presented in general about all the things that we have played out on, and in relation to the things that the various parties with which we are negotiating bring into the negotiations, is that we also need to have a good agreement on when the individual things are to be implemented. If something is urgent for one part of the country and has to happen before anything else, then it makes sense for it to be brought to the negotiating table. I cannot stand here and negotiate from Parliament's platform, but I am sure that the rapporteur will have the Left Transport and Negotiating Delegation bring things to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123356	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. There are no more brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Nice, thanks for that. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Left, who is also a Bornholmer. Here you go, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123424	Thank you for that, President. And the fact that I am a Bornholmer, citizen of course for quality. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising this issue in the Parliament, because it is actually something that has filled a lot in the media landscape in recent months. And in the Left, we agree that a lasting solution must be found. The departure of Bornholm is not only challenged first by the Danish special rules and subsequently by the Swedish, which are not coordinated between the countries. From a Bornholm point of view, this is a huge mistake. We agree with Dansk Folkeparti that first the Danish ager and then the Swedish does not make it easier to work and live or operate across the bridge. I am one of those who attribute great development potential to a Scandinavian cooperation, and they are then not fulfilled because they are unable to conduct a dialogue. But the solution is no longer sailing time, for it has always been weathered until the border restrictions came that challenged the relations. A longer sailing route will mean a lower regularity and not least a significantly worse comfort. The solution must be to make a legally binding agreement with Sweden on a transport corridor. But something like that takes time, and we can't wait for that. So we can accommodate DF so far that we would like to join around, that these possibilities for a transport corridor through Sweden are fairly quickly unveiled. If and if a corridor waits for itself or the negotiations are dragging out, we must of course find a possible landing place near the metropolitan area and explore the possibility of launching the voyage to Bornholm with the current sailing equipment. If nothing else, this will help to motivate Sweden, because if and if you do not want to cooperate, then we will find another and better solution. However, in order to be able to carry out this work, it is necessary to agree with this approach in the Traffic Contact Council, so it is my and the Left's clear expectation that all of this will be coordinated closely with the Traffic Contact Council. Because it is important that, when it comes to transport, we listen to all the questions it concerns. We cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but we would like to be involved in writing a report in committee so that we can resolve these problems far along the way and have them described; not only in 2035 but very quickly, because there are also limits to the extent to which the children's patience extends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123713	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123718	I hope that the rapporteur is aware of the fact that on page 3 of the comments on the proposal it says that of course the Contact Council should be involved in this analysis work, which we have proposed in the Danish People's Party, and that an external adviser should also be involved, looking at it here outside Christiansborg and the Ministry of Transport. So I would like to ask the rapporteur about this with the mandate for this study, which the government has to come up with and which the government may well propose, but which the Danish People's Party must not propose: does the rapporteur and the Left Party agree that it is of course reasonable that when one wants a study, the study should also include all possibilities, including daily counting of people who need transport to and from Bornholm via the metropolitan area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123814	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123814-2	I have listened to both the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur that there is a great deal of understanding that there are the challenges that people as travellers to and from Bornholm are experiencing at the moment and that this is something that we cannot stand for in the long run. That is why I will, and the Left will, of course, support the Danish People's Party in having all the relevant possible solutions examined. But let us now have that report written, let us now see what we would like to have examined. Of course, we can help to propose this in the report. Then I am sure that the Minister will deliver the investigation and make sure that it gets up and running, but of course in close cooperation with the conciliation parties behind this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123856	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123857	I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that there is a somewhat clearer answer out of the mouth of the rapporteur of the Left than there was from the mouths of both the Minister for Transport and the Social Democrats. I couldn't really find out what this mission would contain in relation to the daily transport to the metropolitan area from Bornholm. But, of course, I am pleased that the Left will take a positive view of this becoming part of the mandate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123924	Well, we are involved in this mandate because it will happen in the conciliation circle behind the departure of Bornholm, in which the Danish People's Party is, thank God, also part of it. So, of course, we get participation all the way. It can't wait. It was also one of my points in my speech to 2035 when the Social Democratic Infrastructure Plan has finally been set up. It's best to do that tomorrow, no later than the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429123950	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Then we are in a situation where the Minister would like to respond to what has been said. So I'd like to welcome the Minister of Transport again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124006	I would just like to take advantage of the extraordinary opportunity provided for in paragraph 28 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to correct something that could become a misunderstanding in the further debate, namely the misunderstanding about that I think that Mr. His Kristian Skibby perceived it as Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen referred to the Contact Council of Bornholm as a criticism of the motion for a resolution. Actually, that's not how I heard it. On the contrary, it was a clarification that it is precisely essential to involve the Contact Council as far as possible and at all possible. As you know, in the context of the exceptional and exceptional situation in which Sweden literally closed its borders at a few hours' notice, it was not possible to consult the Contact Council. We have also had a dialogue with the Contact Council about this, that is, that in the very exceptional situation it was not possible. Some of the other things that then happened in the following period, when it has to be said that some of the changes on the Swedish side were also withdrawn at very short notice, were that it actually succeeded in involving the Contact Council in the work. So it's just to clarify, so nobody sits and has a wrong sense of what it's all about. I fully acknowledge the statement that came from Peter Juel-Jensen. I totally agree. Of course we do. It is very important to involve them. It is very important to listen to the good recommendations that come. After all, it is representatives of the Bornholmers themselves who are therefore also relevant in the debate. And I certainly didn't see it as sir. Peter Juel-Jensen said as a criticism of the motion for a resolution. So it's just to make it clear clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124209	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124214	I do not believe that I made a criticism which does not tolerate the light of day in the Folketing. I don't think I've ever done that. I simply asked for the floor to ask questions, in relation to whether the rapporteur of the Left was aware of what is on page 3 of the motion for a resolution, in writing to all Members of Parliament. And it says precisely that you must apply: the assistance of an external consultant and the involvement of the Contact Board for the transport of Bornholm, etc. That is why I mentioned it, i.e. whether the rapporteur was not aware of it. Otherwise, there was no criticism of what the rapporteur said in relation to the Contact Council. I haven't had any stock in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124253	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124254	It was also just to be sure that there was no misunderstanding about it in the subsequent debate; that is just why I took the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124303	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Juel-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124312	I should also like to make one brief comment. I am very, very pleased that the Minister is taking down the cooperation with the Traffic Liaison Council to such an extent. It is the Minister's advice that the Minister himself has set it up; it may well be that it is not the Minister himself, but then one of the Minister's predecessors. But it's a very, very important advice where you should play ball against each other. When I put a great deal of emphasis on this, it is because there have been examples that you may not have just heard the advice. I think that the Minister is doing well and is very, very good and nice to enter into dialogue with the Council. And, of course, there may be some special situations, but when you have the chance, you have to do it. There have been a few examples. There has been only one under the current minister, and I think it was in connection with that remote bus station that you did not get to hear the Traffic Contact Council. And this may mean that the bus that the Bornholmers love so much, the Bornholmerbus, cannot park near the Central Station, but must get to the distance bus station. There they forgot to hear the advice, but otherwise I would only like to praise the Minister for the opportunity that the Minister gives to the Bornholmers to express himself on their own affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124413	I do not think that much more can be achieved than being praised by Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, both because of the Bornholm point of view and because Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen also represents an opposition party. I thank you most humbly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124432	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is the SF's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124446	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative in this debate. It is very clear that there have been some quite serious challenges for the Bornholmers and their safety in relation to the possibility of coming to Denmark via the transport corridors we have been facing, especially in the light of corona. There is no doubt on the part of the SF that we have to think in some emergency preparedness and some stronger solutions and some stronger opportunities to transport ourselves as a Bornholmer in the future. I would like to see a thorough dialogue with Sweden on the importance of the transport corridor passing through their country for our children. And then I hope that we will take note of what has been of the challenges, and I feel that the Minister is doing the same. There is no doubt that we have to resolve it as quickly as we can, but I think it will require us to think a little carefully about it. And I really believe that the negotiations that have been called for are a fine opportunity to do so. I hope that we will not come up with a solution that will only have to do something by 2030 • that would be very inappropriate. But I really think that the arena is appropriate, and I also think that the conciliation group we have can appropriately sit down and discuss what we can do together to prevent similar problems in the future and perhaps just make it easier for Bornholmers on a normal everyday basis to get to and from the mainland in Denmark. So I support the intention in the proposal from the Danish People's Party, but I think it is unnecessary to adopt it in this Chamber, especially when we can have a slightly more detailed discussion of it in the negotiations that have just been called for than we can achieve here today in the 30 minutes that have passed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124650	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124655	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think it is a little strange that it should be said that this is unnecessary when we have called for it on 23 February. But what the government is proposing is something that was announced at a press conference in Kalundborg a few weeks ago. Then I do not think I should stand by and withdraw my proposal because others are making a copycat and saying that the rest of us must not table these motions for resolutions because we are in agreement. I think that is a bit like shooting small birds with very large guns in relation to this motion for a resolution. Because we are not violating any rules on conciliation and so on. by tabling a motion for a resolution. And I believe that we have made a proposal first, and it has always been customary here at Christiansborg, that things should be dealt with in the order in which things come. There I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the SF will specifically oppose the fact that in the Commission which is being drawn up on the basis of the government's recommendations, it is clear that there will also be a study of the possibilities of daily access of passengers directly to the area of the capital from Bornholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124803	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124804	I understand that the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party does not think he should withdraw his motion for a resolution. Nor do we think in the SF that the Danish People's Party should. We think it is quite good that we are taking this debate in the Chamber. But we also think that now that other options with a slightly larger trading room have offered themselves, it would be smartest to take the discussion there. Not that it does anything, that we are also having a debate now, we think that is fine, but it must be said that both the money and the opportunities for action are a little more in a debate such as the infrastructure negotiations than in what we are dealing with now. And it may be that there will be a need for a little more money on the table, so that we can solve this problem also after the head of the Danish People's Party. Then I would say that in the SF we will not object to the possibility of sailing to Copenhagen, but I think it might be smarter to bet on, for example. Køge, without me knowing it yet. We have to discuss this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124906	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124908	In fact, I would like to raise the mark in the middle of the Chamber, even if it is already here, and say that the more rapporteurs I ask, the clearer the answer I get. And now I have actually managed to get a clear answer from a rapporteur that SF 100% would like to ensure and help support that this will be part of a future commission. I would, of course, welcome that. I would also like to say that in the motion for a resolution that we have tabled, we also say that we must, of course, look at, for example, the Køge model, with which we think it would be quite obvious to combine it as a different option from that of the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429124945-2	I do not think I said that the SF believes that it must be done in this mandate, but we said that we would certainly not oppose it being examined. We think that's only a good idea. But in addition, I think we can find some fine solutions together with the Danish People's Party, and I think we should have a discussion about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125004	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125020	Thank you for that and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. The Danish People's Party will require the government to investigate the possibilities for better operation with a quick ferry directly between Rønne and the Copenhagen area, and we are opposed to this because of the emissions such a connection would cause. The crucial solution to the problem we are facing is, for me, clearly to get rid of the corridors through spare parts through cooperation with the Swedes. The Øresund region has suffered terrible damage in the current situation of the epidemic, but it is also clear that the long-term solution to Bornholm's transport problems should go overland via Sweden and in good agreement with the Swedes. I have noted in a previous debate in the Chamber today, where we talked about a Swedish desire to drive a night train through Denmark, that there was the most natural thing in the world that a united Parliament backed up giving this permission, and that is the spirit we usually have Nordic cooperation in We have such a trusting relationship with the Nordic countries that we did not have any particular problems with being a cop, if I may say so, domestic traffic over Sweden, and no one had ever imagined that it would go as wrong as it has been, here under Corona. Well, of course we would really like to examine in the future report what we can do to also have emergency preparedness because these things can happen. And we shall vote against the specific proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125150	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go to Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125207	We have before us a motion for a resolution which, in my view, is quite reasonable. A study of a better ferry service by Bornholm with direct connection to a fast ferry between Rønne and the metropolitan area is something that Enhedslisten supports. The existing links with Bornholm leave something to be desired, as the authors also well describe in the comments. In the proposal's comments, the authors have put forward a number of questions which are good to get around in a study of the possibilities of a new ferry link between the capital and Bornholm. The authors of the proposals also, in a sensible way, state that they do not want to impose specific solutions on the government which need to be examined, but they do affect the investigation with this series of questions. This is, in fact, a very good way to go to an investigation. However, I would just like to make one comment on the proposal. After all, we are in the midst of a climate crisis in which an almost unanimous Parliament, including the Danish People's Party, has accepted our climate legislation and the ambitious objectives set for the climate. That is why it is obvious, and I think that perhaps it is an oversight on the part of the proposers that a possible new ferry connection should not, of course, contribute to increased Danish CO2 We have, unfortunately, already major challenges with the discharge of climate gases from our fast ferries. So the Enhedslisten supports the proposal, but wants to make a call to investigate that the establishment of a new ferry service must of course take place on condition that it is a climate-friendly solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125346	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Merete Scheelsbeck.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125403	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling motions for resolutions. As has already been mentioned several times up here from the platform, there is an agreement that we are also behind, but we also recognise, of course, that through the coronatide there have been some very special challenges with transport through Sweden, and that in the context of the negotiations on infrastructure, we are now looking at the possibilities for alternative transport options, including for example. a better flight connection. We support this in the Conservative People's Party. That is why we cannot support this proposal immediately, but of course we would very much like to see the possibility of finding a joint report on the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125451	Thank you. There was just a request for a brief comment here at the end. Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125457	I would actually like to ask the Conservative rapporteur something that I have asked others about in the past, and it may not come as a surprise. But I am very interested to know whether the Conservative People's Party is prepared to see that in a future study and this could be a government inquiry, as it will certainly do, so of course there will also be room to examine the possibilities of carrying out a sailing, where you transport directly into the metropolitan area. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125528	Well, if it is a great wish for the Danish People's Party to get it in and the Danish People's Party puts it on the table in the negotiations, we could not dream of opposing it. We therefore think that we should look at all the options and look at what can best be done and what will be the best solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125544	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we should welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125605	Thank you. I've been standing on this platform before, talking about the very warm relationship I have to Bornholm, to Sunshine Lake. I've been there for so many years because my children's father's family is from there. The first time I came to Bornholm in 2004 was in addition to the single time as a kid, where it rained, I remember the whole week we were there, and I remember my parents telling me that we ended up having to rent a caravan because our tent was kind of flooded. But I've had a lot of good vacations on Bornholm. And the first time I was on Bornholm after my childhood was then in 2004 with my children's father, and I remember that we took the ferry from Copenhagen to Bornholm, and I also remember it as if it were faster than that ferry from Køge, but it may of course be that I remember wrong. But I think it is really important that we ensure that the whole of Denmark is well bound together, and it is of course also about ensuring that we can get to and from Bornholm. That is why I think it makes a great deal of sense to keep looking at whether the solutions that exist are also appropriate, whether they are working properly. And then I can say that I personally like the idea that you are also looking at the possibility of establishing this ferry route. So I think there's a lot of things in it. In addition, I also very much welcome the fact that we are looking at air traffic and securing it. And in New Citizens, we would like to see domestic air traffic also secured by eliminating these anti-competitive taxes and charges on domestic flights in particular. So it's also one of the tools you can use. But it is clear that transport by ferry is also something you need when you have a car with, and there are good reasons why you can't take the car with you. So we think it looks positive, and we also think it looks positive if we can make a joint report so that we get this thing going. Because it is extremely important that we are constantly focused on Denmark being better bound together, and this also applies, of course, to the lovely island in the lake, Sunshine Lake Bornholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125820	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Mr President, the rapporteur is going to have to piss off, and I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance immediately, so we must now welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429125851	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign for the good debate we have had here in the Danish Parliament about the transport situation to and from Bornholm. It may well be that not many people take part in such a debate here in the Folketing. There is usually only one from each party, and that is the basic conditions. Nevertheless, I think we actually got around nicely in relation to the situation, the snapshot there was, not least before Christmas, where one suddenly experienced the absurd situation that Denmark was cut off from Denmark. It was something that probably puzzled a lot of people, and it was also something that caused great concerns, and it was also something that gave a lot of Bornholmers a really bad experience. And I think it also gave a lot of those who had intended to go to Bornholm and celebrate Christmas, etc., an equally bad experience. In the Danish People's Party we do not think it can be right that we have a model that makes it possible at all, but it was nevertheless some of the situation that we experienced at least. And now it can be said that good negotiations and a minister who, after all, must also have the cadeau that an effort has been made to remedy as quickly as possible, which was obviously not enough, in view of the fact that the situation is optimal in the case of Bornholm. It was for this reason that the Danish People's Party chose to table a motion for a resolution in which we spent a great deal of time making a long formulation of it with a large number of factual truths and historical outlines of what is actually the situation behind the agreement that we have today. For Dansk Folkeparti knew, of course, that we had an agreement about the ferry service to Bornholm. But that does not change the fact that the parties are, of course, allowed to table resolutions in the Folketing. And then, of course, the art of the possible is to get a majority for it and get all the parties that are in the conciliation circle, so that the situation can be better than the situation we are experiencing today. It would not be, and it is no secret, that I have received criticism from several wings and parties that it was, however, a strange way; that such a motion for a resolution should be tabled. Nevertheless, I was even more surprised that, a few weeks ago, the government decided more or less to make the same proposal with a statement from the government about the forthcoming infrastructure agreement, which is precisely what it wants, to have an analysis and a debate on the status and conditions of the future in relation to the ferry service of Bornholm. The government can, but the political parties can't. I find that difficult to understand, and I do not think I have any logic whatsoever in it. These are old agreements and, as I have asked several of the rapporteurs, it is therefore the case that since 2002 and the permanent cessation of operation in 2004, there has been a lot of water running in the stream since then. And this also means that the development of types of ferries has changed over the almost 20 years we are talking about. There have actually been so many more models on the drawing board that you can have other types of ferries delivered, which can also influence it in relation to sailing speeds, problems in relation to too much wavesvulp, which of course someone will complain about along the coasts. It makes good sense that you don't want to feel the way they saw it at Aarhus when you started with the first catamarans and the recreational fishermen actually went into the tub because the boat sailed too fast. That's not what we're out on this case. Here we are, in fact, just making a model in which we get an insight into what developments since 2002 say and what opportunities we have to put it into a future agreement that can significantly improve sailing conditions and which may also take a hold with different transit options, transport options. There is also the environmental aspect mentioned by several of the rapporteurs: can the number of journeys across Sweden be reduced with long road distances and fewer cars run with few people? What will it gain from environmental impact if traffic can be made close to the metropolitan area, where the majority of those seeking transport are also going? These are some things that the Danish People's Party wants to clarify, and we hope that will also be part of a future investigation, which the government is also proposing. And I fully agree that a government agreement is higher than a proposal from an opposition party. But it just doesn't change the fact that it was already on 23 February that the Danish People's Party made this proposal, and the government came so slow in April and said: Now we have just got a good idea. So whether it's the chicken or the egg that came first, don't worry about it! And, of course, I hope the Minister will agree to that. And, of course, I am very interested to know whether the other parties involved in the ferry shipping agreement with Bornholm are completely open to the fact that, of course, we must also include an examination of the possibilities that will be involved in examining the conditions for the return of direct ferry services to the metropolitan area, as we were used to having up to 2004. We are not saying that the parties should support the idea. We are merely saying that the parties must support the fact that it is fully elucidated, thorough and objective and fair, as are all sorts of other proposals, both in relation to more aircraft options and emergency ferry systems and anything else that can gain ground. So it is of course the hope and expectation of the Danish People's Party that when we get to where we are going to have this written into an agreement, we, too, all parties, are open to having all the possibilities clarified. If we can get this far, I think we can actually agree. I have heard many good speeches from the rapporteurs from the various parties here today. I think perhaps enough that the Socialist rapporteur and the rapporteur from the Left had suffered too much wool in their mouths in explaining the party's position, in concrete terms, precisely in relation to the security that the guarantee that the mandate that is being drawn up will also contain exactly what I said before: that we will have all the transport options that are available, including the approach directly from Bornholm to the metropolitan area. I recognise that it may be difficult for people to answer a question, but I think that since I am so specific, it should also have been possible to answer it. But thank you for your efforts, thank you for a good debate. I have no more comments to make except that we are now in committee with the motion for a resolution. And, of course, we hope that we will find a report in which the Danish People's Party can also find itself in relation to those parties which have been less positive about the things that lie in this specific resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429130654	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429130657	Thank you. We're not gonna talk about each other again. If I cannot give any guarantees as to what is going to be included in a social democratic infrastructure proposal, then the explanation is probably that I am from the Left, and that makes it a little difficult for me to be able to guarantee what is going to happen in that negotiation process. I think I told the rapporteur quite clearly that the way to deal with this is to have a report where we agree on what we would like to have examined and that we take it into the conciliation circle, and in the conciliation circle I do not think the rapporteur will be opposed to us having these matters examined. But I cannot give any guarantees as to how a social democratic government will lead a process of negotiation around their infrastructure plan, and then the rapporteur must be politically experienced.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429130750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429130751	Yes, but I do not think I asked the rapporteur of the Left to offer guarantees on behalf of a Socialist government either. I asked the rapporteur to give an answer on behalf of the Left on whether the Left would guarantee that there would be no objection to parties insisting that a full and definitive investigation should also include options and conditions for what we have to do in relation to the daily access of passengers directly via the metropolitan area. That's all I asked for. I didn't ask about the Social Democrats. In fact, I asked the Socialist rapporteur about this, and then I just went on to the next rapporteur, and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429130831	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429130832	I think, then, that I said fairly clearly on behalf of my party that we would like to have examined a destination near the metropolitan area, but that what was important to us was that what usually challenges the voyage to and from Bornholm is the regularity and comfort, and that is because of the waves. Therefore, we will probably always choose the shortest possible sailing time because we will not leave the Bornholmers in that they will have a connection with the rest of the country that is cancelled all the time or where the comfort is so bad that people get sick of it and opt out of the island as tourist or settlement targets. That is what I said in my speech; it cannot be misunderstood.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429130906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429130907	No, I do not think I have misunderstood anything, but the rapporteur did not answer my question. That's why I asked again. The rapporteurs will also be able to document this. I asked for a clear and clear answer as to whether there would be support for an adequate study which would also include it here in the mandate, and I certainly do not think the rapporteur replied clearly and precisely to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429130931	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429130933	Why don't we take care of each other here in Parliament? The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution in an area where we have a settlement where the Danish People's Party is involved, and when the Minister saw that a proposal had been made in this area and that there had not been a wish by the Danish People's Party to have a meeting in the conciliation circle, the Minister of Transport took the initiative to convene the conciliation circle, and at that meeting we sat from all the parties, the conciliation parties, except the Danish People's Party. I would just like us to have some sense here, to take the discussion where the right one belongs, namely in a conciliation circle, and to step out of the conciliation and stand and have resolutions in Parliament, the Danish People's Party is free to do so. In spite of this, I hope that the Danish People's Party stays in the circle and stays in the negotiations on infrastructure so that we can find each other and get a good solution, not only for the Danish People's Party, but also for the people who are going to travel back and forth between Bornholm and the metropolitan area. So in this way I hope that this is something that the Danish People's Party promises in the negotiations we are in right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131047	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131048	In other words, we are lifting everything in these matters, and there are incredibly many issues to be dealt with in relation to the transport negotiations. However, the rapporteur must apologize to me for standing up in this Chamber and talking about goodness. In other words, the Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution which is not binding in any way. We recognise that there is a conciliation, but we come up with a constructive proposal on the basis of a very special situation that has arisen right here on the bridge, where Denmark is suddenly cut off from Denmark. Then, in April, the government will choose to come up with another proposal in which the government advocates the establishment of a study exactly the same. The government is allowed to make proposals which are contrary to an agreement, but one of the conciliation parties must not. I hope that the rapporteur himself can see the comic in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131136	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131138	No, I can't really do that. When you in a government have some areas of conciliation, you always have the opportunity to invite you to negotiations, as we have done. That's what we're discussing right now, and there's an element here, whereas compared to this, and I have to apologize a little, if I get a little rough in the light of the fact that the Danish People's Party is a little pressured in the polls, it's great for the Danish People's Party to stand here and get press coverage that you want to save Bornholm traffic now. I now think it is more appropriate that, when we have a conciliation circle, we sit down there and in the negotiations we have now and find some good solutions that are sustainable for Bornholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131214	I would like the rapporteur to be able to clarify where it is that the Danish People's Party should have violated certain rules of the game, and the rapporteur would be happy to make that clear to me. Because there is no such thing. Surely we are not in the process of tabling a motion for a resolution which has broken through with a conciliation procedure. I can give you plenty of examples of where things have been discussed here in the Danish Parliament, which is also settled, but where parties come with solid, good, sensible kicks. And I do not know whether the rapporteur is going to make it something with spink doktori etc. We do not have as many spin doctors as the Social Democrats and, in particular, not as many as the government has. And that is perhaps the difference between the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131253	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131256	Thank you and thank you for an excellent speech by the rapporteur. Having said that, however, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it does not seem a little strange that where we have the best wishes to establish a direct link between Copenhagen and Rønne, in other words Bornholm, as we did some time ago, it is such a criticism that the parties of the Danish Parliament, or at least some of them, are receiving it, that we are making the proposal at all. In other words, it is in the best sense that the Danish People's Party makes this proposal, so perhaps we should debate the proposal instead of all sorts of ground rules which we might think might have been violated in this case. As far as the rules of the game are concerned, I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that it has often been seen in Christiansborg that there are conciliation circles where a number of parties build something on top, that is, something better than what the conciliation circle has been able to find money for or have been able to agree on, and that the conciliation circle has also been pleased that it has succeeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131358-2	Yes, the latter can certainly be said. When, for example, it doesn't work. If we are talking about the whole circle of police, there will soon be no party here in the Kingdom which has not tabled a motion for a resolution which has had an impact on it, including parties that are in the circle of police conciliation. So it is quite as it should be, and I think it is a little too bad that the Socialists would rather spend their time discussing who came first with a good idea. On 23 February we are presenting this in writing here in the Danish Parliament because we have received a number of enquiries from people at Bornholm and also from a number of citizens who are very interested in other ways of carrying out transport between Rønne and another part of Denmark, and where in this case the transport goes via Sweden. We will then allow ourselves to take these requests seriously, and we will then have to stand here in April and have criticism for that, and I will gladly take that on board. And, of course, if other rapporteurs are interested in this, I would like to give them a copy of some of the requests I have received.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131501	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131501-2	I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that precisely this situation under Corona has shown the vulnerability of the ferry connection that is being made to Bornholm and which, after all, is going very fast, is going in on another country. Because that has meant that it has been very, very difficult to transport itself back and forth and that there have been all kinds of obstacles for the Bornholmers to get back and forth. Does the rapporteur not agree that this is precisely why it is important to discuss this proposal now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131533	We have had a large number of inquiries, and I think other transport rapporteurs have also received this, and it is of course on the basis of the situation that occurred before Christmas, when Denmark was suddenly cut off from Denmark, and there are some in the Folketing who sit and laugh over here in the corners. I take it quite calmly, I would like to say, quite calmly, and that is something we must do ourselves. I just think that as politicians we have a bottom-up task in going in and putting into practice the places where we can see that there is a task that is not being solved in as good a way as one would like it to be done. So, of course, we are happy to take on board the criticism, but I think it might be a little lower.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131615	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131629	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429131658	Thank you very much for the floor, and also thank you to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Peter Skaarup to focus on this very, very important issue. Because I would very much like to start by stating that I very much agree with the proposers that gang crime is a major problem. It is totally unacceptable that there should be residential areas where it is inconvenient to go after the dawn of darkness, and it is totally unacceptable that there have been whole districts for some time, which have been the victims of both gang crime and the conflicts between gangs. And it goes beyond my understanding that in today's Denmark there are gangs shooting in the streets and innocents being hit. Everyone has to be safe on the street. As parents, we should not be nervous when our children go home from school, and as a society we should take a clear stand against the gang criminals. I would therefore also like to acknowledge that the authors of the motion put the problem on the agenda. There is, however, a fundamental problem with the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party. Within the framework of the Constitution, we cannot completely deprive citizens of their right to public support if they do not have a dependent basis. This applies regardless of the crimes committed or suspected by the citizens concerned. We can reduce benefits for selected groups of citizens on the basis of fair and objective criteria, for example. persons convicted in the courts of being foreign fighters or convicted under the aggravated criminal provisions related to gang crime in the criminal code. But completely closing the box is not an option. According to the motion for a resolution, if you are registered as a gang member in the police investigation support database, the right to public benefits must be suspended in the daily PED. However, a number of concerns would arise if information were to be used in the police investigation support database as a basis for depriving the right to public services. This is due, among other things, to: that the Police Investigation Support Database is an internal working tool for the police, including: contain relevant information on persons convicted, accused or suspected of having committed or would commit a criminal offence. As you know, suspicion does not mean that there is, but I would like to remind you that it already has consequences for the right to benefits if you are punished for gang crimes. A quarantine system has been introduced into the benefit system for convicted gang criminals, which means that during a three-year quarantine period, the sentenced person will be able to receive no more than cash benefits and certain other benefits at the level of integration benefit. Furthermore, people convicted of gang crime are excluded from unemployment benefit and certain other benefits during a quarantine period of three years. And if the sentenced person has not been in Denmark for a total of 9 years in the last 10 years, no period of residence for a period of 3 years could be taken into account in relation to the acquisition of the right to educational or cash benefits. There are two key differences between the existing quarantine regime and the motion for a resolution. Firstly, the quarantine regime is subject to the existence of an offence which has been tried in the courts and the final judgment has been delivered. Secondly, the quarantine system does not remove the constitutionally guaranteed dependency base but results in a reduction for a limited period of time. I therefore believe that the existing quarantine system in the system of benefits for gang criminals has the right balance. The benefit is reduced to the lowest possible level, but we do not slam the box in, because it is not possible under the Constitution. It sends out a clear signal that gang crime has consequences, including in the system of benefits. Having said that, I agree that we too often see gang criminals living in a way that does not harmonize with their transfer income, and that is, whatever the level of their benefits. I find it deeply offensive when there are gang members with huge private consumption who at the same time receive public services; then there is something that is not connected. This is why, through the so-called Al Capone cooperation, a number of task forces have been set up in the country's police circles. This is a cooperation between the police, the tax authorities and the relevant municipalities, which handle specific cases where there are gang members who give grounds for suspecting that the person concerned, for example: wrongly receive public benefits. There are also other possibilities in the benefit system. The City of Copenhagen fully activates e.g. citizens with gang relationships. Gang members are faced with a requirement to contribute to their performance. This is a consistent activation of gang criminals receiving public services. The aim is to get them into jobs or education so that they can get away from the criminal racetrack. It is a systematic effort with frequent conversations, activation and sanctions when they are not available or will cooperate. This sends out a clear signal to gang criminals that if the public is to support them, they must do something in return. So to pick up: I share the opinion of the proposers that gang crime is a major problem and that we must make a significant effort to combat it. There is already a quarantine system which means that gang criminals may, after being punished for a period of three years, receive benefits at most at the level of the self-residence and return allowance or transitional allowance. That is to say, the lowest rate in the benefit system. But it is not possible to deprive gang members of the right to public services entirely within the framework of the Constitution. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132312	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132313	Thank you and thank you for your kind words about the intention of this motion for a resolution. That's what they say, so far, so good. But if you do not support the proposal and do not want to do anything about it, then we have a problem, government and Mr. Minister. Because I think it is very insulting for the right-of-law awareness among the Danes to see that by 2020 half of the gang members received public services, while at the same time improving subversive activities in Danish society, some would say that they have actually signed up completely out of society by joining a gang and behind blackmail, drug crime, threats and everything you are now doing as a member of a gang. So that's why I'd like to know if the government will just stand by here? After all, the only thing described here today are some existing schemes that we can see are not working, because by 2020, as I have said, half of the gang members received public services while they had their second profession. So, government, can we not get some solutions here that correct the problem we are facing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132424	First of all, I would like to repeat my introductory words that we are very, very much in agreement on the intention behind this proposal. I personally, as well as the government as a whole, am disgusted, I think, as much as Mr. Peter Skaarup and fortunately also very broad parts of the Parliamentary Assembly that is my impression of the behaviour that many gang members have shown over the past many years and are still exhibiting. Having said that, we believe, first of all, that at least in the area of benefits we have some very good tools. We can probably be even better at using them, but we have some very good tools, at least within the framework permitted by the Constitution. In addition, and I am convinced that Mr. Peter Skaarup together with among others. My own party's legal rapporteur and the Minister for Justice are concerned with the question: how can we also continue to tighten up sanctions and penalties in the area of criminal law? To people who are in gang crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132530	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132530-2	Well, we're definitely preoccupied with that, and we fight a hard fight, sometimes together, to fix some of these things... most recently in a police deal. Having said that, however, we must note that it is a battle against windmills if the Minister for Employment says: we must do no more than we do here and than we do today. Therefore, I would like to ask again: is it really true that the government does not have any initiatives at all on the way to ensuring that we stop this traffic, where half of all gang members receive public services that they received in 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132608	One of the things that we do, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that we have had a debate on this subject in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. have also entered into agreements with the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Conservatives, namely agreement on more simple and stricter sanctions, strengthened control of cheating and fewer mispayments. information on beneficiaries of benefits with a view to a more automated sanction. And that is, of course, one of the things we are awaiting the outcome of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132646	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the Minister is just getting ready for the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132705	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for the very thorough cleaning of the speaker's desk, that is excellent. The gang criminals are very creative, and that is why, as politicians and as an authority, we also need to be creative when it comes to cutting them down as much as we possibly can, and we have very few limitations on that creativity. We have that cooperation, among other things. with the Danish People's Party with the gang packages that have been carried out, which have resulted in more and more gang members sitting in prisons and being punished for much longer. At the latest, just before Christmas, we have made the police deal, where we are restructuring the police to become even sharper to push the gangs and keep an eye on them. We've put up packages for increased surveillance of these types. We've made an agreement on driving crazy, which is about taking the cars from these types, because these are the people we're talking about. So the creativity is very great, because they will do everything they can to cheat whether it is with a public service or it is with financial crime, robbery or drug dealing or whatever it is. We are well aware of that. That is why it is an effort that is all about using the whole range of tools. There is, however, the simple framework of the Constitution. Normally we discuss the international conventions with the Danish People's Party. We can have a disagreement there. But it is actually the case that the Danish People's Party refers to the Constitution. Here we have the challenge that the creativity shown by the Danish People's Party with this proposal comes up against the Constitution. At any rate, we have little difficulty simply throwing aside the Constitution and saying that there is a full stop to public services. It is then just an addition to what the Minister for Employment has also mentioned. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132850	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429132855	Sir. Jeppe Bruus says that what we want in the Danish People's Party cannot be done because it bumps into the constitution. I guess what I'm asking for is that the argument here is that you don't have anything to live for as a gang member if you don't get this public service. But I'd just like to say that, and I think so, sir. Jeppe Bruus is aware that most gang members have a lot to live for, for they earn money through drug trafficking, by threatening other people, by blackmail and the like. This means that the income of most gang members is quite high, and they probably also have a very high level of private consumption. You can afford relatively large cars. If you don't own it, you lease really expensive cars. We all know about that. That is why I am just trying to return to the fact that it is not forbidden for the public to look at whether a person has a very high level of private consumption and therefore has sufficient funds available for the day and the way along that path, so that you do not even have to pay public services that way to the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133005-2	No, it is certainly not forbidden to the public. I would like to say that this is a duty. That is why I am also glad that in the police agreement we actually had a whole section on social fraud, which is also going to knock on some of these types of social fraud. So it is absolutely a duty and we must step up our efforts, including against social fraud, and that is why I was pleased with the joint agreement we made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133027	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133028	Well, that's good. However, let me just repeat: if we now agree that it is a task for the municipalities to ensure that public services are not paid out to people who have a very high level of private consumption and therefore have enough for the day and the way, then surely we also agree that it must end with half of the gang members receiving public services and that we are doing something about it, so that the citizens no longer have to look at paying a high tax to some gang members who do not bother Danish society getting high benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133107	I was also surprised by that number. That is why it is, of course, quite fair to bring it forward here. I think that is too high a figure. I think it works completely on the moon, considering that we know what these gang members are doing as their livelihoods. I have not come across any municipalities that think it is pleasant to have to sit and pay benefits to these people. But it is also a start to help the municipalities a little. That is why I am pleased with the agreement we made in the field of police, which is precisely about providing reinforced tools in relation to social fraud. We will work on this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133138	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133153	Thank you. After all, organised crime by gang members and disrespect for other people violate our fundamental values. Their ruthless behavior creates insecurity in the surrounding society, and we must and will not accept that. That's why we also made a gang package back in 2017, where we set a foot against gang crime with 35 different initiatives. We introduced, among other things: More severe penalties and also introduced a residence ban. That is why the Left also supports the intentions of the proposal put forward here by the Danish People's Party, in other words that gang members who directly oppose the interests of society should meet with tough and cash consequences, and not least that their crime creates a huge problem for all of us: our society, the police, the criminal services and the judicial system. Nor will we accept in the Left that criminals go around committing crime while they receive one public service after another. That is why we have also been involved in introducing a three-year quarantine scheme in the benefit section for convicted gang criminals, which the Minister for Employment has explained very well. However, the Left would like to discuss how we can tighten the rules against gang criminals in different ways. We are therefore looking forward to being able to clarify in committee what measures we can take, and this is both about benefits, and it is about the legal system in such a way that we also comply with applicable legislation, our constitution, etc. So we look forward to discussing in committee and in committee how we can take a hard look at the gang criminals we do not want in any way to have peace and opportunity, nor should they have public services if they are not entitled to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133410	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133430	It often happens when we discuss gang crime that there is a competition for who can say the most ugly about the gangs and put the most distance to them. I rarely think that makes any sense, because there seems to be little difference between how much we abhor the gangs and their crime. I am just as hardcore in fighting the gangs as I am hardcore in defending legal certainty and equality before the law. Because we may be really tired of these types in the gangs, but there are criminals in many editions there are gang members; there are bank gangs with associated hangarounds that have robbed society of values; there are other types of serious criminals, murderers, rapists, not to say the nasty paedophiles. But if we are to go in here and make an assessment of when they may receive public services, I think it is to mix some things together. So, at the job centres or in the cashiers, we should put a special assessment system on people who are suspected to be members of gangs, or should we not stick to the basic principle of the rule of law on equality before the law. Therefore, the SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133558	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133600	I was astonished that the rapporteur's speech ended so quickly, but thank you to Mr Seligman. Karsten Høngge in any case. Well, I'm just having a hard time totally capturing the approach to what SF has here, because it seems a little bit like this is really just some kind of competition to be as bad as possible by the gangs and to appear best or something. But it might also be that there are Danes and politicians in here, including in the Danish People's Party, who say that it is simply outrageous that as a member of a gang where you are behind all the accidents that Mr. Karsten Hønge is well aware that you are behind it, while at the same time receiving benefits from the tax payers. So at the same time taking benefits out of the pool that should otherwise go to disadvantaged people here in Denmark. And those people aren't disadvantaged people, they're criminals against all the rules of society and make a lot of money through drug crime and stuff like that. Well, then, sir. Karsten Hønge did not see that there is actually a problem here that offends many people and that we should do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133711	Yeah, well, I couldn't possibly tell the Danish People's Party or Mr. Peter Skaarup's such sincere views and opinions about this, because it is so I am quite sure that what drives Mr. Skaarup. Peter Skaarup and the Danish People's Party are their sincere interest, in relation to the fact that here there is a • we can sometimes see completely incomprehensible features of public services to some while at the same time they are criminals. I fully recognise and respect that position. The reason I'm talking about the competition to talk hard about the gangs is more that it's what I think the young people call a disclaimer. It's such a modern expression they've found. Well, the reason we end up being against is not that I have anything nice to say about the gangs in any way, because I am as hardcore in my attitudes towards gangs as I think Mr. Peter Skaarup is, but I just don't think you should have a double system here with the possibility of double punishment, no matter how much we despise the criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133807	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133808	That is where we disagree, in other words, in relation to the latter. Because we believe in the Danish People's Party that if you have to send some signals to the gangs that they should not do what they do, and if we want to send some signals to the community that they should not go into the gangs, then we have to spell out the signals must be clear and clear. And they are not very clear and clear if, on the one hand, you provide social benefits while at the same time you know that the people in question are into something really bad and commit crime. - Sir... Karsten Hønge doesn't see it's crazy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133842	Yes, I can do that, and that is why I also said that I recognise and respect the starting point for Peter Skaarup and the Danish People's Party in this. Because it is deeply outraged when we see that gang criminals receive public services at the same time. The more this is about whether to separate the gang members, which we despise in every way possible. But there are a lot of people we don't like; there are a lot of boring types, paedophiles, murderers and others. And if you can find ways of getting more sharper in the actual assessment in the municipalities to separate these things, then we will be positive about it, but not in the way it stands here in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133920	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Here you go to Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429133944	Thank you very much. It is appalling when someone resigns from society, turns his back on society, and gang criminals are certainly some of them. Other criminals are, too. It could be bikers, it could be murderers, it could be people who abuse children etc. The easiest and nicest thing in this case, when we are talking about gang crime, might actually be simply to ban gangs or, as the proposal here suggests, to take the right to benefits from them. I might want to, but we can't just do that. As other colleagues have pointed out, there is, of course, the basic law to always take into account. And I will certainly be watching over that too. To ban gangs or to deprive them of the right to benefits does not, of course, remove the root of the problem. I think we need to do much more basic work there, and I know that my colleagues from the Radical Left are doing so in the social and legal fields. Well, you go in and look at kids and young people and the whole food chain into the gang environment. The Radical Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134106	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134108	I am glad that the Radical Left awards the Constitution. We do the same in the Danish People's Party. Of course we must abide by the Constitution. But having said that, there is certainly no contradiction in our checking whether a person has such a high level of private consumption next door, for example. to lease cars or buy large cars at the same time as they receive social benefits, because then there is something that is not connected. Does the Radical Left not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134137	I understand that in some cases there may be a mismatch between what kind of income you have and what kind of consumption you have. It has often been seen in relation to gang criminals. Of course. And no, where I mention the Constitution, is in connection with the proposal to completely deprive them of the right to benefits. That is how I read the proposal, that is what it is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134207	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134208	So I have to ask: what can the Radical Left then propose? After all, the road is not adorned with initiatives by the Radicals to combat gang crime. In fact, it is often the case that you have to be dragged into the Radical Left, if at all possible. So what does the Radical Left have of proposals to fight the gangs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134235-2	I'm really a little sorry that Mr. Simpson... Peter Skaarup paints such a picture of the Radical Left, for what I would like was very clear with Mr. Peter Skaarup and everyone else are our contempt for people who at all involve themselves in crime, but also in gang crimes. Some of the initiatives that have been taken by the radicals, among others. In the City of Copenhagen, what the minister mentioned is this full-time activation for gang criminals, so that they always do something for the benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134315	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, I see in the Chamber, is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr President. Mads Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134348	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for a very exciting proposal, a proposal which points to something that I think we all find very difficult to understand: that half of all registered gang criminals in Denmark get some form of public service. By the way, this is not a completely new phenomenon. As far back as the 1990s bicker war, a large proportion of organized criminals were at the same time on some form of public support. I am also aware that, when they can do so, it may be related to the fact that they do not quite get the tax administration what they earn next to them. But, of course, it is deeply wrong to be able to commit seriously organised crime at the risk of hitting innocent people, while at the same time getting something of the finest that our community in Denmark can offer, namely financial aid in the form of public support. That is, of course, reprehensible. I myself come from Køge, who unfortunately for long periods has been the home of some of the most criminal organized gangs in Denmark. As late as the night before yesterday, there was again trouble in one of our residential areas. We simply need to continue with a tough, strict and fair line against the gang criminals we have in Denmark. The number of people is not really very large, but the damage they do is enormous. In the municipalities and in the police districts, they know who it is, so let's see how we can make it even harder to commit gang crime in this beautiful kingdom. We fully support the intention of the proposal, but at the same time we are aware of this with the Constitution. After all, we are not willing to compromise on that, but I promise you, sir. Peter Skaarup, that if Mr. Peter Skaarup brings it to the Legal Affairs Committee, I'm on the heels of Mr. Skaarup. Peter Skaarup. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134528	Thank you. No brief comments have been made. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429134627	After all, I was waiting for several rapporteurs from the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizens' Party and such ones to come up here and back up the proposal wholeheartedly, but it will then be another day. In any case, I can say that we have put forward this proposal and I am pleased with the treatment here today and also the opinions of the parties because an answer we have received in the Danish Parliament shows that barely 50 per cent. the members of the gang have received some form of public service for at least 1 month in 2020. And many of them probably have much more income than usual in the Danish population. We therefore find it very difficult to see that it should be in harmony with being a hard-boiled gang member, that you also receive social benefits from the public sector and from those taxpayers who already pay a relatively high tax in Denmark for a very many people. So when gang members, despite the fact that they have actually resigned from the established society by committing this organized crime, receive benefits from the very same society, it is of course very strange from the point of view of the Danish People's Party. We have said no ourselves, and so it should be said that we should not receive social benefits. It is absolutely insane to have social benefits in this situation. After all, these gang members cost society a great deal of money because of other pressures in the form of insecurity, in terms of the cost of police action, prosecution, courts, prison services, social services, ambulances, hospitals, psychologists, insurance costs, which make it very, very expensive for society that we have gang members at all. And the fact that you have to have a transfer income from the public sector seems quite grotesque. So we in the Danish People's Party want a tough approach to the gangs in all sorts of areas, and here is at least one of many of the initiatives we have presented here today that we take all the services paid by the public from the gang members. They themselves have resigned from society, and they cannot expect anything the other way. Then, of course, during the committee procedure, we will examine the assessments that have come from the various parties. And let me take them in order. The government says something's gonna happen and this isn't so good and something like that. I am a little worried that nothing will happen, because you do not present anything today that you want to tighten up on these things, so that we do not have 50 per cent. by gang members receiving public services. Many of the municipalities that pose the problem here are social democratic-led municipalities, where the mayor or the mayor, or whatever title he or she has, is a social democrat. This applies to Copenhagen, it applies to Aarhus, it applies to Odense, yes, where it is almost not true in the larger cities that someone has to do something about the municipal elections this year. Having said that, however, the situation is simply that the government is social democratic and many of the mayors are social democrats, and very many places are provided for gang members. You have to do something about that. And I hope that this debate will, after all, succeed in getting a little bit out of the way, in the direction that the government will also do more about it. In any case, we will keep the government and the Social Democrats up on both here in the Danish Parliament, but also in the municipalities that something is happening. Then I am glad that the Left and Conservatives supported the proposal in broad terms and will work positively to ensure that we get these things right so that social benefits are not given to gang members. I am not so happy that the SF believes that it is some kind of post-war war, more than it really is a But, of course, I just misunderstood, sir. Karsten Hønges such a very charming and cozy way when he gives the rapporteur speeches it is possible. But at least I call on the SF to join the team, so that we can take action on these things. The Radical Left had a very fine rapporteur speech, and if what is being said is a believer, then you are actually prepared to do something about the gangs playing kispus with society now and then, if not all the time. So we hope that somehow we can work together on this proposal, so that the Radicals can also be involved in stopping this. Then I think I have been all around, and I thank you for your good treatment in this Chamber. I hope that we can do something about matters so that in future gang members will not be able to receive large public services from taxpayers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135135	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135151	The debate is open, and we shall first give the floor to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135214	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Left for tabling a motion for a resolution on an experiment with a four-year open-air town scheme. Like the proposers, I have been introduced to this exciting proposal on the Free Village Scheme in cooperation between the Rural Council, the Association of Danske Småøer and the University of Copenhagen. The idea is to give a number of village and island communities the freedom to develop their own projects and demonstrate that development can be created locally. There is therefore no doubt that I am in favour of the ideas contained in the proposal. We are in a place where we need concrete experience of what we can do to get the neighbourhood back. The government wants a more coherent Denmark with a balance between the country and the city, and this is the agenda that I have been put in charge of working with when setting up the new Ministry of Home and Home Affairs. We need a strong capital, well-functioning provincial towns, strong local communities and living rural areas. If we are to have a rural neighbourhood and to put an end to the centralisation that has taken place over the last few decades, we need to focus on development opportunities in the villages and on the small islands. As part of the Agreement on the Finance Act 2021 concluded between the Government and the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, it was decided to promote employment, business development, service, living conditions, settlement as well as local cultural and leisure activities in the Danish villages. A total of EUR 25 million has been allocated in 2021. kr. to increase the funding of the rural pool to support projects that contribute to good living conditions for the citizens of the villages by maintaining local jobs, leisure facilities, etc. This is a step in the right direction, but it is undoubtedly much more necessary to ensure proximity and to support the lives of small towns and villages, including exploring the possibilities of pilot schemes with open villages. The SF has made a similar proposal on the open village pilot scheme, with the difference that the SF proposes that the experimental projects should have a certain non-profit-making purpose and benefit the broad majority, and that it should not destroy natural values or harm the environment. Hotels, homes, summer houses are therefore not included. It is positive that there are more of us who see the potential of an experimental system, and it is obvious that we are thinking together the two motions for resolutions. The proposals are very general, and I therefore believe that there is a need to work further and to go into depth with them. They are not ready to be implemented directly in a legislative proposal as they are now. Among other things, there is a lack of information. a clarification of the scope of such an experiment. Who's going to run the experimental system? What role should the local community play? And what role should the municipalities play? What legislation is to be given freedom from? How should the process of experimenting and selecting villages and islands be combined? And above all, how do we ensure that the experimental scheme does not damage our natural values and the environment? In addition, there is no clarification as to how any costs of an experimental scheme should be financed. The resolution contains a great many good elements and intentions. An experimental scheme offers both the potential for the villages selected, but also a wider potential if the experiments can show us what can be done to reverse development. We need to work in depth with the motion for a resolution in order to establish a proper governance model, as well as legislation in which there is clarity about what we have freedom from. That is why the government is also in favour of the proposal, and we would like to invite the interested parties to further discuss the proposal for a specific free village scheme with a view to achieving a model that offers new opportunities for development for local communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135602	Thank you. I have no brief comments to make, so we thank the Minister. Then we can move on to the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur. It's sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135629	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the Left for taking the initiative of the Joint Council of Rural Regions and the Association of Danish Small Islands. I'm sorry I'm out of breath, but I've been running fast. I cannot help but welcome the fact that the Left, who was the head of the municipal reform, has at last found that they probably just went a little too far with centralisation. I come from a small municipality myself, at least at the time, with 5,000 inhabitants. Although we were not rich, we had a fine small, well-run municipality with good services for citizens and proximity to the decisions that were now to be taken. That proximity disappeared with the municipal reform. So today the smaller communities, local communities around and the islands on long stretches are left to themselves, or at least that's how they feel, and then it can be difficult to get the whole local desires to fit into those square boxes that you've made at the local town hall or in here at Christiansborg. In the Social Democratic Party, we have begun to reverse that trend by releasing seven municipalities on the basis of a more detailed agreement with the government. We can see some good music in transferring that principle to the small communities around and to the islands. That is why we are actually in favour of the proposal's intentions on the open-air town scheme. However, we think it is necessary to look at the specific content, the funding and the management model, and, as we see it, this is something that can be resolved. So we cannot support this proposal as it stands, but I would suggest that we make a report in committee so that the government has a basis for further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135827	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Juel-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135830	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. This is not the first time I have heard the rapporteur and perhaps more representatives of the rapporteur's party say that all the misfortunes in the world are due to municipal reform. If it is responsible for so much bad, will the Social Democratic Party intend to change the municipal reform? Because why not remove something that doesn't work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135858	I could take the quick answer and say no. We don't really intend to change that. I would like to admit that there are other things, other than the municipal reform, which are responsible for some things that do not work as they should. But it just seems like one of those big things that you can see out there, and I'm glad the Left has realized that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135918	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135919	Now, in fact, this is the second time that the Social Democratic Party has had the opportunity to change the municipal reform, and it is still equally unhappy with it. I cannot understand why, if you have the mandates, if you have the influence to change something, why you do not do it if you are so unhappy with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135939	I now think I should like to talk about what opportunities we have by giving small islands and communities around the world the opportunity to create open-air village schemes. I find that much more interesting. I think we can see some music in that and maybe also get a broad consensus in the Folketing that we can achieve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429135955	Thank you. Then I have no further brief comments to make. We thank the rapporteur and remember to blow off. Then we are ready for the next rapporteur. It is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429140021	During the almost 10 years I have been in the Folketing and in the Rural and Islands Committee, I have been privileged to see a whole lot of beautiful village communities and a whole lot of beautiful islands, and I am always greeted by a huge hospitality and a huge help that is not seen at all like in cities. I just have to say that villagers and islanders are not lazy. Oh, come on. They're getting involved. They're totally engaging in their communities. They put a lot of volunteer hours in their village or in that their island should be a nice place. When they so enthusiastically tell me about their projects and their visions and all their thoughts, they usually end up saying a little sadly: But we can't do that, because we have been denied that. Here are a few examples: I have a special preference for the island of Tunø. That's how the island of Tunø is a car-free island. They're driving around with tractors, and then they've got down at the harbor right when you get there, some public toilets. Then they make some tractor trips with a car after a tractor around the island. There you get to the far side of the island, and there you hold so little picnic. There they think that when they were doing these tours, it could be great if you could just set up a mobile toilet that could stand there just for three months. But they were denied that, for it was shameful for nature. At Orø I visited a couple who were extremely involved in this with that they had some local products that they sold. They lived in such a beautiful binding house, which was actually quite large. It was a few hundred yards from the sea. And then it was, they thought, that it could be really nice if they could have such a café in the summer where you could sit, just right with a couple of café tables out where they could sell some local products and people could sit there and enjoy a cup of coffee and a cake while they looked out at the sea 200 m away. There it was, they said to me: Try to look at the sea there 200 m away. You can understand that it is immensely shameful for nature here if there are two café tables where people can sit and enjoy their cup of coffee and a cake. So they had been denied that. On Fur I was on the beach where there was such a cliff that went down, and on that cliff there was a stairway. But there was no railing on that stairway, because a railing had been refused because it would be too shameful for nature. The fact that people then take it on their heads and injure themselves was less significant in terms of nature. Imagine. Imagine if we could put an end to all the foolishness I've witnessed out there. We must look after nature, says the politicians here from the stone bridge in Copenhagen. But there are no people living in nature who want to desecrate nature. The people I meet in the village communities and on the islands love the nature in which they live, and they will actually do nothing but take initiatives that make it more wonderful to enjoy the nature in which they already live. We're not talking about building skyscrapers at the edge of the water. We are talking about quite small things that actually make us take into account the people who live in nature so that they can enjoy it. If this proposal from the Left is adopted, I have a hell of a lot of things I can pull out of the drawer where I can go to the village communities and the islands and say: this is it. Now is the time to apply for all your good ideas for projects. I would almost say that I think we should actually start in the small islands, both because there are huge needs there, but also because the small islands are some nicely defined communities that really provide a basis for this with experimental schemes. But no matter what, we in the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429140454	Thank you. And there are no brief comments. Then we are ready for the next rapporteur, and this is the SF rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429140515	Thank you and thank you to the Left for presenting this motion for a resolution. The SF has made a similar proposal to open villages which, after all, differ slightly from those of the Left, and I do not know whether it is spring shells or reopening fever that makes the Left and the SF now make almost identical proposals. But it is really uplifting, because I believe that together we have an interest in strengthening the development of our rural areas. It is also very good that the Minister has said here today that we need to look at this and invite us to discuss how we can arrange it. That means we'll get on with it, and it's really good. For us, it is important for the villages to have freer hands experimenting with measures that can contribute to increased settlement and community, just like the free municipalities that the government has also appointed. We may think that we have fenced in our own proposal on open villages a little bit better than the Left has in its proposal here, because we have said that it is at least a clear premise that we must not do damage to nature and the environment. And then we are concerned that the projects that then also come, like benefits, what can be said, the general good or the general population on an island or in a village. And there we do not consider such things as cottage building and hotels and the like to be in that category. Because it may be that building a new and beautiful hotel on a road or a beach, or where it can be, or a lot of holiday homes right off the coast, benefits the local economy. But the thing about strengthening the community in the village or on an island and strengthening the creative solutions, I guess I have a little harder to see being within that framework. When we want to strengthen the villages and islands, it is because we think that these should be projects on which we can have a broad consensus and which can also create these creative solutions. And in the arrangement that we have put forward, we are primarily committed to strengthening development and innovation and contributing to such a more coherent development across Denmark and the local community. I don't know about that, for example. are villages that would like to create green villages, energy communities with their own wind turbines and power supplies or local heat supplies. It may also be that you will, perhaps, draw experimental communities, for example. by letting families stay there, who want to downsize and live in Tinyhouses, but cannot be allowed, because there is a requirement that there should be a certain number of millimeters of insulation in houses in Denmark, and then you might be able to derogate from it. If you succeed in such a thing, it can give more children, it will give more children, and in the end it can be some of the things that can mean that the local school will be better equipped against school closures. And this is the kind of development that we would like to contribute to launching and giving participation in relation to the area in which we live. So we think it is very good about the idea of free villages, and we believe that we can meet with the Left and with other parties about a good regime that also ensures elements of what we want to set in motion, namely that the villages have a little more influence on what is going to happen in them. And then I hope that we will have a catalogue of good things that we may be able to take with us and can be implemented in a way that will allow more areas to do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429140855	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429140858	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. There is no doubt that we have proposals which could almost go hand in hand. I will come back to that later and not talk about that now. However, I have just one question: does the rapporteur not think that creating jobs and thus increasing settlements in a village is beneficial to the general good?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429140917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429140918	It may be possible to do so, but it is not certain that it will. It is always nice that some business can flourish and that some jobs can be created, but if the Left thinks of hotels on the beach, etc., then I can become more doubtful whether it is something that benefits the general good. It is, of course, primarily a commercial company, and it is not certain that agreement will be reached out there that it is a good proposal. After all, there is no leg in placing a new hotel or a new summer house area, but there can of course be some legs in it by not being allowed to do so by the current legislation. But what I really want to do with the free villages is try to see if we can develop some creative solutions. I am very inspired by what is happening on Læsø, which I visited right after the summer holiday last year. Here you make all sorts of combination solutions, because of course you can't do things on a large scale, and I thought there had come a lot of innovation out of that, among other things. in the public task-solving as well. That's the kind of thing I'd like to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141030	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141031	But we just have to remember that if we also want people to move into our rural areas and into the small villages, then there must be something for them to do, there must be ways to make money and provide for themselves, otherwise we will just have an increase in commuting, the children will stay away, etc., and then we will have to close schools and other things. If we are to have whole, sustainable societies, then there must also be opportunities to have some form of employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141058-2	I do not, in fact, disagree with that, and I believe that we should also look at it in a sympathetic manner. I just think that the aim that we have with the proposal on open villages is, first and foremost, to try to see whether we can get some new, exciting solutions out of jointly deciding something, launching something, creating some growth, some life and innovation, more than it is about some building matador perhaps coming with a bag of money and saying: Now I want to do something here on the beachside. Of course, it may be nice for some, but it is more the creative task solution that is central to us with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141136	Then it's Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141137	Shouldn't we talk about what was realistic instead? A builder with a large bag of money will never break through on an island or in a small village community. For there are no people living on an island or in a village community who have an interest in their territory being completely destroyed by some massive construction. So where on earth does the rapporteur have it except in his own head?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141204-2	Well, I think we've just been trying to think a little bit out of the box compared to what kind of development we want to promote ourselves. And that's great if Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker thinks that way. Because then it won't be a issue at all. Then we can just as well exclude that part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141220	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141221	In other words, from my 10 years of experience of traveling to all the rural and island regions of the Kingdom of Denmark, I have not found a single place where they have an interest in destroying their own area, as the rapporteur describes it, and I can then hear from rapporteurs that the rapporteur does not do so either from a knowledge, but just from a fear. And when we talk politics, we have to talk realisticly. And what the rapporteur has to say here is not realistic at all. But what would be fantastic was to give these small farmers in rural areas and islands a fantastic opportunity, as I have mentioned here in my rapporteur's speech, that there could be a café with two café tables on a small island. So that's the scale we're talking about. What is the rapporteur's position against this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141309	We don't really mind making a café, but I don't think it's just going to be in the beach protection line. So, in any case, you can make a café today. That is not, what can be said, a creative and innovative solution. This is something I think one can do within the framework one has today, and that is why I am thinking at least that is what I hope to get out of an open-air village scheme to find new solutions to some of the challenges that one has in transport or in the green, in settlements, in the attraction of new citizens, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141345	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kathrine Oldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141403	Thank you, President. And thank you very much for the proposal to the rapporteur of the Left. This is an excellent proposal, as the Joint Council of Rural Regions has wanted for years. Basically and in principle, in the Radical Left, we agree that freedom outside must be the guiding principle, including when we talk villages. Where such a municipal geek as I just start to get into a bit of a stalemate is when I start thinking about the practical coining of such a proposal here. And that is also why I would like to start by saying that we really do want to be in the report we are looking at in committee right now. Because how are we gonna put this in here so it's gonna make sense? When we work with free municipalities, we do, in principle, that we designate a geographical area and at the same time also a legal area. These are the two things we combine when we make a free municipality attempt; the school area in the municipality of Holbæk, for example. When you talk about open-air villages, you also have to start by perhaps defining what kind of legal areas they are. Because is it a village that wants to make an extra school? Is this a village that wants to do a small business? Where are we? Is it planning law, corporate law, school? Where are we anyway? Perhaps that could be overcome, for example. to say this is per. I am sorry about that, and I am sorry about the case-by-case case. And in this way, you can sit and judge what makes sense here. Are those two chairs on the beach or a railing? Where's the de minimis for this? And I would also like to say that in the Radical Left we have been enjoying ourselves with the 'I have at least read the evaluation of the law of plans, which has been agreed on, as the rapporteur's party is also part of, from 2016, and which in no way paints a picture of a Denmark in decay. All the concerns that arose when the rapporteur's party and other parties made that agreement back in 2016, it has to be said that they have been hammered well and thoroughly into the ground. More specifically, when you look at how the law of plans has actually been implemented, you can say that it is perhaps still being carried out or, at least, administered equally restrictively, at least from my point of view. For as soon as you go in and stop the small local microbrewery in e.g.. To make a café or to hang up a sign or whatever it may be in a protected area is to stop the small, free initiative, and I think it will be below a small limit for me. The problem is that when you sit and administer such a law, it is really taste judgment that you sit and implement, and it is important that we send out a signal from the political community at least: how should you give priority? What are the priorities here? And there I would also say that when you have to sit and look at the law of plans again, I would be extremely happy to just send it to the rapporteur's party if it were so that we could get a little bit loosened up again or opened up further to how that law is actually managed. Because I also get all those e-mails as rural and municipal rapporteurs that we cannot do this again and again. And it is from handrails and café tables to everything else completely trivial, where you really cannot see from the coast some building that has been incorporated into the landscape, or whatever. So there is for me to see a large number of things, that is, it is like the law of plans and the process that is running. In relation to this proposal: I think, as I said, that it is too loose and too unconcrete as it stands here. I thank the rapporteur for having taken it up because it gives us the opportunity to draw up that report so that perhaps we can get on with tampering with what model we can then make so that villages can apply for it here. So those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141807	Thank you. I have no record of short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429141831	Thank you. I am not the rapporteur, but I am the rapporteur's reserve, for our rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen cannot be present. I have promised to state the following: the Enhedslisten very much agrees with the intention to create more development, engagement and proximity in the villages and in the small islands. I do not think anyone in this Chamber disagrees with that intention. The proposal is a continuation of the free community experiment, but now especially for villages and small islands. And as a starting point, it makes sense to look at the barriers and challenges faced by the villages and the small islands, and then get them put into practice by a free village scheme. But just as we in the Enhedslisten were sceptical about the free community attempt, so we also have a scepticism about the proposed scheme. As I have said, we share the intention in the proposal, we have yet to get the frame work that several rapporteurs have also talked about in the context of a free village scheme. We do not want a system that simply gives everything free, and in particular nothing that can have permanent negative consequences for nature and climate and animal and plant life. We would say, however, that we have seen examples of derogations being made which have not been favourable to either the free natural life or the free animal and plant life. So it is not because there are no examples of interventions that are not appropriate. However, we would very much like to take part in a discussion on the report and we would very much like to make some concrete contributions as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429142015	Thank you. We have no brief comments to make. We thank the rapporteur. Then we are ready to move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429142033	Thank you. I would like to thank the Left very much for presenting this motion for a resolution. The idea of decentralising larger parts of our administration is the idea and recognition of the value and value of local knowledge. It is not only to the benefit of the citizens around the Danish villages and islands, when decisions are taken in close democracy, it can also provide better use of resources. After many years of centralisation, it is time that we also dare to stop and ask whether there is still something that is too little or too much. The good coordination and one-way approach, which is won by increased centralisation, must not be at the expense of security, proximity, transparency and local knowledge. I myself have been on the town council of the municipality of Høje-Taastrup for almost 16 years, and I must say that despite various buds of free arrangements and free municipality attempts, it has gone the wrong way. Local government is under very great pressure and centralisation has taken precedence. Of course, it also has that in our villages and in our island communities. That is why the Conservative People's Party can give full support to the proposal, and I am also very pleased that there has been such broad support in this Chamber for it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429142200	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur. That's it, Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429142219	Denmark is a lovely country. When you drive out into the country, out of the noise of the big cities, out to the silence, out to the bird whistle, that's where the lovely Danish villages are. It is out there where the darkness is very close at night, so the stars are clear; where you shop at the small local grocery store; where you have a chat with the neighbor over the hedge; where there is high to the sky. Actually, I have a picture hanging in my office in here. I don't remember who painted it, but that wasn't what was so important to me when I chose it. It's a picture of the most beautiful landscape. It is with a farmhouse, and there are fields, and you can see that there is sunshine. You just get really happy inside when you look at it. The only thing I usually say is that I'm actually missing... is a dungeon that weighs, and then Poul Reichhardt, who comes walking and sings... Are you dus with the birds of the sky? Then it would have been completely in place. But it reminds me every day of what we must be careful of and what is so important that we also pass on to future generations. In new citizens, we want decentralisation. We want growth and prosperity for all regions of lovely Denmark. And frankly, I don't think that in the individual villages you are much better at getting the good ideas to secure the future of the village than the politicians in here at Christiansborg are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429142351	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance or the Christian Democrats, so we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429142419	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by thanking both the Minister and my colleagues in the rapporteur for their very fine and very warm speeches. Thank you very much, not on your own behalf, but on behalf of the rural and island communities and villages. I take note of the fact that there are some words that go back: freedom, proximity, social community. That's what this is about. That is what we must fertilize together. Our rural areas are challenged, and it is backed up, among other things. of figures from Statistics Denmark showing that the outer municipalities have lost 10% overall. of the jobs in 2018, measured in relation to 2008. On the other hand, the city municipalities were affected by the financial crisis much more mildly, and in the cities few 8% have been experienced. more jobs during the same period. And with what we are going through, which has been going on since March, this resolution is needed. In these days, in the coming time, we are opening up more and more of the country, and everything is going well, and the wheels are going to turn again and speed up, but in our rural areas we know that there is just not going that fast. In the Left, we want to unleash freedom. We want to help give our rural areas and our villages and our islands the opportunity to take even more responsibility for their own development and to find out precisely what will enable sustainable development, both in the short and long term, to be achieved when it comes to growth, prosperity and settlement. But, of course, there must be room for diversity, so this proposal is on the back of the old free municipalities and the attempt by the government to give up to seven municipalities the freedom to find good solutions to challenges that stand in the way of good life. I have no doubt that many Danes have had a long time to think about it and think carefully about how to want to live afterwards and how to make work and family life go better hand in hand. These are the families that we need to give our villages, our islands and our rural areas a better opportunity to attract. Because with this proposal, as a new citizen in a village, in a rural area or on an island, you will pioneer for others, but also in your own life. I have listened to the fact that you want to take this down positively, and as I said, I am very pleased about that. But, of course, I also know that my colleague from the SF has a proposal that is in many ways similar to this proposal. I now hope that, when both of the proposals have been dealt with here in the Things, we will take the time needed to put together the proposals for a joint report and then get started. Finally, I would like to raise the flag of those who, I believe, should play a crucial role in the forward-looking work that puts the joint SF-Lefter ship in the lake. It is our partners such as the Rural Council, the Association of Danish Small Islands, which I believe is important to include, but also knowledge institutions such as the University of Copenhagen and the SDU and, of course, the Centre for Regional and Tourism Research. And in this crossroads between all these very committed and knowledgeable people, there can be very good rural policy that can be the key to opening up our rural areas to increased settlements and thus also create increased local growth. But last and not least, we make Denmark richer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429142824	Thank you. No brief comments have been made. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429142906	The debate is open. First we give the floor to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429142911	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution on the mandatory use of digital resident voting in the general housing sector. Basically, I think it is a sympathetic resolution because it aims to strengthen the resident democracy in the general housing sector with digital votes. I find it difficult to disagree with the need to strengthen the democracy of the general housing sector, especially when you are elected by the people. It is an integral part of the DNA of the sector and it is something that must be protected. Therefore, it is very good if the residents influence their department through participation locally, and one must of course have the best possible conditions for it. However, it is already possible to use digital tools to support resident democracy, among other things. also digital votes. However, as the rules are today, it is not mandatory to use digital tools, but is something that requires the approval of residents, as digital tools also cost something to use, which must be paid by the departments and therefore also ultimately affects the rent. I do not think that we should immediately adopt something which burden housing organisations and which leads to higher rents when they have the opportunity to adopt it in each organisation. I think the motion for a resolution and its intention are sympathetic, but it also envisages far-reaching changes in smaller housing organisations, which is why I cannot support the proposal on this basis. Instead, I would suggest that my ministry initiate a study which reveals the expected consequences of the proposal, particularly in terms of rent, in order to clarify whether it strengthens the resident democracy enough to compensate for any disadvantages. When that study is available, it will be submitted to the Committee on the Interior and Housing and will form the basis for a political discussion. Of course, I will be fully open to that discussion on the basis of what such a study shows.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143117	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143119	Thank you for your kind approach. I liked that one. I look forward to the financial analysis being sent to the committee and hopefully we will have a discussion on it. I think the Minister may be surprised at how much demand there can be. I have been approached by citizens who have told me that this is a good idea and that it works. We also know from some departments that this has been a good idea. So I hope that the Minister will be positive when we have uncovered the economic consequences which cannot be so enormous if it is put into a whole sector. There are many standard solutions. So thank you for your kind approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143205	Thank you to the rapporteur for the praise. I would also like to say that I do so without prejudice in the sense that what concerns me is the small organisations. Today a large housing organisation has the opportunity to choose these votes, but if you have a small organisation with perhaps 500 leases and which administers itself, it can be a burden on the administration that is measured in relation to a relatively small organisation. I think, of course, that we should be aware of how this will affect the organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143242	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143243	That's fair enough. Therefore it will probably also be the case that it is the big ones who somehow set the standard and develop it, and then the little ones can always buy it, so that they do not have to be involved in the development of it. There's a lot of options. We can look at that when we get that study from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143305	Well, I will do that and, as I said, without any biased attitude. It must be what strengthens democracy as much as possible. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143315	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we start with the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Mrs. Tanja Larsson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143329	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes to make it compulsory for general housing departments to allow residents to vote digitally in local elections. In social democracy, we are very much in favour of a strong resident democracy in general housing. The resident democracy is one of the great strengths of our general housing in Denmark. For all democratic assemblies, whether they are the Folketing or the governing bodies of a general housing department, the legitimacy of the democratic assembly depends on the percentage of votes, and if the percentage of votes is low, the legitimacy of the assembly is also low. And vice versa, if the vote is high, there is also greater legitimacy. That is why, as a starting point, we pay tribute to initiatives that can increase the percentage of votes in residential elections in general housing units. As stated in the motion for a resolution, general housing departments already have the possibility of introducing digital resident voting if there is agreement on this at a departmental meeting. The proposers also highlight a number of examples of general housing departments which have successfully introduced digital votes. However, we are opposed to making it compulsory for general housing departments to introduce digital solutions in residential elections, as this may involve high costs for smaller general services and may even lead to increases in rent. Instead, we support the proposal by the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing to launch a study which reveals the rent consequences of the resolution and, in addition, whether the resolution can strengthen the resident democracy. Social democracy does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143535	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur present in the Chamber is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143558	Thank you. You feel like a big party when you get up so early. Thank you to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen to table this motion for a resolution. I and the Radical Left support the intention to strengthen the resident democracy, but for me, democracy is not only done with the vote, including in actual attendance and the discussion, discussion and debate that may take place at the turn of the day. Nowadays, it is already possible for each department board to decide whether to allow digital voting, and that is how we think it should continue to be, so that it is up to each department board whether to introduce digital votes. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143659	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143723	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for a fine proposal. We Conservatives support it. We think it would be a strengthening of the democracy of the Member States. As several rapporteurs have already said, associations can ask for it themselves today, but we would really like that to be the starting point. It might be added that an exception may be possible if what the Minister mentioned is a resident association which, for one reason or another, does not have the capacity. But as a starting point, this is something we support. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143759	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143815	Thank you. I can say that we are fundamentally positive about the proposal from the Danish People's Party. I would also like to say that I actually share some of the considerations that came from the Minister about just looking at this and seeing: how much is it going to cost? Are there any small organisations that should be excluded? Are there any existing systems? That's also what I hear from the Danish People's Party actually lies in this. So the intention to ensure increased resident democracy is, of course, a tribute to New Citizens. That is why we are positive about those things and we look forward to further work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143845	Thank you. Then we go a little back in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429143900	Thanks for the flexibility. In the Enhedslisten we are very much in favour of the residents' democracy in general housing, and it is therefore very important that at the departmental meetings held there is a good attendance and a good debate and that decisions are taken which are important. That's one of them. the budget, which has an impact on the level of rent, and there is usually a great deal of interest in this. In relation to the way in which we vote, I would say that there is already the possibility of voting clockwise. It can be both written and it can be digital. And it is then up to the department and department board at the department meeting to decide how to decide big decisions. I think there are many places in Denmark and in Association Denmark where, after corona, you will come up with a review of how to hold meetings and how to make decisions. That is such a general view. I do not think that the Folketing should dictate that it should be in a certain way in the general sector and that it should be compulsory. I live in a section with 20 homes, where we usually have some really good department meetings and where there meet such approx. 60% Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report, which he has drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Budgets. It would be a little strange if it were the case that it had been said in advance that it should be a decision that was taken by participating electronically and not attending a meeting. I also have the concern that if you do it exclusively electronically, you can sit at home and just vote, and it is therefore important that you have a reasonable level of planned maintenance in each housing unit and save up for it. And if you just have to vote electronically, I think there'll be a lot of people sitting at home voting no to a rent increase... that's what I'd think was quite natural to do. After all, it is important that we have the debate at a section meeting and that we have the opportunity to discuss the fact that it is actually fair to save up for a planned window replacement if that is what we need to do. I think that will be harder to get through if it is the case that you have to vote exclusively electronically. So we cannot support the proposal as it is, but we are very much in favour of a well-functioning resident democracy in the general sector, and we are aware of the fact that it is already a good choice to put things to the clock vote. We think it is quite fine to develop on the other side of Corona how we make decisions together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429144153	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we'll jump backwards again in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429144216	Thank you for the floor and also thank you for the flexibility from here. I am today a substitute for the otherwise acting rapporteur in this area, but the SF's words must also be included today. Firstly, I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution, which is actually about requiring the government to make it compulsory for the general housing departments by 2021 to allow residents to vote digitally in residential elections. The Danish People's Party wants to make it compulsory for housing associations to have the opportunity to vote digitally when, for example, departmental meetings are held in the general housing departments, where a number of important decisions are taken in resident voting. Among other things, it can be done. These include the approval of the department's operating budget for the coming year, the election of the members of the departmental board, the approval of major renovation projects and the position on incoming proposals from residents. It is really good to have this opportunity, especially for young children's parents and citizens with a disability, which the proposers also mention. We can only support that part in the SF. However, the problem will be the administrative part, which may ultimately mean that the residents will have the bill for the administration. We cannot therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution as it stands. However, we would very much like to discuss it further in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429144340	Thank you. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then all the rapporteurs who wanted to speak have had it, apart from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429144408	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution simply stems from a request from a citizen who lives in a non-profit housing association who had wondered about the low attendance and then asked me if it was not possible to do it digitally, and I really thought that was a good idea to have it examined. That is why we tabled this motion for a resolution and I hope that during the day the citizen will also see the debate. Because that was actually very positive, and I would like to thank the Minister for his willingness to initiate a study of the economic circumstances and how this vote can be carried out in the departments. I would like to thank the Minister for that, and then I have actually achieved more than I had hoped for, as a rule, motions for resolutions from the opposition are poured down the board, so I would like to thank him for that. I look forward very much to that study and now I hope that it will not take 5 or 10 years, but that it is relatively fast that we get started as long as the Minister is Minister. I would also like to thank Conservatives for their unqualified support. I was glad to hear and, of course, thank you for the other fine words and support for the intention of the other parties, and I am actually looking forward to having the study, and then we can talk about it in committee, and hopefully we will have more participation in the local democracy, because that is quite crucial. There is one small point that we have not mentioned in the debate, and that is that it is fine for residents to show up physically, but that sometimes it may be a danger, because very few people appear, and we have seen in some housing associations that it has been used to implement very unpopular decisions, for example. to abolish Christmas. There were some small Hizb ut-Tahrir organisations who suddenly sat on a departmental board and trumped it, and a digital vote would prevent such a thing, because there were a lot more people who then got to know about it. I have then also been on a study trip in Switzerland five years ago, where I am among others. was allowed to participate in a digital vote at the university where I was enrolled. There were some students who were dissatisfied with a decision taken by a student organisation, and none of us had heard of it until the voting principle was adopted. It was the case that 200 students could require a vote and then it was carried out. And it was implemented digitally, and it turned out that the students were against what the small board had decided, and that's just why I say that when you have these digital voting options, you involve more than just the usual ones. It is always good to spread the knowledge of votes, and that is certainly my experience, and I think that is also the experience that has been gained in the department boards where the digital has been used. But I look forward to the investigation, Minister, and then we take it from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429144728	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429144752	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429144802	Thank you. It is a peculiarity for Denmark that we have an active association life, where thousands of citizens make festivals, cultural events, sporting events, leisure activities and much more and feel without getting a penny for it. That effort deserves recognition, and in this respect the government fully shares the desire for the application of the society to be simplified, so that it is easy to ask for authority permissions when an event is to be organised as an association. If you look at the proposal from the Left that we are considering now, the proposers want the government to set in motion a digital solution so that the associations can only send one single application for events such as city parties, festivals and the like. As a minimum, the solution must support that applicants can provide information for all necessary permits in one place from which the digital solution will distribute the information to the respective authorities' systems. Applicants and authorities shall also be able to see the status of each authorisation marked by the competent authority either manually or automatically. The government also notes that under the local government regime, i.e. at KOMBIT, an IT solution called ARENA has already been developed which aims precisely to streamline these processes, i.e. when applying for permission to organise an event in a municipality. However, the development of ARENA has been suspended. In addition, it is the government's opinion that the concrete wishes of the resolution for the minimum functionality of the digital solution will make essential and costly demands on the IT project as well as on the development of the necessary interface integrations in the public authorities, which, through the solution, will be able to display and share data and process applications. In addition, the motion for a resolution states that certain existing application processes are currently not IT-supported, which must be regarded as a prerequisite for linking the application process to a new central digital solution. For these reasons, we cannot support the motion for a resolution, but we would very much like to look at obtaining more detailed information on the local IT system ARENA and, on that basis, continue the dialogue with the parties of the Folketing on how we can ensure that the conditions of association can be debureaucratic and simplified most appropriately, also on the basis of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145020	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145025	Thank you to the Minister for his reply in the first place. I am surprised that the Minister does not mention state governments at all, because in the current ARENA system, the challenge is that these are precisely local solutions, and that is to say, on the basis of how the municipality can be made more efficient. And the minister didn't have a single comment on the appropriateness of involving the state agencies, i.e. the Danish Food Authority, the Customs Authority, and what they are all called, which are, of course, part of these events.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145105	I am sorry if I have not mentioned it, but what I am saying in my speech is that some of the application processes today are not IT-supported, and that of course also applies to the state side. And it is clear that if you are going to have some solution, it has to be all around, and so I am also interested that we can make a solution that makes sense and that is easy, both in the way that applicants get an easy application process, but it must of course also be the case that it is rational on the other side of the system, i.e. that it is effective, and that it does not just take a long time, because you have to go all sorts of places around Slotsholmen and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145137	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145138	Does the Minister not agree that this will lead to an increase in the efficiency of the state authorities, which must go beyond an application, because it will all be put together in one place and it will be very easy to understand what is to be answered and within what deadlines, and that, therefore, we really have the opportunity here both to accommodate the volunteers and to make the work easier for them, but at the same time, in fact, to make some efficiency in the state governments that are going to have to deal with as authorities in these situations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145209	Well, I agree that if you can make this system, so it works, it will be effective for the authorities as well. But the challenge is, of course, if you have already existing IT systems that are difficult to connect, and there can be something in relation to cutting surfaces, and there can be things you do manually. And that's what I really want unveiled. Because I fully agree that the examples we have seen, I even think that they are from South Jutland, where there have been problems with it, are not a fair way to process, up to a city party or similar.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145235	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. And we are going to start with the rapporteur's series. Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145258	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor, and thank you for the authors of the motion for a resolution on the creation of a single digital solution for the association's event applications. That is a really, really sympathetic proposal. Every day in Association Denmark, volunteers work hard to make very good arrangements that bring together local communities, create life and generate profits for local activities. It is, of course, crucial for Danish democracy and the Danish local communities that it can continue to take place, and it is of course not satisfactory when, for example, it is not satisfactory. in this fine booklet about party rental, published by some enthusiasts in the area, it is actually very, very complicated to arrange a party or a shared day in a community because you have to go through up to 32 different bodies. That is why this proposal is also very sympathetic, and in the Social Democratic Party we are very concerned about how we can make it easier for Association Denmark. We have also, together with the support parties or the parties to the agreements • Radicale Left, SF and Enhedslisten, just highlighted this in our contract paper. At the moment, we are looking at the GDPR rules, inspections and tax issues, because some of those who are struggling, huge knots are the ones who believe that it is worth the work as a volunteer. And it has to be worth the work. I do not think there are any volunteers who want to spend a lot of time on everything here bureaucracy. It is our great wish that we put an end to all this bureaucracy, and among other things. The Ministry of Culture will this summer hold a conference with associations and organisations where the major themes of bureaucratic challenges will be reversed. Together with them, together with the actors, we must of course look at what we have to do and what it is that works. If we do not then support the proposal as it stands today, it is for the simple reason that no specific funding has been pointed out right now or indeed there, but it is not a financing that we see as realistic. Then there is also the whole layer of what is actually what the Minister said in relation to COMBIT with ARENA. What are the challenges that have been encountered there, where are the brakes, and what is it that is needed, for the intentions, among other things. behind it can unfold? So right now we do not believe in an overall digital solution with the demands proposed by the proposers. We simply do not believe that the gain that comes to the other end is in line. But we are really looking forward to the subsequent debate in this area and, as I was able to hear the Minister say, he is also very interested in looking at how we can move forward from here. That is in the interests of all of us, so thank you once again to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145540	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First of all, it is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145543	Thank you. What really annoys me about this is that I think that we on the Left are actually making a huge effort to make this pot ready to use just as quickly as possible. That is why I find it a pity that the Socialists do not dare to be a little more visionary. It is okay to hold conferences, meetings, discussions, etc., but there are a lot of fire-souls out there and need help now. Does the Socialist rapporteur not think that this might indicate that it would actually be easier for volunteers, but also for the authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145630	Well, as it says here, it's clear that in the best of all worlds, we made this solution tomorrow. It would be desirable if we could. That is just not what seems to be realistic, given that we can see that KOMBIT's own initiative is stranded and that there are some cut surfaces that are not yet fully thought out. It looks as if it will be so costly, so that right now we certainly do not have the resources to do so. But the intentions are fully embraced, because we really think it is sympathetic. And we all know it. I mean, you really shouldn't have listened in class if you hadn't heard about these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145709	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145710	I know things can sometimes be difficult. Perhaps that is why we have to try to find solutions from time to time. That is what we have actually been elected for, and I actually think we have a joint task across the parties here in trying to find a solution, and that is why we are actually making a bid for it. Why is it that the Socialist rapporteur does not think it possible to actually link all entities and authorities on one platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145745	Well, I'm sure that's possible. It is just a matter of time and resources, because anything can be done if you have the means and you have the time. As the proposal stands here, no financing has been pointed out or is there, but the funding that has been allocated will not solve this problem, since, as far as I have read, that money will be used for something else. So we cannot accept the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145815	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145816	It was, among other things. Because I wanted to mention to the rapporteur that we have, of course, but now I understand that the rapporteur has remembered that this is actually reflected in the motion for a resolution. But I'm getting a little curious as to why these funds cannot be used in this area. Because I don't see any challenges in that. And I would like to know from the rapporteur because, like the minister, the rapporteur says that it is very expensive • whether the rapporteur already has a clear idea of what the total funding will amount to, since it can be used as an argument? I ask in more detail because all this sympathetic stuff, and we want to look at it, and thank the proposers, the volunteers out there can't use anything, if it ends up with the Social Democrats, perhaps because it isn't their own proposal, not backing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429145913	When I talk about costs, I also think that the rapporteur from the Left knows very well what it costs when we need to have different digital platforms to talk. We have other examples of this in Danish society, among others. In the field of health care. It's very, very expensive. We have 98 municipalities in Denmark. They have different systems. Some have bought something, and some have bought something else. What we were gonna do with this grab solution was get it overnight to talk to all these different systems plus controls, etc. It goes without saying that if we are to do so, it will also cost the municipalities a great deal of money, because they must also invest in this. So I can't see that this is something we can just take care of with a snap. Back to the question of resources: as far as I remember, and as far as the rapporteur is concerned, I must apologise for not remembering it quite precisely, they are, in fact, already in the forthcoming economic agreement between the municipalities and the state for coinciding certain things. So I'm afraid they're not enough for this very big chrome-plated project.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150019	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150020	Now the rapporteur is starting to talk about snatching solutions. There is no mention of that anywhere in the proposal. What we are proposing is that the government should initiate the establishment of a digital solution. So we're suggesting that the government gets to work on this. Then we are fully aware that it will of course take some time before all those systems know how to play their part. But is this really about the proposal coming from the opposition, and now we have to stall so that the minister can hold an event and say that it is now the government that is taking the initiative? Otherwise, I simply do not understand the rapporteur's rejection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150103	No, it's not about that. It is about making responsible decisions that we know we can vouch for and also having the economy in place. And we're not there yet. We don't know what this is gonna cost. And in any case, it will assume that we know it before we can say that we are doing it, we are deciding this. It would be irresponsible to say yes without knowing what it amounts to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150124	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150126	Thank you. This is to follow up on Eva Kjær's question. We're not saying this is easy, which is why we have to get started. The GDPR mentioned the rapporteur himself is a huge challenge, and so is money laundering. This affects our association life very much every day beyond the corona. So we need to get started. Will the rapporteur be involved in pushing the government so that we can get this work started?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150157	I am sure that after today I will certainly listen to everyone's interest in finding an arrangement. I also hope, of course, that we will be able to arrive at a joint report pointing forward and looking towards a solution in the future as to what it might look like. But I actually think we all have the same interest in this room.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150215	Sir. Stén Knuth? No, there is no follow-up brief remark. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150216	Thank you. When you have tried to be both the chairman and treasurer of various associations, you know how much trouble it is, and that is why it is also wonderful when there are more people from society who call us and say: it is a fantastic proposal that has come up now; when can it come into force? That is the question I am bringing from the associations to the rapporteur. Is this something that we can sort out now in this session, or what does it look like from the rapporteur's chair?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150246	I am now looking forward, first of all, to the committee procedure and to the fact that we are discussing this with each other in committee, because I could imagine that there were some issues that pointed in some directions, at least for my own part. In any case, I am really curious and would like to learn more about what it is, for example. is that prevents KOMBIT from getting over the steppes. What really slows them down? So we need to learn a lot more about what is really going on and what lies in tasks that need to be solved. So that's one of the things we can start by getting to grips with and getting smarter. It might be desirable if it were some of the things we might be able to include in a report, so that we would like to learn a little more about what it looks like, among other things. Technically speaking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150321	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150322	Thank you. Excuse me, but now the rapporteur sounds almost like the system, you might say, with all due respect for the system. 'Cause that's kind of what you come across when you come around and say, "We're gonna get started on this town party, we're gonna get started on this show, we're gonna get started on these activities, we're gonna get started on this croquet game." Then suddenly you have to turn to eight places instead of somewhere, and then someone has to look at it, and then the summer has passed before you get started with the activities. It's bad. It's very bad. That is why I hope that we can get a quick answer to the questions that the rapporteur has so that we can get to work on this. However, is the rapporteur prepared for this to be done as soon as possible and preferably before the day of the constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150402	It was fresh. In the best of all worlds the answer would be yes, but I certainly dare not promise. Surely we can all agree that we must have looked at something and find a solution that is workable, that is sustainable and that we can find funding for. Because it is also about being responsible in the decisions we take and that they can be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150421	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150446	Thank you. This motion for a resolution seems to me quite obvious to address a challenge that we should all agree on, of course. I think many of us have been involved in arranging markets and the like and experienced the trouble of having to contact the municipality, the police and several others, and there should be an opportunity to do so far, much easier for all the associations who want to stack different events on their feet. At the same time, this should also be able to reduce bureaucracy and simplify the working procedures of the public bodies responsible for approval, etc. In the specific proposal it is fairly detailed how the system should work and I do not know whether it is necessarily the most obvious way of doing so. I would like us to agree simply to say squarely that there has to be one entrance to the associations when they have to apply for these things. What is then behind and what comes out, I was just about to say, I really don't care about it, but I think we should actually insist that this work is started and that those who have to do it, of course, involve the relevant parties in finding out how it is going to work. In this way, I would just like to give my full support to resolving the problem and to create, as the proposal says, the good digital user journey. I know that in this coronatid we all need some travel, and if it could be digital, let it be if it can only be physical. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150613	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150636	Yes, thank you for that, President. Association life is one of Denmark's strongest characteristics, and throughout the country there are small and large associations that in reality bind our country together. The associations and the many voluntary forces are bridged by geographical, economic and social divisions. Especially in local communities, associations are of great importance. They help to define and characterise local areas; they help to make them unique. Of course, in the SF, we believe that local association life is essential to link the country across boundaries, and we actually welcome this proposal, which should make it easier for associations to be allowed to organise events. Indeed, it may be quite demanding for associations that are often driven primarily by local voluntary forces to seek all the necessary permissions from the many different authorities in order to organise events that they would like. By making the application process more simple and easy, we ensure that the spirit of initiative and the drive that characterises the Danish association life are not lost in lengthy paperwork. However, there are also some challenges to the proposal as it stands now. On the one hand, we need to make sure that we can find sustainable funding for the measure so that we do not risk scandals, as we have seen before, when we have tried to assemble digital portals. The use of digital solutions by municipalities is very different and therefore there is simply not a quick fix here. We must ensure that a digital solution such as this meets all the relevant requirements, both in terms of data security, so as to ensure that citizens and all other parties' data are properly processed and to ensure that good intentions are not misused to undermine the community. In SF we are excited about volunteering, social life and local initiatives. We support the fact that local forces can have better conditions and we are actually looking forward to working on the proposal so that we can ensure that it is done in a sound and secure manner. We hope that the Minister will continue to work on qualifying a so-called digital solution so that we can have a look at what the possibilities are, what the disadvantages are and, above all, clarify the economic aspect. However, as the proposal stands at the moment, we cannot vote for it, but we hope and would very much like to call for us to continue working on it and also for the Minister to take the initiative on that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150901	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429150928	If one now suffers from such a fundamental optimism of the future, one thinks that things are getting better, simpler and easier, and, especially when combined with all the available technology, knowledge, etc., it should be even easier. Then we are still in a situation in these years when many things for ordinary people are becoming more and more difficult. In the work that in the old days what should we say was a voluntary work of association, which one did because one wanted to have something to do with people, wanted to make an effort for the children and for those who were having a little difficulty, etc., one is today subjected to a huge bureaucratic administrative order. Many things have become incredibly difficult, and those GDPR rules and laundering rules have contributed to completely absurd stories no matter how good the starting point has been and how good the intentions have been. It is not just from associations, but also from day-care institutions etc. etc. It is clear that, in the view of Enhedslisten, it is a completely bottom-up task to do something about this. That is why, of course, we are also satisfied that the understanding paper says that we want to identify and eliminate bureaucratic burdens on voluntary association life, i.e. to identify and eliminate bureaucratic burdens on voluntary association life. That's the deal we have with the government. That is the agreement we have with the SF and the Radical Left. As well as I am sure that they are serious about this, we are also serious about this. That is why our starting point is that we think this is a good proposal. We think it is a very good proposal that, if you are to arrange something, there is one entry point. There is one place to approach, and there is not a lot else to turn to. There's a place to go. It's a great deal of full support for it. Then I know that the devil is in the detail. That is why there is something called committee work in the Folketing, so that we do not just adopt things at first reading. There is also a second reading and, above all, there is a period between the first and second readings where we can ask some questions and get deeper into it. We will. Our dream is, of course, based on the understanding paper that we can agree on some kind of report in the committee work, which reconciles how we move forward in a way that we can all see ourselves in. That's what we want with this. But I would also like to add that you should not see it as a jelly pot. We may be able to live with the fact that this proposal will not be adopted on this side of the summer holiday, because a report will be produced which will set some things in motion. But if those things are not set in motion or if those things are not implemented, I assume that the proposers are wise enough to resubmit the proposal when we arrive in October. Then they can, for example. ask us whether we want to take part in the proposal. For it is clear that our position will be different in six months' time than it is today, because we are in fact serious about identifying and disposing of bureaucratic burdens on voluntary association life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151325	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151329	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech. Søren Søndergaard. But Mr. Søren Søndergaard and his party now have the opportunity to step on that speeder, so we'll get started right now. The rapporteur is also aware of the fact that we are killing the lives of the associations and volunteers out there with GDPR and money laundering and the markets to search 20-25 places. It is not just a single place in South Jutland that the Minister mentioned. This is everywhere in Denmark. The cohesion that exists out there, we're about to kill. There's a need for Enhedslisten to join the Left in this case and put some speeder on. We're trying to see if we can save the patient. But on the way, we're also in danger of the patient dying. Then Mr. Mr Søren Søndergaard and Mr Enhedslisten do not share in stepping on the accelerator somewhat harder than what I hear the rapporteur say here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151428	No, we do not want to step harder on the accelerator than what I said here. Let's be real, shall we? I'm going to write approx. May 1st today. When will it be necessary to draw up a report in committee so that it can be put to the vote in this Assembly? In three weeks? This means that within three weeks we will have to examine the issues that are; we will have to hold a possible conference where we will hear what experience there is in municipalities, etc.; we have to write a report and have adopted this proposal. We do not believe that will happen, at least not seriously. I'm sure sir. Stén Knuth himself remembers or knows how it is with our GDPR legislation, i.e. how complicated it is and how long it takes. That is why I can give an undertaking to step on the accelerator but not to vote in favour of this proposal before the summer break at the beginning of June.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151538	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151541	Thank you. It is very rare for the Enhedslisten and the Left to come together in different proposals, but it suggests that you are on your way here. So a big thank you for that. When you've tried to be both chairman and treasurer and board member of various associations, football clubs, etc., we know that it's wrong when you say that we're gonna have to fix this market for Saturday and make some money for the club fund. Well, we couldn't do that, because we're just gonna have to make eight different applications. That's why, like inspired by everyday problems and challenges, you come up with this proposal. That is why I am very pleased with the signals that the rapporteur is also sending from the Enhedslisten, and I fully agree that this must be chewed through thoroughly. I also sense from the rapporteur that it is now a question, so to speak, of getting our noses all the way down, so that we can solve the practical problems that we have on the boards and in the working groups around us. So that is also the point of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, so that now we have to solve these problems, which they simply have in everyday life out there in the associations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151647	Completely. As stated in the paper of understanding: map and dismantle bureaucratic burdens on voluntary association life. A hundred percent. That's exactly what we're gonna do. We can then criticise the fact that no initiatives have already been taken and that nothing has happened in the course of the year and a half that the government has been there. Well, I guess I have a certain understanding that there have been many other tasks. I have to admit that. But this is not a blank cheque for us, and that is why I also chose to make it so relatively clear: the report we hope we can make is not an opportunity to open the jar. That's for us to get on with it. Now for the Left and Enhedslisten thing. After all, we have also jointly asked a number of questions about all this money laundering, and this is also a proposal that the Left has put forward before us. This is of great importance to the clubs. And there's the greed that the banks show. We are very, very interested in continuing to work with the Left on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151758	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151759	Thank you. This is at least what one can call a hint with a rod for the minister. The accelerator must be joked in the sense that something must now be done about it and now it must be prepared. I just want to say thank you for me. By the way, I can take that to my hinterland. It's been a nice day to be a Leftman in here, and I also hope it's been a good day to be a Unity Lister in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151823	Well, it was just a modest attempt to emphasise the point that we agreed in the understanding paper on the four parties together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151835	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151836	Thank you. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for his support and, in particular, thank you for the commitment to in fact in some form stand hold and burst that we will now see some results in this area. Then we can always discuss the details. But my question to the rapporteur is this: does the rapporteur not agree that we would have a much easier committee if the Minister were to take the initiative, quite soon, to meet the rapporteurs to discuss with the rapporteurs, what a report text might look like? For then we could quickly get it done and talk about the content.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151915	Yes, but I just have to say that I do not want to get involved in the ministers' calendars. I do not know what the Minister has on the drawing board for the next month, so how and how it is actually going to take place, I do not want to interfere at all. It's like this proposal is there. It is also there all summer, and I am well aware of this, that it will lapse when the new session starts, which is until October. And it is clear that I foresee that the authors of the motion are committed to re-submitting it if there is nothing at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151958	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429151959	I can assure the rapporteur that we will, if necessary, be, but I do not hear at all the comments that have already been made by various rapporteurs today. And a report counts, as well as if we were to vote on the motion for a resolution, so I am quite confident about that in relation to the further progress, that is to say that we are going to start a process here before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152023	I think it is wise for us all to share that, so I think we should make every effort to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152027	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152030	I would also just like to join the queue of left-wing people who actually say thank you to the Enhedslisten. It may be that Mr. Søren Søndergaard must mark the calendar today, on 29 April, where I must at least be honest and say: I am glad that Enhedslisten supports this proposal so far that we must have a joint report so that we can move on. So thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152054	Well, it actually happens often that we get praise from the Left. I just want to make that clear. Well, I understand that the Left is not so happy about it, but it actually happens sometimes. So we live with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152109	Thank you, and thank you, in all the commendable words, to the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten. There are no more brief comments. Thank you. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152138	Thank you, President. I shall be brief: we think this is a fantastic proposal from the Left. It was also put in the lake in 2018, when we ourselves sat in government together. As Mrs. Anni Matthiesen says, "Digital service in the world class" is ready, that is to say, ready to be passed on. This is an initiative that will make life for our association life much easier. So we also think it's a shame the government doesn't take this fine play on. It seems, as Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen says, more like political teasing than common sense, but at least we Conservatives support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152215	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we are through all the rapporteurs, apart from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152237	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for all the nice words about the proposal; it is wonderful to see the willingness and attitude to take serious action now to ease the lives of the volunteers out there. I think it was DF's rapporteur who said that let us now resolve the problem and the SF's rapporteur, who says that we are looking forward to further work, also thanks for the positive commitment there. I think it's nice to feel all around that you agree with the intention of this proposal and that you can see the prospects of making one entry, one application that can then go to the relevant authorities. So thank you so much. I am, of course, a little disappointed by the reluctance of the Socialist rapporteur and the Minister, because the volunteers out there cannot use all the fine words that it is sympathetic that we would like to see it be as easy for volunteers as possible if action is not taken. And here, too, I thought it was a pity not to have the Minister's attention on how we can effectively streamline and create a situation where it will be much easier for all actors in this area to deal with the many applications that need to be made. One of the well-known examples is the Pentecostal market in Gram, and there is a list of 26 applications to be sent to the various authorities, and some even report even more. However, Minister, thank you for being reasonably positive about it, to want to look at ARENA and the work that KOMBIT has done so far. And it's well known to us who work with it that when you haven't upgraded this ARENA system, where are some horrible abbreviations that you always find on various things? Well, it's because it's the individual municipality that's supposed to be pouncing out and paying for something, but where it's gonna be a very local solution, and that's not gonna embrace all the 26 on the Pentecostal market in Gram's list, or how many it's gonna be, and that's why it's so important that we take a national responsibility, that is, to get all the players involved. But the Minister was a little positive, and I can only call on the Minister to set aside time in the calendar, and that does not have to be so long-term, because there were some very clear views from all the parties present, but where we look each other in the eye and say that we will find a solution. Then we can discuss the details and whether there are some sticks in the resolution that are not all included, but so we shake hands and look into each other's eyes when it comes to working on this solution. So I would urge the Minister to call us as soon as possible for a little chat. For what is also important is, of course, that we might have a working group in which the relevant actors could be included. Because we know that you sit in the municipalities and need to update on your applications, we know that the police are updating on their digital solutions, we know that all the different actors are watching how they can digitise in exactly their field. So it would be very good if the Minister could take the initiative to perhaps get a working group so that those players could already start talking and meet across the board. 'Cause I think that sir... Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten is not impatient enough in this field despite his very clear speech today. I believe that we are in a situation where it is extremely important that we also show volunteers that we are serious. As several rapporteurs have said, they are hard hit with, among other things, one of them. GDPR rules and laundering rules, but they are also severely affected by the Corona restrictions and restrictions that have been imposed. So with this initiative we would also be able to help create some optimism out there and give some motivation and some job satisfaction back to the volunteers. So I hope that the Minister will go along with this and that the Minister will pick this up and in fact make our committee work and the further progress, as the SF's rapporteur also mentioned, much easier for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152731	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152735	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the final comment from the platform. I understand that the rapporteur of the Left is also pleased that among other things. Enhedslisten and SF support a joint report. So I just wanted to hear: is it because it was the Social Democrat Party that started by saying that you want a joint report, that the rapporteur does not mention that the Social Democratic Party also wants a joint report?
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152804	The reason why I did not mention the Social Democratic Party was that the rapporteur also found the opportunity to say that we would vote against this proposal, and I did not think that was very accommodating. I mean, we have the feeling in here that we are discussing the substance of the matter, that we are looking at what is the intention, what is the purpose and whether we can back each other up in it. However, the Socialist rapporteur was so busy saying that it was not thought that funding had been given that it was then corrected afterwards and that at least it was not possible to vote in favour of this proposal. And I just think it was a very negative attitude, particularly in relation to all the other parties' rapporteurs, who actually went very constructively into this and even expressed a pleasure to work on it now in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152854	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152856	I should like to repeat what I said, in other words that I would very, very much like to embrace the intentions of the proposal. I would also very much like to repeat that we hope to be able to produce a joint report, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur to sign to hear that I have said so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429152911-2	I am very pleased that the rapporteur says that. But I would have been even happier if the rapporteur had expressed what the content of the report should be. Because we must not just make a report, but we must also produce a report which will take us forward and which will take up what is in this resolution so that it can be translated into reality. And that was what the rapporteur failed to say, in stark contrast to, for example, the report. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who clearly referred to this as being in the government's understanding paper. It would have been quite a different matter if the Socialist rapporteur had similarly said: this, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, is part of the government's basis, so of course we will seize this by kissing and will see to it that it is translated into reality. See, that would have been another talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429153000	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210429153013	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday 3 May 2021 at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
