ParlaMint-DK_20211117130003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Culture and the Church (Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen): Bill no. L 86 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Copyright. Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 87 (Proposal for a law amending the law on temporary measures in the field of children's education and folk high school and for the free public awareness activities to prevent and remedy covid-19. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 88 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal Property Tax, the Property Assessment Act, the Boat of Death Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act. Bill No. L 89 (Proposal for a law amending the tobacco tax law, the law on various excise duties, the VAT law and various other laws and repealing the law amending the law on different excise duties and the law on collection. Transport Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 90 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the approval and inspection of vehicles. Bill No. L 91 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the approval and inspection of vehicles. Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 39 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a new renewable energy strategy so that electricity prices will be cheaper in the future, the Danes will have more money available for themselves, security of supply will be strengthened and green conversion accelerated). Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Karsten Hønge (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Susanne Zimmer (FG), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Jens Rohde (KD) and Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA): Motion for a resolution No. B 40 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on extending father's/co-mother's earmarked share (citizen's proposal)). Marcus Knuth (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 41 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the transfer of files concerning current applicants for Danish citizenship to the Committee of Insights) and motion for a resolution No. B 42 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to exclude persons considered by PET to be a threat to the security of the country from obtaining Danish citizenship forever). Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 43 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on giving more free elections and more birthrights). Sikandar Siddique (FG) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 44 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the protection of climate refugees). Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Peter Skaarup (DF), Karsten Hønge (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Susanne Zimmer (FG), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Jens Rohde (KD) and Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA): Motion for a resolution No. B 45 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cessation of the return of Syrian refugees to dangerous and insecure conditions (citizen's proposal)). Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Christoffer Aagaard Melson (V), Marcus Knuth (KF) and Pernille Vermund (NB): Hasteforskning nr. F 13 (About the asylum centre Sandvad) (Does the Minister understand the concern and insecurity of the community in Sandvad caused by the relocation of foreigners, some of whom have allegedly been convicted of serious crime, such as murder and sensuality crimes, to the local asylum centre close to the playground and bus stop, and will the Minister make himself available for a direct and open dialogue with local citizens before the new residents of the asylum centre move in?)). Marcus Knuth (KF) and Niels Flemming Hansen (KF): Request no. F 14 (on citizenship proposal).(Will the Minister explain why the Minister considers it reasonable and appropriate that the Folketing should be denied access to relevant information about a bill in the Minister's area concerning the granting of Danish citizenship and how it cannot be contrary to the intention of the Constitution?)). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20211117130255	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117130322	I would point out that any votes on proposals for adoption will be postponed until tomorrow, Thursday. First of all, it is the explanatory statement, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117130344	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Minister for putting forward this urgent question. The government was so reckless this weekend, in the late part of the municipal election campaign, to come up with a proposal that was about security. It was so much aimed at security in the big cities where young parties were held, and I think it was about selling alcohol to young people at certain times of the day. But if the government is serious about security, then it is also about other things. It is also about how to affect a local community if you move citizens from the state to the local community in question, thereby creating this insecurity. The Minister and the government will also have to deal with this. And it has been a little difficult to get the government on the field to exactly the same extent here in relation to what came last weekend, about the nightlife in the larger cities. But outside the big cities there must also be security, and therefore I am glad that today we will have the opportunity to have a discussion with the Foreign Minister about how to ensure the security when the government and the state will move some residents to a small urban community, here Sandvad in Jutland, place them in a abandoned nursing home in the middle of the urban community next to the playground, next to the bus stop, when these citizens are described as people who also have something in their luggage that can really create insecurity, such as: Convicts of murder and sensual crimes and the like. That is really what we want to discuss here, in other words how to ensure that these citizens are safe. I am glad that the Minister is running and we look forward to hearing the answer, not just us, but also those representatives from the local community who have come forward with great numbers here today and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117130537	Thank you for the explanatory statement. In order to give the frame, both to the mfs and the listeners etc., an urgent request is that it should be settled within 2 hours. I shall do my best to manage this, but it also requires the goodwill of the rapporteurs, so that we ensure that everyone is given the floor along the way. We shall now first hear the reply from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117130615	Thank you to the parties that have called for this urgent debate and thank you to the President for the floor. I have, of course, followed the situation around the asylum centre in Sandvad, and for me it is important that there is always a good dialogue between the authorities and the local communities where asylum centres are located, and this also applies, of course, to this matter. The Foreigners' Board is responsible for providing and operating accommodation for asylum seekers and for foreigners without legal residence in Denmark. This is stated in Section 42 of the Aliens Act. In practice, a number of operators operate the various accommodation locations on behalf of the Foreigners' Agency. Red Cross drives e.g. Center Sandvad, which we are talking about today. Under the Foreigners' Board's support must be offered accommodation, and then the board must find the best possible accommodation solution on the basis of a professional assessment. It is perfectly normal practice for the board to dispose of the accommodation available to it. The administration can move residents if it is needed for various reasons. Center Sandvad has e.g. previously used as a common residence centre in the asylum centre system, and by 2020 the centre was put into service as a quarantine centre for foreigners with covid-19. Now a new need has emerged. The Foreigners' Board needs accommodation for a small group of vulnerable people who are very caring and caring. This is due to various forms of mental or physical impairment. Had it been people with legal residence, they could alternatively be in a psychiatric residence or in a nursing home. The target group therefore needs accommodation in a smaller and sheltered environment and needs a special educational effort with a significantly higher staff rating than in an ordinary centre. The target group is moved from their former residence in North Jutland, because the Foreigners' Board has wanted to change its partner. The Foreigners' Agency has estimated that Center Sandvad is a suitable accommodation for the target group. In other words, it is a professional authority decision to move a new resident group to Sandvad, and this has been the case for many, many years. The Foreigners' Board regularly moves residents between the Board's centres within a year. In these cases, the Foreigners' Board has a dialogue with the relevant municipalities, in the same way as the Board in this case had a dialogue with Vejle Municipality, where Center Sandvad is located. Dialogue with citizens from the local area is usually carried out by the accommodation operator who operates the centre on behalf of the Immigration Authority. The Foreigners' Board has since learned that it was not enough in this case, and that is why the Board has also been in dialogue with the citizens on a few occasions afterwards. However, regardless of the desire for dialogue, the Foreigners' Board cannot provide information on the private situation of specific individuals, including information on crime that the future residents of the Centre may have committed in the past. The Foreigners' Board can only give a general opinion on the resident group, and it is, as I mentioned before, a group of vulnerable persons; persons who, because of their behaviour and/or care needs or care needs, cannot operate in a normal everyday life at a regular asylum centre, whether or not it is a reception centre that we know, such as: Sandholm, or about a living center such as... the one in Jelling, or an exit center that we know from Kærshovedgård. It is not a question of the residents serving a freedom sentence in the accommodation system. The Immigration Authority is now in dialogue with the local people about the plans for the centre and the insecurity that citizens have expressed to them. The Foreigners' Board took part in a citizens' meeting on 5 November 2021, where the Board informed about the case. In order to meet the desire for continued dialogue, the Foreign Affairs Council held another meeting with citizens on 12 November. At the meetings, the Foreigners' Board has informed about the resident group and the accommodation offer from which the group comes. The board has also informed about the accommodation plans of the group at Center Sandvad. At both meetings there was an opportunity for those present to ask questions both to the Foreigners' Board and to the Red Cross. I also know that South East Jutland police participated in the citizens' meetings on 5 and 12 November. Some of what I understand the police are focusing on is increased daily supervision of the centre and in Sandvad itself, and it is also security and proximity-building work at and at the center in Sandvad, among others. in the form of reinforced patrols. In addition, a contact system will be established where the centre can contact dedicated officers. In addition to the police's efforts, the National Council for Citizens' Meetings has also offered citizens from the local area special measures to reduce insecurity. Among other things: the board has given a guarantee that at no time will more than 22 people be accommodated in the target group that is now moving into Center Sandvad. I think the current figure for the target group is 15. The board has also offered to set up a follow-up group for Center Sandvad with, for example, representatives of the board, local police, the Red Cross and the citizens' associations that are in Sandvad. So to sum up: The Foreign Affairs Agency has been responsible for accommodation at Danish asylum centres for many years. It follows from the Aliens Act. In this case, the Foreigners' Board's professional assessment is that the Sandvad Centre is the most suitable centre for the Residents' Group. It is a decision of the professional authority which I do not wish to interfere with. And I am probably not the only minister over time who insists that Denmark's governments should be responsible for the professional assessments, while here in Parliament we take the political decisions. This is, of course, also true in this case. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131154	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Now there is the possibility of one brief remark from each of the general rapporteurs. First, it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131200	I would like to ask the Minister if he can confirm that among the residents who come to this center there are nine treatment sentences, three previously convicted of murder, one convicted of crimes of morality committed against minors and more than half of the residents have a expulsion sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131223	I can neither confirm nor deny that, because fortunately we live in a country where the authorities do not inform any citizen of any previous criminal relations of other citizens. But what I can do If there are some of them who have been convicted of something, it is served as well as other people who have been convicted of something and who, after serving, are stepping into Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131300	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131302	Thank you. I understand very well if the people of Sandvad think what is happening here is totally unacceptable. I live in Horsens, which is not far from here. One thing is getting this in your backyard, another thing is getting these criminals as a neighbor. But in order to make things even worse, the local community has been informed that there are no criminals, but there are some who have special needs. But that's not the truth. So what I do not understand is compared to the time when we were in the miser of Langeland, where the citizens again really rebelled and said that we will not accept this. There the Minister actually went down to Langeland and met with the local citizens. This time, the Minister has just been completely noisy in relation to the citizens. I think many of them are sitting up there but will the Minister do the same as he did with regard to Langeland, that is to say to go there, look the citizens in the eye and explain why this is a really, really good idea from the point of view of the Minister, but from our point of view, this is a really, really bad idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131401	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131402	Perhaps I should start by saying that experience from North Jutland, where this group has been accommodated so far, is that the residents have only had a lot that the residents typically leave the place only with the staff, and there has been no particular police action by the North Jutland Police. I also think that there is a difference between making a political decision, for which I believe politicians should be accountable, and whether an authority decision has been taken for which I believe the authorities should be accountable. I don't think it would be right for us to politicize this kind of decision. I do not believe that this benefits either our accommodation in the asylum system or the political process in general in the field of foreigners. And that's why I think there's a difference here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131452	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131455	Thank you. I do not think the Minister can waive his responsibility in this matter. After all, he is the chief boss, and when an authority acts very, very unfortunately, I also think that the Minister must accept his responsibilities. So, I think the Minister is going right to the edge of saying something factually wrong today from the platform. He says that good dialogue is important; he says that there has been dialogue. But is the Minister aware that in the dialogue that has taken place with the Municipality of Vejle, there has been some serious misrepresentation? This means that there has been a dialogue with Vejle Municipality to take a target group with vulnerable, that is to say socially vulnerable, but not criminal citizens.This is what has been explicitly informed to Vejle Municipality. In addition, it has been rejected four times to the local community by direct contact when the Ekstra Bladet began to write about the fact that they were citizens with a criminal past. If the Minister from the top says that a good dialogue is important, can he not see that this process needs to change if you really mean it by a good dialogue and when you have based a dialogue on wrong information for both the municipality and the local population? Is that how the minister thinks his system should act?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131555	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131556	I would like to start by saying that I do not in any way deny myself the responsibility either of what is going on in the department or of the agencies belonging to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. In the end, every comma that is put by all employees of the Ministry's organization is my responsibility as the chief minister responsible. What I just want to insist on is that the thousands of decisions and decisions taken by the immigration authorities every year should not be politicised. Once Parliament has passed legislation, and we have done so with Paragraph 42 of the Aliens Act, which deals with who is responsible for the accommodation of asylum, we also leave it to the authorities responsible to take the decisions and take the decisions. Then it goes without saying that state authorities must have a good dialogue with both the municipalities and also with the local communities to which the decisions that are being made contribute. And of course I have followed the public debate about the situation in Sandvad, and I can also read from some of the statements that have been made by the Foreigners' Board that one has also had a desire to have communicated better and earlier, and of course I take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131710	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131711	Thank you. The residents are obviously very concerned and for understandable reasons, I believe. What will the Minister and what can the Minister say to reassure the citizens that the decision taken here will not pose a problem for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131731	Thank you for the question. Of course, when the Immigration Authority decides to accommodate some people somewhere, the authorities have information about who these people are. Not all the information is passed on to the accommodation operator, which in this case is the Red Cross. The Red Cross will get the information they need to do their job. If there are also other tasks to be solved, for example. By the police, the authorities will of course have to ensure that those tasks are also dealt with. So it is not the case that someone turns their eyes away and does not care where asylum seekers are accommodated. I would just like to say in general terms that there have been no challenges in North Jutland, which has been very limited interaction with the local community.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131830	Thank you. And we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we can now start the rapporteur's round, and the first is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117131846	Thank you for that, President. Let me start with the conclusion: the conclusion in this debate should be that, in order to restore the security of the local community, the Minister accepts that he himself is making himself available to the local community, has a discussion and a debate on what is up and down in all this and how to ensure the security of the local community. If it is the government's concern and the minister here says that it is important for the government that there is security in the community... the minister should at least conclude on this debate that he himself will make himself available to the community. It is about to appear in Sandvad, not quietly with any officials, not pushing anyone in front of him who cannot really take up this discussion, but himself, as the Minister has done in other contexts. The minister went to Langeland to take the discussion there, the minister went to Kærshovedgård to take the debate in Bording and elsewhere, and the government has the point that it wants to show that it really is in line with the people and listens and involves and all these things. The Foreign Minister says that this is an authority decision, and with the experience of this government over the last few years, it is sometimes thought that the government is looking at it a little bit big. Politically, then, there is acceptance that this is a political debate. There is the whole discussion that the government is really going to push through its affairs because it is politicians who have to lay down the rules in this country and run with things, and not the officials, and right here the Minister is doing just that, pulling the officials in front of him as a shield, not taking the debate himself. So the Minister must make himself available. What is the next logical consequence of this? It is, of course, that the Minister also ensures that these residents, until this dialogue has been conducted and the security of the community has been restored, are not moved to Sandvad. It is of no use that while we have this discussion, these residents in the shelter of winter darkness are moved to Sandvad, and the government may think that things are just solved. It is also reinforced by the fact that Vejle Municipality, which rents out this building to the Foreigners' Board, has made it clear that if you do not restore security in the local community, and these were some of the promises made in the municipal election campaign, then the municipal politicians in Vejle Municipality will not extend the lease, which expires in about a year. This means that we now have a situation in which the government then with one hand pushes some residents into a community that creates real insecurity, but on the other hand also has to recognise that in a moment you will have to move them again. Then maybe it was better to take the dialogue now and find a proper solution to this and find out how to deal with these people, while at the same time not burdening a community with insecurity. I understand that local citizens are insecure. I understand that when the authorities cannot answer what people are and what they carry in their luggage, it creates insecurity. If so, the center will house people who have been convicted of murder in Denmark who have been convicted of sexuality crimes committed against minors, where half of them have a expulsion sentence from Denmark and these are people who then live right around the corner of the playground, at the bus stop, etc. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party think that it is they who create the insecurity that must be locked up, and if it were up to us, it was they who should be behind a closed door and not the Danes who should then live as neighbors. We have said this explicitly, also in relation to the debate on Langeland, Kærshovedgård etc., and we of course also think so in relation to what is being discussed now in relation to Centre Sandvad. I really think that the Minister should take this seriously and I think that the Minister should surprise us all today by coming up here at the end and saying: I have understood the lesson, I come to Sandvad, taking the discussion with the local citizens before moving someone into their centre. Therefore, on behalf of the Left, Conservatives, Liberal Alliance, New Citizens, Mrs Inger Støjberg (UFG) and the Danish People's Party, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the Minister to suspend the transfer of new residents to the asylum centre in Sandvad and to engage in a dialogue with local citizens to ensure that the security of the local community can be restored. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132310	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. But first there is a brief comment on Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132314	Thank you. I can understand that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that he's very unhappy with this. I understand, too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that you are very unhappy that Kærshovedgård is where Kærshovedgård is located, and when we discussed this topic just before the summer break, it was about Langeland. I think it says something about the fact that no matter where we place such an exit centre, the local population will be unhappy. There may be all kinds of reasons why I think that one of the reasons is the way we talk about the exit centres in here, but I also think that another reason is that we collect many criminal foreigners in one place instead of dividing them up. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Where else will these centres lie?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132403	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132404	Well, my and the Danish People's Party's solution is to let these people go through a screening process, and the people who are actually supposed to create this insecurity must, when it comes to foreigners and among other things. They are not able to strangle freely in our society. I know that we are always told that there are some international conventions and so on, but I think that is basically the way to deal with it. For Mrs Rosa Lund is quite right that what happens is that when we move these people around in society, there are always Danes as neighbours who think it is terrible. I would also just like to say that, after all, there is also a difference between some people who live there, I would have almost said out in an open field where there is a long way to an urban community, or for example. on an island like Lindholm, which is uninhabited, on which someone could be housed, and saw placing someone in a abandoned nursing home in the middle of a city community, right next to a bus stop and right next to a playground.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132456	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132457	As I remember the debate on Lindholm, the citizens who lived in the local community from which the ferry sailed were also very insecure about that decision. It's just before we talk about it, if we just place them on Lindholm, everybody's happy. That's not true, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. That's one thing. The second point is that I do not think I was given the answer to my question. Where are these people supposed to be? We have, of course, proposed in the Enhedslisten that instead of creating large centres, people should actually be split up so as not to place many people in a small community, because I understand that this can change the whole community. But why do we have to make these big centers? That's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti, who have created this system themselves, which means that we are constantly in here discussing locations of exit centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132545	Thank you, Mrs. Rosa Lund. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132546	We suggest that you screen these people and that those who create insecurity come behind lockdown and beat that door lock. We are prepared to take responsibility for this. I have to say that we have not been able to get through this, because then you point to the international conventions, and yes, we have been working on a solution on the island of Lindholm, because we believe that it is, after all, more difficult, if you are on an island, to go to land and move around freely, and then there are better opportunities for the police to keep an eye on where these people are. This is not the best solution. The best solution is to accept that there is a situation where those whose presence constitutes insecurity are behind a locked door.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132621	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. There are no more brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132633	Thank you. The Danish People's Party, the Left, Conservatives and New Citizens have called for this urgent request because, as a consequence of an authority decision, about 15 asylum seekers with special needs are placed at an asylum centre in the small community of Sandvad in Vejle Municipality. I understand that it can be a cause for concern when you hear that asylum seekers with special needs and a special profile will come to a small local community. On the other hand, I would remind you that it is not criminals who are accommodated, and people with the same profile who are Danish citizens or who are permanently resident, live there on their own today and also did so under the previous blue majority. Since the group, which is going to Sandvad, was previously accommodated at another centre in Brovst in North Jutland, it did not cause any problems. That is why, however, a direct and open dialogue with neighbours and residents of Sandvad is clearly necessary before the new residents of the asylum centre move in. I do not believe, however, that, as the call for today's debate states, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration should be responsible for this dialogue. This is an authority decision. It is not a political decision, it is not the Minister who sits in this or in other cases and decides where asylum seekers are to be accommodated. It is therefore neither the government, the Folketing nor the municipal council in Vejle that have decided that asylum seekers should go to Center Sandvad. It's an authority decision by the Foreigners' Agency. All of this doesn't change the fact that now the task is to restore security in the local area. Not least, the task is that the Danish National Council, the Danish Red Cross and the police have established a good dialogue with the local community. As far as I understand from the Mayor of Vejle, there is a majority who has said very clearly that if there is insecurity in a year's time when rental contracts expire, the City Council will not extend the contract. Then the mall closes. In those words, I will read out a proposal for adoption from the Enhedslisten, Radical Left, SF and Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Foreign Affairs Agency is responsible for housing asylum seekers, etc. The Danish Parliament notes that in some cases accommodation can reasonably give rise to public debate. The Folketing stresses the importance of facilitating good dialogue with affected citizens in all cases. • V 13).
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132858	Thank you. That too will now be part of the further debate. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132904	Thank you very much, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. I was able to understand from the Minister and now from the rapporteur that the citizen's closeness and thanks to all those who have come forward should not be so worried, because in North Jutland there were no major problems, so there will be no problems in Sandvad either. The difference is that in North Jutland these criminals lived out in a forest, while in Sandvad they live next to a playground next to a bus stop. So will the rapporteur seriously maintain that the security of the playground next to these criminals remains the same when these criminals move to Sandvad?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117132937	No matter where one places such a centre here, it will give rise to a debate, especially if some try politically to inflate a debate. The fact is that the group to be accommodated here did not cause any problems when it was in Brovst. We have never had debates on it, for example. here in the Assembly Hall, in the same way that we have had it about Soulsmark and Kærshovedgård, because it is quite other good types that are accommodated here. We've never had the same kind of debates about this center since it was in Brovst. Now there is a partly politically bloated interest in creating a heated atmosphere about the accommodation in Sandvad, despite the fact that the authorities are doing what they can, including with the help of the police, to avert problems and at the same time point out that when it was in Brovst, there were no problems. The police in North Jutland have nothing to notice about the center from when it was in Brovst. Now we are trying to create a picture that there were major problems and will be major problems, and that is not a real picture to give; that is why I do not think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133040	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133042	Thank you. Since the rapporteur apparently believes that safety in the playground will be exactly the same, even though a bunch of criminals, some of them former murderers, move in next to the rapporteur, says that of course security will be the same, the rapporteur does not think that we blue parties are at least right in saying that the minister should do as he has done at Kærshovedgård on Langeland, namely to meet the citizens who have now gone all the way to Copenhagen, so actually meet them face-to-face in a citizens' meeting in Sandvad and explain why this is a good idea and why security in the playground is not going to remain unchanged?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133116	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133119	First of all, contrary to Mr. Marcus Knuth doesn't have exactly what profile these people have; I don't have access to sensitive personal information about them. Secondly, there are no criminals being accommodated here. If anyone has been sentenced to a sentence of liberty or otherwise, it has to be served before you even consider a kind of center like this. Thirdly, you can be detained immediately if you are in some form of treatment or similar, as lots of other foreigners in Denmark can be, and thus live on your own somewhere in Denmark and then break the obligations that exist in that regard. That is why it is the task of the police to enforce that there is, of course, no insecurity here in the local area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133201	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133204	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund for the speech, although I am not very happy with the content. But I have a question for Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. If we now consider that Vejle Municipality, as the landlord of this property, insists that you do not want to extend the lease in a year's time, and we can at the same time understand that this is where some residents are moving in, who need very special conditions, because they are extra demanding in relation to staff, etc., and that requires a large setup and arrangement and things and cases. may last a year, and then you're about to move these residents again, sir. Rasmus Stoklund might then think that it's neckless deed to move them in here in the first place? Or should you really try to postpone it here and find out if there was a more suitable location somewhere else that might also be a little more out in the countryside than in the middle of a city community, that is, where you could have these people for a longer period than the coming year alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133307	I understand that the inhabitants of Sandvad are worried about the information that comes from, among other things. the blue parties which have called for this debate, which I am not aware of, and which I do not know from where they have been. If it turns out it's gonna be so insecure and horrible to live in Sandvad after this center is opened, then I understand if the city council decides not to extend this lease in a year. But the fact is that this center has been in Brovst Nordjylland for a long time, and there it has not caused any problems. The police in North Jutland say there have been no significant cases. These people who are going to live at the center will be out of the center primarily with educators and others. They are characterised by having special needs, being psychologically vulnerable and the like and not being able to cope under normal conditions at an asylum centre. So this picture that it's gluttonous predators that are going to move into Sandvad, I'm not sure that's right, and I don't know what kind of information that is, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mr. Marcus Knuth has access to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133415	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133416	I don't get a full answer to my question, because it's really the case that if there's a majority in Vejle Municipality that informs the Foreigners' Board that this lease will not be extended in one year. After all, the municipality will have a right to it; it will expire in one year, and then it will be extended and so it will be said that they will not rent any longer than they are obliged to, and that it will not be a new period, you will know in advance that these people will only live at this centre in the coming year, and that they will then have to move to another place. If it's the conditions, sir. Rasmus Stoklund then admit that what you do is a little crazy, and then maybe it was better to try to find a completely different location?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133455	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133456	The point is, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl here outlines, the fact is hypothetical. Because if we meet and discuss this case in a year's time and there have been no problems, just as there were no problems when a similar centre was in Brovst, there is no reason why Vejle Municipality should cancel this lease, whereas it is another matter if it turns out that that picture, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl paints that this is going to be a disaster for Sandvad, it is clear that then I understand that Vejle Municipality could involve or not prolong this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133532	Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133533	Thank you. I'm glad to be able to interpret what the mayor has just said a little more precisely for Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund. What an entire city council has stated very, very firm is that if this target group is not changed, it does not extend the lease under any circumstances, and that is because it is a professionally bad decision. Vejle Municipality has many specialized places where we also handle very, very heavy citizens, and this location is just completely insane, and therefore it is just professionally wrong. I think you could have a dialogue with Vejle Municipality about whether you could find another place that was more suitable. For a place where the first people you meet are children in a playground, we could never give instructions when we are dealing with such a heavy group if we ourselves stood for a place in the municipality of Vejle; now I speak as we speak, I have gone out of town council. But if I say to the rapporteur that at the meeting to which the Minister was also invited, where the Foreign Affairs Council was, in Kollerup on 5 November, the Foreign Affairs Council said directly: 'Ups!' We hadn't actually thought that this place was actually in the middle of a village. If we had known, might we have acted differently? Does that impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133639-2	It is the responsibility of the Foreigners' Agency where asylum seekers are to be located and live in different places in Denmark. It is therefore the Foreigners' Authority which is also responsible for such meetings. Of course, it is also the responsibility of the Foreigners' Agency to provide correct information and make decisions on a proper basis. And that's why Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson speak to the Foreign Affairs Agency if it is true what Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson says that they have made mistakes, because then they will have to make their decision if the mistakes which Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson says there is. In addition, however, I think that we continue to insist that there will certainly be a problem, and I will just say again: there has not been one in Brovst. There was no problem, as it were. And there isn't a problem in all the places in Denmark where there are people with the same profile as those who have to move into the center in Sandvad and who live on their own today. After all, there are plenty of staff here. The police are directly connected. People rarely go out without a teacher and break any of the conditions for their stay on Sandvad, they will be detained.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133745	Thank you. I mean, this group doesn't want to live on its own. It is simply too heavy for that, and it needs to be shielded. Now, of course, there is also a minister who insists that it should stay here, so it may also put a certain pressure on the Foreign Affairs Council not to make a decision on. But it is simply a group that you will never place such a place if you took a professional evaluation. There's a reason there weren't any problems in Brovst. It was because they were placed right in relation to them, for example. didn't meet kids as soon as they walked outside the door.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133820	The Minister is not really determined here because it is not the Minister who has made this decision. The Minister stands by the fact that it is from the Foreign Affairs Agency that decides where people are to be accommodated. This group is put together. I understand, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson and the others from the blue block know the gallery in detail and have access to some sensitive personal information that we others do not have access to. Nevertheless, it is a condition that if you had a permanent stay in Denmark, there are several with the same characteristics, which are in a exposed position and which would be able to live on their own in Denmark. If, for example, you had a permanent stay, or if you were a Danish citizen and had a court order or similar, you would stay in your own home, and if you broke the conditions, you could be detained.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133859	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117133901	Thank you for that, and I think it's fine that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is so firm that everything is good, because it could easily work in Brovst, and then it can probably work in Sandvad. But when the situation locally is different, as we hear, where you are very, very insecure about what is happening because, as several people have said, it is quite a different place, and there are quite different conditions and some quite different conditions that apply here.I wonder: would it not be the right thing as a politician to know it, so that there is very, very great insecurity to listen, take the dialogue, also as a minister and as a government, and quietly listen to what you say, rather than bust ahead, as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund here in the Assembly Hall today that everything is good and that it should just be the same as in Brovst? Also knowing that a majority in the Vejle City Council is in fact intended to terminate the agreement. So that means that you may have to move again in a relatively short time. Wasn't it an idea to listen a little, sir? Rasmus Stoklund?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134002	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134004	I am listening because otherwise I would not be here for this debate either. Of course I am listening, and I have followed the press too, and I have followed all the messages that have come and what I have heard people say they have of concern. However, I just think that we need to take a rather objective view of this and say: this is a decision that has never been taken so far by politicians, that is, how asylum seekers should be accommodated in the asylum system. This is something that we have an Foreigners' Board that is responsible for doing. They've done that here. We have an experience of how they have dealt with this in the past in Brovst. It is what the blue rapporteurs in this Chamber are saying today that they know better than they do but where there were no problems, and that is what the blue rapporteur in the Chamber is now insisting that there will be. That is why it is clear that we will meet again in a year's time, and it has turned out that there have been such huge problems as the blue rapporteurs in the Chamber today say there will be, that is another matter. But there is nothing, what to say, historical evidence to claim that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134103	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134103-2	That's where I think Mr. Rasmus Stoklund has suffered blindfolds, for it is not long ago that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's own government and Mr. Rasmus Stoklund presented the parties of the Danish Parliament • we all said "no" for a fixed and finished solution at Langeland, where it was said very specifically: it must be there that we must have them on tolerated stay; it is very important. Listen, the local mayor was so opposed to everyone else. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund said just now that politicians have never interfered with that. Yes, they do, and it is our job to listen to the citizens. It's gotta be like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134140	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134141	There is a difference between whether we are talking about those who do not have a legal residence and some who are asylum seekers. These are people who are asylum seekers. There may then be different circumstances around them because it is a particularly heavy group. The second was a political decision. That is why, of course, the Minister must also stand up to it. This isn't a political decision. It is an authority decision, and therefore it is also natural that it is the Foreigners' Authority that is in line for it, just as the Foreigners' Authority does, by the way, when the Foreigners' Board places people around the various centres you hold over in the asylum system, and... Well, now the speaking time has gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134214	Yes, it is. Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134231	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for coming here at short notice. This is a serious matter which means that we are standing here today because a simple reckless decision has been taken. It is also an example of really poor authority work for which the Minister has so far refused to take responsibility. First of all, it is a very problematic solution to place patients sentenced to treatment who have committed such violent crime as we have been able to read about in the press, in the middle of a residential area and right up the local playground. At the citizens' meeting in Kollerup on 5 November, the Foreigners' Board admitted that, unfortunately, no thought has been given to the inappropriate location of the Sandvad centre when it chose to move the target group. In addition, there has been an incredibly short process of creating these places, where we are usually now a municipality, where we have a lot of this type of places • will have a much, much longer run compared to getting the professional standards in place. So there are very, very many things that create insecurity when you hear the Foreigners' Board's reflections on what it takes to accommodate such a group here. That's why you might consider getting a second opinion or something from someone who actually works with this target group on a daily basis. It was quite clear that the representatives of the Foreigners' Agency we heard on that day in Kollerup are not working with this group on a daily basis. At the citizens' meeting we were also told that it is a group of people who are so challenged that they should have nothing to do with the citizens of the community. The fact that people are moving to Sandvad makes it even more problematic. The center is not secured, and the center has functioned very well as a center where the residents were part of the life of the village and you have had an asylum center there for many years because the town playground is nearest to the village. However, the neighbourhood of the city's playground is also one of the things that makes the centre totally unsuitable to accommodate the resident group now to be screened, and to be honest it does not seem that you have had a lot of thoughts about whether it was wise to place that group here when you made the decision. How can things go so wrong that the Foreign Affairs Council chooses to move a group of citizens to a place that is totally unsuitable, which is to the detriment of the residents of Sandvad, the local business community, but in fact also to the detriment of the citizens who are going to live there, because it is precisely not suitable for people with such problems. The reason why things have gone so wrong is that the process leading up to the choice of Sandvad has also been under all criticism. The citizens of Sandvad and Vejle Municipality have several times received incorrect information about who should move in. It has been stated that these were socially vulnerable, repeatedly, and repeatedly it has been rejected that there should be citizens with a criminal past. Had the Foreigners' Authority and the Red Cross told the truth, it would have been possible in good time to have a dialogue about why the location is a big mistake, and perhaps there could also have been a dialogue with Vejle Municipality, which actually has a relatively large experience of handling this type of citizen too, about finding a more appropriate location. It should be emphasized here that Vejle Municipality and the local area have had good and close cooperation with both the Red Cross and the National Council for Foreigners for years. In fact, the municipality of Vejle is among the municipalities that take the greatest responsibility when it comes to accepting asylum seekers and refugees and in fact also citizens with psychological challenges. So it is not about prejudice and lack of will to take responsibility. It is about the professionally being a hugely bad solution, and it is sad that the long-standing good cooperation is being put at risk because of the unwillingness to make the decision about the location and the courage to listen to each other's completely professional, objective and proper arguments about why this is not for the benefit of anyone at all. It is therefore a decision which has created an insecurity which could easily have been avoided. It is also questionable that we have a minister who does not involve and inform the Danish Parliament at all which, unfortunately, is not a special view of this government in relation to a matter which is so controversial and which has so great and negative consequences. Clearly, the unwillingness to test your arguments leads to unfortunate and ill-thought-out decisions time and time again. I hope that today we can get the Minister to stop before the damage has been done. The municipality of Vejle has already announced that the contract, which expires next year, will not be extended if the target group is not changed. Thus it is a waste of money and to the detriment of citizens to move this group to Sandvad, and it will destroy a very good collaboration with the Municipality of Vejle, which has taken a huge responsibility in this area. Dear Minister, it is not a shame to admit a mistake. I hope that we can have a very good debate about changing it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134647	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134650	Thank you. I am very curious about what the Left had actually imagined to be done. The system we have today, with exit centres, reporting obligations, residence bans... all this has been created by a Left Government. So I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left: what did you have in mind? Would you have imagined that we in this Parliament would each time treat where an asylum centre or an exit center would be located? That would, of course, be a strange form of parish council policy, I think, at least, where we would all sit and say that it should not be in our constituency, rather than looking at actually solving the problem. That is why I am curious: has the Left changed its position on the system created by the Left itself in the area of asylum?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134741	No, well, I don't think it's about that, and I think everything else is getting mixed up in this debate. This is about having a system and I hope that the Minister will at least ask for a second opinion on it with an authority that makes a very, very unfortunate decision, which professionally is not for the benefit of the citizens and which is completely crazy in relation to the citizens of this local area, as it is not a secured institution. When an authority is wrong in this way and I, as a minister or local politician, become aware that a mistake has been made, and one has not considered at all what it means to place such a target group here right up to a playground in the middle of a parcelhouse district, then I also have an expectation that, in relation to both the target group and the citizens, you, as a politician with the highest responsibility, will also help to correct it; that is to say, when you get to know that there is an authority that keeps telling wrong things to citizens, and a city council does not want to take this debate on whether it is professionally right that you then react and ensure that you actually have some public authorities that speak the truth and look citizens in the eye when you make a decision, so that we can debate it on an open and enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134849	Yes, please! Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134850	Well, it is because the rapporteur of the Left said that the Folketing should have been involved, and then I just think: what should we have been involved in? So, should we have sat with the Danmark map and with each of our drawing pins and said that there we would like this exit center to slash the asylum center? Well, I don't think we could do anything else in here but discuss what is really the professional task of the authorities, namely where these centres are to be located. I really think it says something about the construction you have made. But what I am asking is: was that what the rapporteur of the Left had imagined, that we should then sit each party and place it on a Danish map?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134928	Thank you for that! Now we get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117134929	I would have expected a minister to react when there is an entire local area, an entire town council and a very large part of the Danish Parliament, who does not understand a decision that has been taken and who, when you ask professionals, is very, very special. And it is not about being for or against them being in a place or whatever alien law we have; it is simply about being professionally a strange decision. Then we have an expectation that there is a minister who, before he has to be drawn forward by coming to an urgent question, is responding and is also in dialogue with the Folketing and trying to defend and explain why his authority has made the decisions they have made. And there we think it is a strange tactic that you do not hear from the Minister for several months, so we have to drag him through an urgent request.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135005	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135015	Thank you. In North Jutland, a small handful of treatment-intensive people have lived in a building, and so far they have not made very much of it. Now the same people have to live in Sandvad for practical reasons. You don't know the future. At least I don't want to tell you about it. So what do the authorities say? I can inform you that the Foreigners' Board describes the residents of the centre as follows: • It is not a group that is experiencedly active or visible in the local area, and the Foreigners' Board is not immediately aware that citizens of the community where they are currently. is in the neighborhood, has complained about the resident group. There has not been a single complaint, not an alert, not a pip I think it is a very thin basis to call for an urgent inquiry debate on. Nevertheless, SF's response to today's request is a big yes. We understand that Sandvaders can feel insecure, and we understand that they are worried, because despite the fact that we do not really have anything tangible that points to the fact that residents are causing problems in their vicinity, the blue block has speculated in so much dope and doomsday prophecy in this matter that even I could get a little bit nervous. Therefore, the citizens of Sandvad cannot be thought for a single second of being worried. I would also be if people warned that Kærshovedgård should be in my backyard. The only question is with what evidence it is believed to be able to claim that this is the case here. Of course, we cannot guarantee that the residents do not suddenly change character and become a problem when they are moved, because you cannot know the future, and I expect the government and the Foreigners' Authority to do everything they can if anything changes in the behaviour of this handful of people, but it seems bizarre in my optics to demand a political intervention in the responsibility of a governing body for accommodation without being able to point to a specific case. We are, of course, at this urgent debate, because blue block saw the sensational headline of the Extra Leaf and thought: Yes, a new Kærshovedgårdssager. The whole article certainly could not have read, because the point with Kærshovedgård was that we were buried in evidence that there were problems, and buckets of stories about the many hardships that the community lived with, as both the board and the Red Cross confirmed. They reject that in Sandvad's case. Kærshovedgård had a type of resident who could cause difficulties locally. In other words, there was a problem which could only be resolved politically, otherwise, of course, it would have been up to the Foreign Affairs Council. Blue bloc speaks a lot about power at the moment, but interfering in the day-to-day operation of a governing body solely on the basis of what is ultimately an imaginary problem, which may and may not arise in an unknown future, is simply to be ashamed to believe that as a politician you must decide everything that you have to override an authority decision without being able to prove why. With those words, I can inform you that the SF supports the adoption text, which Mr. Rasmus Stoklund read earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135320	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135323	I would say that frankly, I am almost speechless. The rapporteur uses the words that this is an idea I think that the people sitting up there do not think this is an idea Now we can see that the support parties are again ringing the government, despite the fact that the government is doing something that the Danes think is completely unacceptable • which Rosa Lund apparently thinks is funny, I understand. I can see here that the red parties have come together on a text where, among other things, there is one. states that in all cases the authorities facilitate a good dialogue with the citizens Would the rapporteur think that facilitating a good dialogue with the citizens is that the Minister himself takes responsibility and goes to Sandvad and meets with the citizens, or is it sitting here in the Chamber and hiding?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135408	I don't think you're sitting in the Assembly Hall hiding. In other words, we are going to have a question debate and we are going to have an excellent dialogue on it, and I certainly do not have any need to demand that the Minister go to the citizens here. I think there is an excellent local dialogue and the authorities have taken care of it. In relation to the fact that the support parties are again ringing the government, I would say that I do not always think we do that in foreign policy. I think there are plenty of cases in which we have thrown a table before the government, but I think that in this case the authorities are allowed to do their job and do it on a factual basis, and I think that is quite appropriate. That is why we support the government's approach because we agree. There's no conspiracy at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135451	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135452	But it is funny because the rapporteur himself comes from the SF, and not long ago, when it was about placing an exit centre in the only municipality where the SF, at least until today, had a mayor, namely Langeland, the SF went all the way up in the red and called the minister, and the minister went down to Langeland, and the minister did so. The minister went down there, he looked the citizens in the eye and explained what was up and down, and then he removed these plans. This time it's not about a SF municipality. Can the rapporteur explain what the logic is in this? This time, it's a trifle. It's something that's supposed to be a problem. When it was about SF's own municipality, it was the worst Armageddon.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135529	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135530	It's funny. You'd almost think, sir. Marcus Knuth had written his question in advance, for it seemed as if he had not listened to what my speech was about. After all, it addressed the big difference between the two situations here, because the situation with Langeland was that it knew that the group of citizens had caused a great deal of problems locally, where they were in the past, that there had been a lot of complaints, and right now a great deal of work is being done to secure the local area better where they are. In this case, it is not any human being who makes any special creature of himself. There is nothing to suggest that this is going to cause any major problems, and that is the very big difference in relation to the situation with Langeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135607	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135609	I participated very actively in the debate on Holmegaard at Langeland, and Mr. Carl Valentin, too, and that's right, as sir. Marcus Knuth says that we had a situation on Langeland with a SF mayor, and Mr. Carl Valentin himself also has some lines left to at least the Funen. Now, if we were to play with the idea that this center we're talking about today should move to a place where there was a SF mayor, you can imagine that Mr. Carl Valentin's interest in a good dialogue with the citizens was a little different? Well, I can clearly remember when it was a matter of concern to Mr. Carl Valentin, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration went to Langeland, as Mr. Carl Valentin to form a majority with the rest of us to stop plans for an exit centre on Langeland, and now Mr. Carl Valentin, I had almost said quite sacredly, saying that this is something that the authorities must take care of and something like that, and trying to find some kind of maritime explanation of why you cannot have a similar political discussion here, in relation to whether these Sandvad children should be burdened with these residents.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135717	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135718	I think it's fun to talk about SF's interest in good dialogue being different. In other words, we always have an interest in a good dialogue, and it is also my impression that the authorities have a good dialogue in the local community. And to this, we should have demanded that the Minister go to Langeland and something like that, I would say that I do not think we did. I think the Minister did so on his own initiative, and I was a little surprised that the Minister went there on the day the whole matter went up. But I think I have explained quite clearly why I think the two cases are different. There is nothing to suggest that there should be major problems with this move here. The authorities describe the citizens as someone who does not really cause any problems in the local area and is not a nuisance, and that is why I think it is a completely different type of case where I have no need for us as politicians to go in to administer something that can be done well by the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135811	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135811-2	However, I understand that it is important that there is a good dialogue. And if you have two parties, let us say that we have immigration authorities on the one hand, and that we have local residents on the other hand, is a good dialogue based on the fact that both parties think that there is a good dialogue, and if the local citizens now think that there has been a purely miserable dialogue, does the rapporteur not agree that there is something to be repaired and that then it is an obligation on the Minister to ensure that it is repaired, so that there is a good dialogue, and then the local citizens also think there has been a good dialogue? And does the rapporteur not agree that moving these people into the area before the good dialogue has been there would be a derisory act?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135850	I actually think that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has a point here. In other words, if there is a party to a discussion that does not see a good dialogue with the authorities at all, then that is a problem and the authorities have an important task in this regard. Of course, the citizens must feel heard, and it is important, if you are concerned about a matter, that you can also feel that you are being listened to. That is why I also hope that the authorities will do a great deal of work here in the future to ensure that dialogue is as good as possible, especially after this matter has been blown up in the media, because it can also inflate a little to the insecurity there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135922	Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117135923	It must be on its own account that it has been blown up in the media. The media have revealed that the Foreigners' Agency and the Red Cross have spoken untruely to both the municipality and the citizens for a long period of time. I think that is actually quite nicely done by the media. Well, it's not like they just turned down criminals. You said: there will be no criminals in the new target group. And that's what they told both the municipality and the residents. And I actually think it's pretty good that we have some media that go after the authorities when they don't tell the truth to the local area. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he does not see that there is a difference, because it is people on the board that we have been informed at the citizens' meeting that are so ill and that have committed such violent crime because of their illness that they must not have contact with the local community. Can the rapporteur not see, if he is perhaps using his common sense, that it is perhaps wiser to have them in a place where there is a little difficulty for them to get in touch with the local community instead of placing them in the middle of a parcelhouse district in a town right next to the playground, where it is almost impossible to keep them separate from the rest of the community?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140020	I don't need to know where it's best to place these people. I am actually very confident that the authorities are doing their job very well here. They describe that it is not some citizens who do something special of themselves, and that when these people move out, it is as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund also mentioned earlier, most often accompanied by staff. So when you have an assessment that this isn't going to cause any big problems, I don't expect that to happen either. If any problems arise in relation to the new citizens who have been transferred, it is clear that this is a completely different matter, and then we will have to discuss whether to act on it. But I do not see what should be the basis for assuming that major problems would arise here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140101	Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140102	Now, of course, it is the Foreigners' Agency, which is an authority which works according to some other paragraphs than we usually work after in social psychiatry and elsewhere, but does the rapporteur know some examples of the fact that other places have chosen to place such a target group in such a place as is now going to be done in Sandvad? And then I want to hear, if we are going to speak for the sick people here, whether the rapporteur does not find it problematic that the Foreigners' Board should choose an approach where they move around twice in a year. There are also some citizens who benefit from security. Now you choose a place where you know that the municipality will cancel the lease if you stick to this target group. Is that not a problem for the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140136	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140139	Well, I shouldn't be able to say if it's a problem that you move them twice in a short time. I believe that the authorities are trying to get as flexible a process as possible and that poses as few problems as possible, and I really believe that they are doing their best to ensure this. Whether there are examples of other places where people have been placed in a similar way, I cannot say. I do not know enough about all the locations of similar groups, but there is a clear assessment that it is not some people who will cause great problems for the local community and I am reasonably confident in the authorities' assessment here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140209	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140211	It is clear from the Aliens Act that when, for example, an ex-refugee must have assessed whether he or she should have extended his or her residence permit, it is the Foreigners' Board that decides whether or not to do so. Sometimes there are people who think that it should be the politicians and the Minister's intention to interfere in and make the decision and leave it, even if the authorities consider that it is not necessary. It is customary here for the blue bloc to think that this is not a political issue, but something that the authorities have to decide individually in each case. It is also stated in the Aliens Act that it is the authorities that decide how to accommodate asylum seekers. It's in section 42, and that's what the authorities have done in this case too. Now we are moving away from the principle that we must respect the law and let the authorities work. Now it is thought that the matter should be politicised. Does the rapporteur not agree that there is a slight lack of rigour in the blue block argument on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140304	A leading question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140307	Leading questions are good. Well, there is a total lack of rigour, and I think this matter is being completely blown up. I believe that the Blue Block hopes that a new great scandal can be created, and that can certainly be to the benefit of the Blue Block. I just don't see what it's supposed to be building on in this case. So I fully agree: the argument is not connected, and there is little to come after here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140333	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140334	I am pleased to hear that, and I also think that it is a good thing for the rapporteur to share the basic position he has expressed on all sides of the House today, namely that if it turns out that there will be insecurity or problems, it will be a different matter immediately. But the experience of Brovst, where these people have previously been accommodated, is, according to the police and the authorities, that there have been no problems and that is why that is the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140403	Exactly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140408	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. Let's move on. Now it's Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140414	Thank you. I think it is a little strange that the parties in the blue bloc have called for an urgent request for a system they have created themselves and with which they are now suddenly having major problems. I think that should actually call for a little self-examination in the blue block in here in the Folketing. Perhaps the way we run asylum policy in Denmark is not the right one. The system we are talking about today is a system that was created when we had a left-wing government with the Danish People's Party as the support party. To answer the urgent question: yes, I understand that you are insecure. I think this is related to the way we talk about asylum seekers in this country, especially in this Parliament hall! In fact, we do not know much about the people who are now going to live in Sandvad. We don't do that because that information is private, personal. That's how it's supposed to be in a community of law. Excuse me, sir. Marcus Knuth, I just pulled a little bit on the smile tape when you said we on the left were ringing the government. It is usually the case that those sitting on the other side of the House who are ringing the government's immigration policy. In any case, I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration does not always see Enhedslisten as some who call him to say it as it is. But with that aside, I fully agree that if it turns out that there is great insecurity and that crime is increasing, then of course we have to do something about it. But in reality, I think that this says the most about the fact that we have created a system that is absolutely terrible. On the other side of the summer break, that is, before the summer break, we had exactly this discussion, which several rapporteurs have also mentioned. It was just about Langeland. We often have the discussion about Kærshovedgård. No one wants to be neighbors to these centres, and I really think that this is something that is wrong with the construction itself. That is why we need to look at making asylum policy in a different way. I do not think that is sensible, for example. To gather a lot of criminals in one place. I think it would be much better to distribute them, so it wasn't many people who came in and suddenly filled enormously in a small community. It is clear that 12-14 people in Copenhagen are something other than 12-14 people in a city that is much smaller. That only makes sense, I think. And that is why I think we need to look at how we can create smaller units when we work with asylum seekers, both rejected and expelled it is not the same thing. I really think that is what this is about. I find it very strange to see a blue block that has created this system of exit centres, which we spend insanely much money on today, i.e. incredibly much money. And it doesn't solve anything. In fact, I think this is proof that it's time to look at a completely different system, because otherwise we're just having exactly the same discussion when we move this asylum centre somewhere, where there are some other people who think it's not nice that it's just in their backyard or at their bus stop. I hope, of course, that it turns out that this is not going to cause any problems, but I think that it calls for a completely different system and another debate on rejected and expelled asylum seekers. For that reason, the Enhedslisten can, for one rare time, support a text for adoption in the field of foreigners presented by Mr. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140831	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140834	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund, who says that this is really just about the way we talk about them, so that in here in the Danish Parliament and in particular we blue parties speak too hard when we express ourselves critically. The rapporteur also says that she does not know what these people have really done and what they have condemned for. I am sure that the rapporteur has been familiar with some of the articles that have been published, such as: The one in the Extra Leaf, where it says that... Several of the 13 new residents have been convicted of murder committed in Denmark, and some have also been convicted of crimes of morality. As the rapporteur knows, does the rapporteur still think it is all about rhetoric and does the rapporteur really think that it is a good idea for these people to live next to a playground?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140918	Of course, I don't think it's all about rhetoric, but some of it does, sir. Marcus Knuth. But of course it's not all about rhetoric. These are real people who live in Sandvad, and some of them sit up here on the audience row, I guess. It is also about real people who have been convicted of committing very serious crimes. So, of course, it's not just rhetoric. My point was more that we cannot say exactly who has done one thing and the other, because that is how it is in a community of law. There are also some of these people who are asylum seekers and who need special care and who are not necessarily criminals. That's my point, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140958	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117140959	Let me follow up further. The rapporteur says that if these people who have committed murder and crimes of morality should have the idea of committing crime again, then the rapporteur thinks that we should do something about it. Frankly, should we do something about it now so that they do not move in next to the playground, or should we wait for crime to be committed on the playground?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141020	We would really like to do something about it now and thank Mr. Marcus Knuth for the question, so I can elaborate. After all, in the Enhedslisten we have several times suggested putting deported criminals in an anklet so that they could be at home with their family, and so we did not gather them all together in the same place. I would think that was much more advantageous. While Mrs Inger Løjberg was Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, we actually sent a series of committee questions to find out whether this could be done, but we were repeatedly rejected, even though the technology of ankle chains actually exists. I would think that was an obvious possibility, because then we would not have these discussions that we have all the time about where one, the other, the third and the fourth centre should be located.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141101	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141104	Thank you. I sometimes think that the rapporteur does a little what she accuses other parties of. In other words, I do not really think the rapporteur is dealing with the specific issue, but rather would like to talk about all sorts of other things. After all, this is a group of citizens who are ill and have committed some very serious crime, and whether they are asylum seekers or ethnic Danes, a large proportion of them will be if what is written is for believers to be forced into judgment, and they will have to have care and companions; they will have to do so, regardless of whether they are asylum seekers or ethnic Danes. If we take the whole asylum talk out of it, then there's a board here that doesn't normally work with this group that has chosen a solution before they've lived apart from an urban community because they don't benefit from being around an urban community and are dangerous if they come out and meet, for example. children where they are now living close to a playground in the middle of a small community where it creates enormous insecurity and in all possible ways is inappropriate professionally. Can the rapporteur not just relate to the situation, that is to say, that sick people who are now being casteball are being moved around and are being placed in a place that simply makes no sense professionally? Can we not take the debate at that level instead of talking about ankles and everything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141209	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141211	I was asked what Enhedslisten thought we should do about the problem. It is okay that the Left disagrees with the Enhedslisten's solution, but our solution is an ankle bracelet, and that is why I stand up here and say that one must disagree with that. I do not think it is a secret that the Enhedslisten and the Left each have their own foreign policy or their own legal policy for that matter. I want to say that I have the expectation that these people will not create more crime, but I do not know, and that is why it is of course a development that we are following closely, just as we are following developments around all the other asylum and exit centres that we have in Denmark. Of course we have to; I do not disagree with that at all. But our solution in the Enhedslisten is that we do not collect many criminals in one place, but distribute them more so that you do not put many people into a small community. In fact, with all due respect, I think that this is a pretty good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141306	Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141308	I'm sorry if I seemed unconscious or something. But it is because this is not a big place and it is a group that has some challenges that means that the solution is not to put an ankle bracelet on them. The solution for this group is to find another place where they can get care and care and where they can be shielded so they don't get in touch with the surrounding community. So the debate is, and you want to place them in the middle of a village right next to the playground in the middle of a parcelhouse district, or whether you want to look at finding something a la what they had up in Brovst, where it worked in the same way as you want to do with all sorts of other target groups who have the same challenges. In other words, because they are asylum seekers, we do not need to place them in a place where we know that problems are going to arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141344	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141346	Well, what we know from Brovst is that this group hasn't caused any more problems, and that's why I don't see why it should cause problems because you move it. Maybe I'm wrong. Well, maybe I'm wrong. Like the rapporteur of the Left, I cannot predict the future either, but I also think that we should just stand on the figures we have from where these people were before and there they did not create problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141412	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141416	Yes, I think we are going to visit, Mrs Rosa Lund, the two places and then see the differences. Then I think Mrs Rosa Lund will have a slightly different attitude to it. And then just said in parentheses: I am very much in favour of ankle chains. We can easily agree on that. Let's finally get it, because then we'll sort it out a little bit more. But I think that Mrs Rosa Lund will have to deal with some of the same things that I have also asked previous rapporteurs about: If Vejle Municipality insists that you do not want to extend the lease, so that these people are then moved in for a shorter period, does Mrs Rosa Lund think it is right to do business if the immigration authorities have the knowledge to move them into Sandvad anyway, so that they should be moved somewhere else as soon as possible? Or would it be better if the authorities found another solution at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141459	I'll be happy to go for a ride, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. I think we could get a lot of that out of many areas. So let's finally go, first of all, I think. Secondly, on the subject of professional judgement, I would like to say that in this case I have full confidence in the authorities' assessment, just as I also have confidence in the authorities' assessments in all sorts of other cases. The authorities are acting according to the law. That is also why we in the Enhedslisten, for example. working to change the law on residence permits, instead of going in and saying that it should be it and it and it should be the one who should be granted a residence permit, because what can you say to say it from the other perspective?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141542	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141542-2	Will Mrs Rosa Lund not promise me that she will make an effort to get the Minister to take that trip, because then we will fulfil some of the intention of the question, at least if we can do so fairly quickly. I will be ready almost 24 hours a day when Mrs Rosa Lund and the Minister can, if necessary. On the second point, in relation to the fact that Mrs Rosa Lund says that the authorities must decide that she has confidence in the decision of the authorities, I would say that I can find examples of the fact that the authorities have previously taken a decision that Mrs Rosa Lund has commented on. Well, it's not exactly out in the hemp, is it, out in Sandvad? But couldn't Mrs Rosa Lund also have a professional assessment of whether it seems right to move these residents into that place if it's only for a shorter time and then they have to be moved again?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141623	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141625	First of all, with regard to the Minister, I would like to say that unfortunately I find that this government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are more often listening to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's party than my party. I'll see if I can convince him, but I doubt it. I think it is perhaps more a matter of some people sitting on the right in the Chamber who can persuade the Minister when it comes to foreign policy. That was one thing. The other thing is in relation to the authorities. I'm thinking they've made a real professional assessment here. I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141702	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. We're going to move on now, and that's for mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117141711	Thank you, sir. President. Then here we are again in another government, yes, I am sorry to use the word, scandals when it comes to dealing with rejected asylum seekers and criminal refugees, etc. etc., which is a constant danger to our local communities around Denmark and where the Minister refuses to do anything about it. We had the whole miser around Kærshovedgård, and the government went to the polls that they would probably solve it, because they would find a place that was much better, and then you come up with the idea of Langeland, but find out that it was not a good idea, and then you choose to do nothing. We have also called the Minister in consultation over and over again, and well to note the Minister promised that there would be a lot of extra police resources down on Langeland, but when they then chose not to move the center anyway, but keep it in Kærshovedård and then spend the extra police resources to create security in Ikast-Brande, it would of course not be at all. Now we are sending a bunch of deep criminals to Sandvad, and the Minister and the rapporteurs say that we do not really know what they have done. I would be surprised if the rapporteur had not read the Ekstrabladet himself. First, the town council in Vejle is offered, the local community in Sandvad is offered false information, because it is said that there are no criminals at all. Then you find out that this is to be next to a playground, and the minister then excuses himself by saying yes, but in North Jutland nothing happened, as it was out in a forest. But placing these people right next to a playground is, on the other hand, a very good idea, because nothing happened in the woods. The arguments are just completely on the moon. I really understand why a great many citizens have come here today, why you have the insecurity that you have, and I understand why you are deeply disappointed that the Minister went to Langeland and looked the citizens in the eye, while the Minister now chooses to sit in the Folketing and not go to Sandvad and take the dialogue that I feel you should take when you are supremely responsible for this. When you listen to the arguments of the support parties, you hear that the SF says that this is blown up, that it is an imaginary problem and that there is nothing to come after, but then I would say that it is about people convicted of murder for crimes of morality. Enhedslisten says: Well, let's just wait and see if these people commit crime on the playground. Honestly, how can you stand here on the parliamentary platform and say that if they commit crime on the playground, we will do it while those who live next to this playground, those whose children play on the playground, sit and listen? I'm having a hard time finding words for it. So I would just like to finish by saying thank you to the blue parties, to the Danish People's Party, to the Left, to the Liberal Alliance, to New Citizens and to Inger Løbberg for very good cooperation. I am glad that we are firmly committed to the fact that, as the Minister responsible for this system, the Minister should go out and meet the citizens, not just at the distance that is here in the Assembly Chamber, but at a citizens' meeting, just as they did at Langeland. Until then, this process should be completely suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142008	There is a brief comment on Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142010	Thank you. I think, sir. Marcus Knuth twists my words rough. What I said wasn't: let's just wait and see and pull on our shoulders. What I said, sir. Marcus Knuth, and what I mean at least, as I have the opportunity to stress now, is that where these people were before, there is no experience or indication that they committed more crime, that they committed crime again. They've committed crime. They've been convicted of that. That's why they're where they are. That's kind of what I said, sir. Marcus Knuth, and I think it would suit the Conservative People's Party to listen to what is being said and not what is being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142052	But I listened very carefully, and what I heard was that the rapporteur began his speech by saying that this was primarily rhetoric and that the rapporteur did not really know what these people had been doing. When I read from the Ekstrabladet article, where it says that there are people who have been convicted of murder here in Denmark, that there are people who have been convicted of crimes of morality, and asked the rapporteur if it is not now before Well if Honestly: you live next to a playground! I think it's hero, all the way on the moon.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142123	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142124	Sir. Marcus Knuth, frankly, I think we would come closer to a solution if we made a little more effort to see if there were no things we agreed on, but Mr. Marcus Knuth is doing exactly the opposite today. I think that is very, very unfortunate, because I think we could actually make some solutions here if we didn't shoot each other things in our shoes. This debate is going to take place; I look forward to seeing what was actually said, because then Mr President. Marcus Knuth and I might just have some coffee and talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142202	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142203	What we really should be talking about is how we stop this, because I think everyone can see that this is a headless decision. So let's stop it. There are so many things that are quite crooked: that these people have to live next to a playground; that Vejle City Council has already decided that in one year they will not extend the contract, so they will have to be moved again. So let's agree to stop this process and then find a better solution instead of just putting our heels in and saying: No, the authorities have made a bad decision. But it is the authorities; we do not want to interfere in that, although the Minister has the highest responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142231	It is absolutely right that everything that is said in the Chamber should be documented. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142243	Asylcenter Sandvad's neighbours must look forward to a new and much heavier type of so-called refugees at the asylum centre in the small town. The Foreigners' and Red Cross' plans to reopen the city's asylum centre with a new resident group mean that the center may get 100 seats filled with particularly heavy refugees • refugees, who are probably rather welfare migrants, migrants who may also have a criminal career on the CV. For the Foreigners' Board it is a group that cannot be accommodated elsewhere and can only function in small places with fixed frames and quiet. They can be very caring and dangerous. But it is also people who have their freedom of movement. If they decide to take a trip to Vejle, they have to. There will be no fences around the Sandvad Center, and there will be no surveillance of those who go in or out of the center. The fact is that in 2020 the center of Sandvad opened as a quarantine center to house migrants infected with covid-19. In September 2021, the Foreign Affairs Agency suddenly announced that the Sandvad Centre would serve as an asylum centre for refugees with special needs. In this context, the Foreign Affairs Agency has sent letters to local politicians and citizens in the area dealing with the target group. But no citizens or politicians in Sandvad are now in doubt. The letters stated that the refugees consisted of mentally vulnerable people, and now it appears that several of the first 13 refugees who later in November move into the centre have been convicted of perilous crime, including murder. How can the authorities believe that they can get away with telling the local people that the difficult group of refugees can easily be placed in the middle of the village? After all, no one in the community in Sandvad is any longer confident that there will be only 13 of the special group asylum seekers in the middle of the village, in the East Jutland idyll. So where does it stop? the residents rightly ask. So the anger and frustration are just below the surface. The asylum centre should be located in the middle of the village next to a villa district, a parish hall, a playground, the children's bike path to school and a bus stop. The Sandvad case highlights what we in New Citizens have said from the outset. The possibility of seeking asylum in Denmark must be stopped now. We should not have migrants traveling across the Mediterranean and across borders in Europe; we should not have traffic that only benefits traffickers and puts European countries under pressure. Aid must be given in the neighbourhood and asylum treatment must only be possible in cooperation with the United Nations. Nationality should not be granted to immigrants and descendants who come from countries based on Islamic culture and who are at the same time over-represented in crime statistics. And last but not least, in relation to Sandvad's situation, all criminal foreigners must be deported consistently after the first sentence. If they do not leave immediately after punitive service, they must be taken into custody until their departure can be arranged. Criminal foreigners should not be allowed to move freely in Danish society, even in Sandvad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142541	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any brief comments, and since I do not see that there are any more rapporteurs asking to speak, it is now the Minister for the conclusion of the debate. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117142556	I would like to start by expressing my thanks for the question debate which may sometimes have gone a little far from the heart of the matter. But all right, we speak freely in here and may well allow ourselves to move a little away from what is the question in the question debate. I would also like to say that no one is perfect. Neither are state authorities, for example. Neither is the Red Cross, and neither am I, and I do not think anyone in this Chamber will argue that their own party or they themselves were. And, of course, sometimes government authorities make bad decisions because they are not perfect. In fact, I very much agree with what has been said in this Chamber: to make a bad decision, but then you have to be an adult to say: that was a wrong decision, we are going to change it. That is why, of course, I have also asked whether there is anything in this process and some of the information that has come out along the way that makes the Foreigners' Authority think it is a wrong decision. Because then it is an honest matter, and I do not think there should be any burning down on the official or officials who have made those decisions, because I think that is actually an honest matter. But what's left of the answer is: The Foreign Affairs Agency thinks this is the right decision. And then it is true that as a minister I can of course sweep that decision aside and say that I do not care about that, and now I make a political decision to do something quite fifth of course. But I do not want to, and I would like to ask some of the blue parties here about something. If they were in my shoes and had a board which had been given a duty in Article 42 of the Aliens Act to provide asylum accommodation, and they said that the professionally correct decision is to place the people in Sandvad, would they say politically: that is very possible, but I have a better idea, and now I put the pin somewhere else on the map? That's fair enough, but I just want to remind you, especially with those polls, which unfortunately are moving in the wrong direction, that this is being recorded. And then a possible future Foreign Minister will be confronted with the question: is it a bad position to drag those decisions into the ministerial table? Because that's fair enough if it's the bourgeois position, but that's not how I think we should rule our country. I think it is true what the Constitution says; that we have legislative, executive and judicial power. And I believe that what is contained in the Aliens Act is right, namely that the Foreigners' Board ensures that asylum accommodation is provided. My own personal mentality is always to take a step forward and go into the debate and meet the people it concerns, take things on me, discuss things openly and freely with everyone. This may also be how I started my first time as Minister for Foreign Affairs: if someone thought it was wrong that they had been refused family reunification and they stopped me out at the Ishøj Centre, I would say: Write me an email, and we'll look at it. But it can't work that way. Today I have gradually found out that the best answer is: Write to the Foreigners' Board if you don't think they've made the right decision. Otherwise, you're gonna have to appeal against that decision. It's not something I'm going to go into as a minister. Because we cannot have such a Bazaar society, where it is about who knows which politicians and then other decisions are taken by state authorities. So I think we in this Chamber and with us I mean as members of Parliament, because I also have to concentrate on making good legislation. And if we disagree with what the legislation says, for example. Paragraph 42 of the Aliens Act, it is a perfectly fair matter. In other words, if you think it should be a decision that is taken in the Chamber, you can just make that proposal and then we will discuss it. I would recommend that we vote against it, because I do not think this is the right way to address the issue. And I don't think it's a follow-up to any of that either, sir. Rasmus Stoklund said earlier • if someone is denied asylum or refusal of family reunification or anything else. There I am quite sure that some of you have also heard me say in the past that we must respect the professional assessments made by the independent authorities we have. At least that's what I signed when I became a member of the Danish Parliament in 2015, and that's how I administer the law that changing Red and Blue Foreign Ministers have otherwise supported, i.e. this famous section 42. Let these be my concluding remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143001	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143005	Thank you. The Minister said before that we don't really know what these people have been doing. Now we can tell the Minister that it is people who have been convicted of murder and sexual crimes, and they have to live next to a kindergarten. But the Minister maintains that this is an authority decision and that is why the Minister will not interfere, even though the Minister actually acknowledges that this is a rather bad decision. So if the decision is really so bad that sex offenders have to live next to a playground, does the Minister not believe that the Minister has a responsibility to intervene and try to stop it here or at least put it on hold until a better solution has been found?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143042	Thank you for the question. But it is now not true when Marcus Knuth says that I have acknowledged that this is a bad decision. I have said in general terms that all people make mistakes, including state authorities, but I do not think this is a mistake. I think there's been a process that makes it natural to ask the board if there's anything in this process, some of the new information that's come out that makes you want to change this decision. And there isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143112	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143113	Okay, so the minister doesn't think it's a bad decision to take people convicted of murder and sexual crimes and house them right next to a playground? I understand if the insecurity of those who live in the town, those who live in Sandvad and who have their children playing in that playground is so great that you cannot even describe it, and I understand that they have come all the way here. But can the Minister not explain to me if the Minister nevertheless thinks that this is not a bad decision, why the Minister himself does not go to Sandvad and take a meeting with these citizens and explain to them why this is actually a really, really good decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143145	I'm not here to tell you whether it's a bad decision or a good one. I relate to the fact that the Foreign Affairs Agency has the power to make these decisions and that they have made them, and of course they have my full support for that. If they make another decision tomorrow, they will also have my full support for it, because I trust that they will do their job properly. Why don't I go to Sandvad myself? As I said before, my own mentality is always to confront everything directly and openly with an open forehead. I would just like to say here that this is not the way I think we as ministers should function. I believe that those who make the decisions are responsible for the decisions. In this case, it is the Foreigners' Authority that has made a decision, and therefore it is they who show that they are responsible for the decision, are running for citizens' meetings as they have done, reaching out to the local community, and I would also urge the local community to continue the dialogue that is with the Foreigners' Board and the Red Cross. Because I believe that with a better dialogue than there has been so far, a close dialogue, a high level of information, as high as it can now be in the field of personal data protection and something like this can ensure that this will work properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143248	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143249	Thank you, President. I understand from the Minister that there has still been so much fuss that the Minister has just asked the officials who have made the decision whether they think it is a proper decision they have taken. And they have returned to the Minister and have said that yes, they think that the decision they have taken in the past is a correct one. Then I'll just have to dive into what the Minister has asked. Has the Minister asked his system if, if these people are at center Sandvad for less than a year, because the municipality cancels the lease, then is still the professionally correct decision seen by the authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143324	In practice, it is not the case that I ask the specific official who has made the decision. I'm not even sure I know who it is. But I ask you in the department, who makes sure to ask the Foreigners' Board if there is anything in the course that has been that makes you think that this decision should be changed. And I would also like to say here, while everyone is listening to it, that I think it is an honest matter to make a mistake, that if you make a mistake, you are just grown up enough to stand by it, and that is also my signal that I would like to send to all officials in the whole of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' system, so that it is an honest matter to make a mistake and that you should not become stubborn. But when people look at it again and say they think it's the right decision professionally, I don't want to sweep it off the table. Then I will lean on it and back up that decision, and of the much information that has come out in this course, one of them is, at least according to what I can read in the media, that Vejle Municipality is not considering extending the contract when it expires. It's one of a lot of information that's come out in this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143428	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143429	Well, that's because, when we are now told that it is a kind of vulnerable resident who needs special people around him, and we also know that it may have been a little difficult to get and get the staff to help these people in their daily lives, well then it has to be a difference whether you set this up for a number of years or you really have to recognise that you are setting it up for something similar to one year, and then you have to repeat the whole exercise somewhere else and place these residents and look up positions and all these devices that are needed to house these residents. Therefore: Will the Minister ask his system specifically in relation to whether it, if Vejle Municipality again makes it clear they think that they have done so that they are not going to extend this lease, then still away is a professionally correct decision to place these residents in Sandvad?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143521	Thank you for a precise and relevant question. I suppose that it will continue to be part of the decision-making framework, everything that has come out of new information, but when questions are asked so specifically and so concretely, I would, of course, like to speak for Prince Canute, or whatever it is called, and it should not be misunderstood, in other words, for safety reasons, ask whether there is nothing in the specific information that makes the Foreign Affairs Council think that a different decision should be taken. I would like to ask that, and I would like to return with it to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143553	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143556	Thank you for that, and it's nice to hear that there might be a little bit of movement here. Another thing that was enlightened at the citizens' meeting, where the minister was not there, was that the Foreigners' Board had forgotten to assess whether the location was suitable to accommodate this target group before moving them from the location where they lived far from where other people live until they were placed in the middle of a village. If the information we received at that meeting is available to believers, will the Minister ensure that an analysis is made of some people who know about this target group, whether it is actually appropriate to place them in the middle of a parcel house district right up a playground before proceeding with this move?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143637	I think maybe I should start by saying that I am not sure that the Foreigners' Board has the same view of what was exactly said at the citizens' meeting as Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson has. I would also like to say that it is not entirely unfamiliar for the Foreign Affairs Agency to have to accommodate this group. Well, this is a task that the Foreigners' Agency has had for many years and has had one special operator to handle and now wants another operator and has pointed to the Red Cross as the right operator, because the Red Cross has experience in handling some of those who have special care and care needs. This requires, for example: something special to be able to deal with people with dementia or with trauma or with physical diseases. And that is why, as I said in my opening speech, it is quite a significant staff rating that should be for this group.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143743	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143743-2	So I would like to ask: does the Minister really not get the impression that this is an area of right now there are three asylum centres, and in the past there have been four where there have been many different citizens' groups, unaccompanied young people with problems that have been dealt with without a knuckle? You actually have quite a sense of receiving refugees, you have a community that has been really good for refugees, volunteers are guaranteed among the visitors up here. Doesn't it make the impression that some people who are actually so close and have had so much experience with this say that this is all wrong, stop, minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143814	Yes, it makes an impression, also because what I am told, and I have been told both as a minister, but I would also say as rapporteur before the elections that the asylum centres located in Jelling, Sandvad and Thyregod are asylum centres with which the Immigration Authority is very, very satisfied, and we have very low asylum rates at the moment, so we have cut away a great many asylum centres. But there's a reason why these three just have been kept, and that's because there's very good experience, including very good experiences with local communities. That's what I'm told. Therefore: Yes, it makes an impression, and therefore it has also been important for me to be sure that this is something that the Foreigners' Board considers to be the right decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143900	Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143901	Thank you. Now we have discussed what kind of people are to be accommodated, and we do not seem to have full clarity about that. But if we assume that it is true that they are criminals, among other things. Isn't it a problem for the minister to be accommodated in the middle of a small town?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117143920	I do not want to assume everything, and it is important to me that I neither confirm nor disprove what specific persons' criminal record says. So it's gonna be in broad terms, I can describe this target group as a target group with care and care needs. Now I'm trying to read out the fine papers I get that can be caused by e.g. problem of abuse, dementia, trauma or physical or mental illness. And also that there may be people in the group of carers who have been convicted of crime. I can neither confirm nor deny it for the sake that no authority, even a minister, can tell anything about the criminal record of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117144008	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117144009	[Sound emission]. If we are talking about criminals and murders, would the Minister consider this a problem? We know that 50%. criminals convicted of expulsion are doing crime again. It may be that they have not done so if they have lived a long distance from settlements in the past, but now that they are being moved into a city, it may be that it changes. Well, distance clearly has a meaning. I myself lived in a town where there was an exit center, and crime took place close to where it was located. It didn't quite get over to me because I lived 10 kilometers away. So distance to settlement clearly means something.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117144054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117144055	Thank you for the question. I was trying to say I don't want to assume anything. However, I can perhaps put it in another way, where I come a little closer to answering the question: to the extent that there are people who the authorities consider there is a need for some sort of supervision, it is of course handled, whether it is on a social psychiatric offer, whether it is in a nursing home or wherever it is. It is, of course, the case that if the authorities consider that there is no special relationship to be watched, then there will be no special watch. But if there is something to be watched, they will, of course, keep an eye on it. This is also the case in the asylum system, and it is not just about Kærshovedgård. It may also be at other addresses in the asylum system, where for example. The police have a special task.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117144146	There are no more questions, so we thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Thank you very much). Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to close the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117144204	Thank you, President. I would like to say that, in any case, I think it has been good that we have had this debate. Although we may not have received the answers that we want, we have clarified an issue that is relevant to a great many Danes. It is true that this is true, but in this context for some very specific people in a small village called Sandvad. I think it has been clear that there are a large number of parties in here who actually want to take things and the insecurity that is local. We now miss the fact that something is actually being done in practice. I noted that the Minister said that he would specifically ask his system whether it is still a real decision, in terms of professional terms, to move these residents to Center Sandvad if one considers that the municipality will cancel the lease in one year's time. Well, when it's too short a time, if you make so much effort to move these residents to Sandvad, is it still professionally a real decision? I do not know whether the Minister will actually give me a nod on the fact that, of course, you will not move the residents to Center Sandvad until you have that overview; it makes no sense; so you are really waiting to move these residents physically until there is that overview and we have the possibility that we can discuss it. And I still believe that the Minister should engage himself in this. I would like to say that the dialogue and communication between the immigration authorities and then the municipality and the local community has therefore not been based on the right basis. In other words, it has been stressed several times that there is no criminal background to Centre Sandvad, and then it is no use saying that you have been completely open all the way. This has not been the case, and I believe that the immigration authorities have actually recognised that the dialogue that has taken place has not been very good, and that is why I think there is something to repair. That is why I would just like to say to those parties, the government and its support parties that have now submitted a proposal for adoption, which will be adopted by the majority, so that it will be adopted, and I assume that it is tomorrow that we will be voting on the text of the adoption, which will then be adopted: the Parliament stresses the importance of the authorities in all cases facilitating a good dialogue with the citizens concerned. And if we can put it as a basis and we, that is, we, who have also been close to this process; and otherwise there are quite a lot of truthwitnesses up here in the gallery... that text of adoption has not been fulfilled at this time in relation to the fact that in all cases a good dialogue with the citizens concerned should be facilitated. This has not been achieved at this stage. That is why I think that the Minister, when the authorities have not secured it, has a political responsibility to ensure that this happens. This can happen in one way, I believe, and this is what the proposal for adoption we have put forward is about: we are instructing the Minister to suspend the relocation of new residents to the asylum centre in Sandvad and to engage in a dialogue with local citizens to ensure that the security of the community can be restored. Because if the authorities have not secured the adequate dialogue to ensure security, then I think it is a political responsibility. I think Mrs Lund and others might think so too, so it is a political responsibility. Then we have to take responsibility. The Minister must assume responsibility and move out himself and engage in that discussion and dialogue with the citizens concerned. The Minister and the government do that in all sorts of other contexts, and then we should do it here too. That is my strong appeal, even if we do not get our proposal for adoption adopted... there will be another amendment which says that there must be this dialogue and that at least it must be ensured before these citizens move in; therefore, my strong call to the Minister. I live in the area over there, and I am happy to give coffee if the Minister needs to relax after he has talked to the citizens concerned; so there is shelter in Thyregod, and he also referred to the fact that there is a centre there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117144613	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. There doesn't seem to be. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday 18 November 2021. As the question has been closed and the next item on the agenda does not start until 1 p.m. I shall now adjourn the sitting. As I said, we will resume the sitting at 1 p.m. 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150002	The sitting is resumed. The first minister to be present is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that is a question that has been asked by Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Karsten Hønge, SF,
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150022	What does the Foreign Minister think about the Israeli Ministry of Defence's military order to prevent human rights organisations which Denmark has actively supported from carrying out their work on improving the human rights situation in the Palestinian territories?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150039	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150040	Thank you. On 22 October this year, Israel's Minister for Defence announced the designing of six Palestinian civil society organisations as terrorist organisations in Israel. This happened with reference to the fact that, according to Israel, the organisations are part of the PFLP. The organizations themselves have rejected the charges. The EU Foreign Representative, Borrell, has stressed through his spokesman that the accusations must be taken seriously and that the EU will therefore engage with the Israeli authorities in order to clarify the background. At the same time, the European Union has recalled that previous similar allegations by Israel about the misuse of EU funds to Palestinian civil society organisations have not been documented. Finally, the European Union has stressed the important importance of civil society organisations in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I very much agree with the European Union's statements, including the emphasis on the importance of a well-functioning civil society, and for the same reason, for a number of years, Denmark has supported both Israeli and Palestinian civil society organisations under successive governments. It is not new that the Israeli side has been constantly critical of international support for a number of Palestinian civil society organisations, but it is new that these are now genuine terrorist designs. Obviously, the government takes designing seriously. We do so, not least because Denmark supports two of the organisations mentioned here, and in the light of the Israeli decision I have most recently raised the matter with my Israeli Foreign Minister's colleague and asked for documentation on the terrorist charges, which we are now awaiting. Finally, I would like to stress that in this matter we are in close dialogue both with the European Union and also with other donors, and that we are working together to shed light on the terrorist design and its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150237	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150238	It is very good that the Minister has taken it up with his Israeli colleague. What was the answer to that? In other words, has Israel provided any evidence that these six organisations can be seen as terrorist organisations, or does the Minister consider that this is again an example of Israel using it as a form of shield to simply dismiss criticism and to make life miserable for the private Palestinians? So the one question here is: did the Israeli Foreign Minister give any hints of where the evidence would lie, and if he did not do so in the conversation with the Foreign Minister, is there any other way that Israel will be able to provide evidence at some point? Here, too, as a result of the question whether the Minister can answer how to address this identification of many human rights organisations as terrorist organisations and the consequences for the members of these organisations. Here too, there is the Israeli interpretation of international law in particular, which considers terrorists to be unlawful combatants, thus depriving them of the protection of international law, which lies around the praises of war status and associated general rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150421	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge for these very relevant questions. As I said, I raised the whole issue of Israel's terrorist design here with my Israeli Foreign Minister colleague, and I also know that the European Union and other donors have requested evidence from Israel about these terrorist accusations, which are serious. We're waiting at the moment. further information in the case, so we have nothing further there. In relation to the consequences of what this terrorist design will have in practice, we are, in fact, also with... I can see from the President I cannot answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150502	Depends on how long it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150503	We are looking at this with our partners and other donor countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150510	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150512	But I would certainly like to hear the Foreign Minister's confirmation that the Danish Government continues to support the human rights organisations involved here and whether, in the event of this military order having consequences for the organisations' reception of contributions, he will actively work to reduce the damage.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150530	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150531	We regard support for civil society organisations working in Palestine, as I mentioned, as an important part of the peace efforts. We have been doing this for many years, and changing governments have supported them, but of course this must be done on a sound basis and, as I said at the outset, we obviously take these Israeli terrorist designs seriously. It is so important to clarify what is up and down in the accusations and to clarify the consequences so that we can continue to support them. So that's some of what we're looking at at at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150604	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150605	However, it is absolutely essential for these human rights organisations to be able to continue their work. So there is a risk that the Danish Government will be caught up in a trap set up by the Israeli Government by saying that they are terrorist organisations here. That is why it is important for the Foreign Minister to say now: no, in a Danish context these are not terrorist organisations and we continue to support them because they are human rights organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150631	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150632	Thank you. I think it is very important, when there are such serious accusations about terrorist designing of certain organisations, that we also ask for information on the basis of which it is being done and get some proof of it, and that is the process we are currently doing. We take both the accusations very seriously, but we also take the work of supporting Palestinian civil society organisations very seriously. It is an important part of the whole basis for creating the peace process in Israel-Palestine that you support civil society, so that is what changing Danish governments have done and as other donor countries and the EU do. So it is important that we can continue that work. So that's where we're standing right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150714	Thank you. That was the end of the first question. The next question has also been put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs by Mr Delors. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150725	What does the Foreign Minister think about the recent developments in the West Bank, where, according to an article in the Washington Post, the Israeli military is deploying a monitoring system of Palestinians who are so intrusive that, in addition to influencing the possibility of a more peaceful coexistence, it is supposedly contrary to the resolution of the European Parliament to ban the political use of facial recognition technology?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150747	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150748	Thank you. First of all, let me state that I fundamentally share the concern of the questioner about the human rights situation in the West Bank. We have recently witnessed increasing violence by Israeli settlers against civilian Palestinians, the postponement of Palestinians from their homes, the demolition of Palestinian buildings and plans for expansion of settlements, and there is no doubt that this has a negative impact on the possibility of peaceful coexistence. Respect for human rights in the West Bank in general cannot, it can be said, be isolated to the Israeli occupying power alone. Obviously, Palestinian self-government also has a responsibility to guarantee the rights of the Palestinians. I have taken note of the article in The Washington Post on the use by the Israeli military of surveillance and facial recognition to the Palestinians. The article was based on testimony given by former Israeli soldiers to the organisation Breaking the Silence, which Denmark has supported for several years. If the allegations are correct, this is an indication of a worrying development. It is my general view that we should be very careful about how we use new technologies as artificial intelligence. First of all, we must work to ensure that new technologies contribute to supporting and strengthening democracy and human rights rather than undermining democracy and human rights. Moreover, the general resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 6 October of this year, to which the honourable Member also refers, also flies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150915	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117150916	But this is actually pretty wild. I mean, Israel is a country with which Denmark works. Israel is a country which always markets itself as a democratic state, as it is in relation to other Middle Eastern states, but it is perhaps a rather boring standard to oppose it. How can we view Israel as a democratic state, and how can we use all the cooperation relations we have to influence a country that we see as a friendly country, when we see reports from Israeli soldiers who report that it has long been their task to take pictures of civilians and that they have even held competitions about which division could take the most pictures, including of children, and does the Minister agree that this maneuver is extremely damaging to the peace process between Israel and Palestine? I would also like to ask the Minister how important it can be that Israel's use of surveillance deprives the Palestinians of their access to ordinary privacy and that this manoeuvre can further destabilise Israeli-Palestinian relations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151043	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151044	First of all, I agree that Israel is a democratic state in a Middle East where there are not a great many democratic states. In fact, Denmark has good and close cooperation with Israel, and it concerns a wide range of areas: trade, research and innovation. The close cooperation and dialogue that we have is of course also used to raise our concerns with regard to the human rights situation in the occupied Palestinian territories, and we do the same with regard to Palestinian self-government, for example, with regard to the dialogue we have there. to encourage the Palestinians to be allowed to go to elections, in other words to hold elections which have not been held for many years on the Palestinian side. We also believe in general terms that when we talk about the use of new technology and artificial intelligence, this must be done within the framework of criminal law, police and judicial authorities...
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151146	Now it's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151147	But it is now happening in a democracy and in a country with which Denmark has friendly relations, but how can one actually claim to have a democracy when using methods that we would say belong in Russia or China, perhaps in particular? It is, of course, absolutely dramatic that ordinary people should be deprived of their right to privacy in this way, and that is why it is, along with what we have talked about before, that human rights organisations are simply being branded as terrorist organisations, a part of destabilising relations between the two peoples and the two nations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151227	Basically, I believe that new technologies offer an enormous opportunity to create both security and protection, including artificial intelligence, if they are used in the right way, to protect our society. It can also give more people access to information and to have their voice heard, etc. This is needed, not least in that part of the world. Conversely, we must ensure that the shadow pages of digital technologies are not used for mass monitoring and to restrict democracy or civil society's room for manoeuvre. So that is the balance that needs to be struck. And yes, Denmark will actually host a conference tomorrow, Tech for Democracy, where we want to promote the positive tech agenda on democracy and human rights and shield us from autocrats and other actors, terrorist organisations that use technology to undermine our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151317	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151318	However, I am a little disappointed with the Foreign Minister's reply, because the praise for new technology is fine, but I am sure that the foreign minister's language would be different if it were China or Russia that we were talking about and where we are also operating in these monitoring technologies where people can be identified. This is about Israel, which is why it is perhaps even more important for the Foreign Minister to stand up to Israel in the face of a country with which we are actually friendly and to say that this is a violation of the Palestinians' privacy and that this is a deterioration in relations between the two peoples.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151352	So, basically, I think it is important to say in that discussion that one is a democracy, such as one. We have seen fear and terrorist acts, it is natural that we protect ourselves and also use modern technology for example. Monitoring. What is important is that this should be done within the framework of the rule of law. And it is true that there are autocratic systems in the world that abuse technology, which is not the rule of law in a democratic sense, and which use it to monitor and suppress their peoples, and that, of course, is something we must combat all that we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151424	Then we say thank you to the Secretary of State and to Mr. Karsten Hønge. That was the end of the second question. The next question has been put to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151441	Thank you, President. Does the Minister believe that it is possible that the conventions, including the European Convention on Human Rights, are intended to ensure that convicted paedophiles and rapists have the right to see their victims?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151500	Thank you for the floor. As you know, the question was raised following on from my written reply last week to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 64 of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, which dealt with a specific judgment of the court in Roskilde, where a foreign national was given a warning on the issue of expulsion. The judgment has been appealed to the High Court and, as the case is still pending in this way, I do not think it is right, for reasons of principle, to comment on the specific case. This is because, as you know, we in Denmark have an executive, a legislative and a judicial power, and I believe that as a representative of the executive, we should be reluctant to comment on cases by the judicial authority, precisely in this case, a case pending before the courts. Having said that, there should be no doubt that it is my general view that child abuse is one of the most vile crimes, there is a crime that we should not, of course, tolerate, and that is why the government has also put forward a large number of proposals to deal with paedophiles. Among other things: We are calling for the possibility of taking the passport away from paedophiles and increasing the penalty. As you know, when it comes to the issue of expulsion and the importance of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, it is up to the courts to decide on the issue in specific criminal proceedings. And when the courts have to decide on that, according to the Aliens Act, where there is a legal basis for the conviction of a criminal offence, expulsion must take place unless expulsion is certain to be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. In other words, Danish legislation means that the Court must make full use of the opportunity to demonstrate within the framework of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151652	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151654	Now it is the case that in the oral Question Time one can ask about the Minister's position. The Minister has explained the law here, but I do not suppose that is his position. So I shall actually consider the question unanswered. When I know the Minister for Justice, I know that he can of course have neither his conscience nor his CV, and that is why I hope that we will come to what his position really is. For what I am asking is: can it really be that the European Convention on Human Rights is what allows a foreigner or a Dane to stay in Denmark for that matter, that is to say that a person convicted of sexual abuse and violence against his children, by virtue of Article 8 of the Convention, on the grounds that he should be with his children? That is what is so incredibly offensive to the right-of-law conscience, and that is what we are dealing with here today. As far as I remember, Paragraph 64 of the Constitution states that the courts in their work must comply with the law. We could therefore change the law, and we do so relatively often. One could, for example: If a foreigner is convicted of a paedophile assault on his children, then Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights on the Protection of Family Life cannot be the reason why he cannot be expelled. It is in itself disgraceful and I think that it turns out in most people when you are told that the Convention on Human Rights is a legal instrument which the Folketing has put over the law on foreigners and which therefore has the function here that in cases where children have been sexually abused by their father, that father must not be expelled from Denmark because he must be allowed to continue to be with his children. It then breaks with every goodness and every understanding of reasonableness, and that is what I ask the Minister of Justice to do. Can it be? That is what the question says. I did not ask for a statement on Danish legal status.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151852	No, but regardless of the fact that the question was not a rejection of the legal crinkle hooks, it is still the case that as a minister I am bound by the constitution and should not cross the border with the judiciary. And if, when there is a case pending before a court which has now been appealed to the Court of Justice, I say what I think it should be, then there is a potential risk that the court will actually take into account what I have said, thereby placing false weights in the scales of justice. And that's why I have to answer as I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151934	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117151935	No, again, the minister misses. Fortunately, we get a third time, and maybe it'll all be good times three. I have not asked the Minister today to comment on the judgment in question. I have asked the Minister to deal with this, and I quote myself 'when you can do so, it is a privilege: can it be that the conventions, including the Convention on Human Rights, are intended to ensure that convicted paedophiles and rapists have the right to see their victims? Quote out. That's what I'm asking. And that is where the Minister could just say: no, that cannot be the case, so we are now making an addition to the Aliens Act and ensuring that Article 6 of the Convention on Human Rights does not, of course, apply to the relationship between paedophiles and their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152013	It's Article 8, but let it go. What is the matter is that, no matter how generally it is formulated, this question is, of course, raised against the specific case, which is what is underlying it, is, of course, a discussion which we have also had sometimes, namely to what extent it is in Denmark's interest to honour the international commitments we have undertaken and to what extent it would be appropriate for us to set ourselves freer. And there we have basically different views on what is in the interests of a small country. My view is that basically we have an interest in keeping within the international rules of the game that apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152054	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152055	It's true. I am well aware of the difference of opinion between us, but then the Minister will have to stand up for his point of view. That is why I am now asking, because I do not know whether this is the third or the fourth time: can it be? Does the Minister not, like me, find it morally objectionable that the convention he does not wish to make reservations about, here, at least in the court of the city, has secured a legal position which would mean that a paedophile sentenced father of 34 years of age who has abused his children under 12 years of age cannot be expelled on the grounds that he is entitled to be with his children? Can it be? The Minister must be able to say that. There is no human being other than the minister in this country who will not say: no, that cannot be true.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152146	But the phrase inserted at least in the city court merely underlines the complexity of the case. If we then try to generalise at all, I think there is reason to note that the government has just put forward proposals to tighten the rules against those convicted of paedophilia. This is true, for example. I also know that I share with the author's party and the legal rapporteur for the party of the questioner, but also to increase the penalty for sexual abuse committed against children, a ban on these absolutely terrible child sex puppets, which, unfortunately, can be bought, a ban on leaving to... reach, sorry, time has passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152232	Yeah, time's ticking. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. The next question has been put to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152247	Thank you very much. The question is as follows: Will the Minister indicate whether the government still believes that freedom of expression is under pressure, and does the Government intend to continue to call Parliament's parties for talks on freedom of expression, as the Prime Minister promised in the Parliament Hall on 11 May 2021, and will the Minister of Justice explain why this has not yet happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152323	Thank you for the question. Let me make it clear straight away: it is a problem and totally unacceptable that some people are using violence and threats to try to restrict our freedom of expression. We cannot and must not accept that. Looking back at the terrible terrorist attack last autumn on the French schoolteacher Samuel Paty, who had shown Mohammed drawings in his teaching, it is quite clear what is at stake. Freedom of expression is a fundamental value of a democratic society. This also applies if a teacher considers that it is relevant to see the Mohammed drawings in connection with the teaching of democracy and freedoms, where the Muhammad crisis as an important event in Danish history can be included. And it is essential for the democratic development of society that citizens have the opportunity to express themselves without fearing that they will be met by threats and abuses because of their participation in the public debate. That is why the government has also recently tabled a bill proposing to double the penalty for threats arising from legal statements made by the wrongdoer or to prevent the wrongdoers from using their freedom of expression, that is, exactly what we are talking about here. The question of self-censorship has a character in which, on the part of the government, we believe that there should be a thorough discussion of what we should do. There are no simple answers to the major challenges that religious fundamentalism poses to too many places in the world today, and this also applies in Denmark. Therefore, in the new year, to answer the question precisely, I will call on all parties of the Folketing to discuss how we deal with self-censorship. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152505	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152506	Thank you. The question has been asked because we just had a parliamentary debate a few months ago, in May, when we had quite basically discussed these major challenges for our freedom of expression in Denmark, when you repeatedly experience that you cannot be allowed to say what you mean without being affected by sanctions and threats, etc. I am glad that the Minister has not forgotten the Prime Minister's promise there from 11 May 2021. I also know that in the government's calendars there are many things around, among other things. I understand that there have just been municipal elections which, I believe, have taken some time, at least in the case of some ministers, but that being said, it is a long time since we had May. Now we have November, and now the Minister says today that in the new year it will be discussed here, but I should like to say that there are, after all, people who get their lives ruined because they cannot be allowed to use their freedom of expression, as we have a long tradition in Denmark that we can. We also have a constitution that says that you have freedom of expression. It happens every day that you are afraid to say what you think because you are threatened by Islamists or others who will not allow you to express yourself in the way you want. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether he is going to hurry a little more and whether we can expect something to happen quickly from the government, because when you promise things in a place like the Parliamentary Chamber, the table will probably catch up, because you have to mate what you promise to the Folketing. Then I would also like to ask whether the Minister recognises that the increasing Islamisation we are seeing around our society is one of the main reasons why our freedom of expression is threatened today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152704	First of all, I would like to thank you for recognising the pressure of work that exists, I think that applies to all governments and to the Folketing. We are sitting on the questioner ourselves, and I am in negotiations on various points already now, and there is enough to fill the day with. That is the one thing I would like to say. The second point I would like to make is that it is not the case that nothing has happened. We have in fact put forward a proposal in which, as I mentioned earlier, we propose to double the penalty for threats aimed at preventing the wrong person from using his freedom of expression. So that's why we're gonna get a little bit out of the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152748	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152749	I recognize that, too. It is good that we are moving in that direction. It must also be said that there are people who are afraid to report what they are exposed to at all. There are people who are afraid to express themselves at all about what they have been subjected to. Now we have a school teacher who is, moreover, a member of the Danish People's Party who simply has to stop doing her job because she is threatened and because she is set aside, also by colleagues, because she has wanted to teach the Mohammed drawings. You just have to say that that is far too far out. Our society has gone in a completely wrong direction if you are not allowed to teach and tell about fundamental things about our Danish history, which the schoolchildren would like to learn about. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152837	I think it would be natural for the issue of using the Mohammed drawings in teaching to form part of the discussions we should have in connection with the wider censorship. But I also think it is fair to refer specifically to the Minister for Children and Education, who may even accompany me in the negotiations when we have talked about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152913	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117152915	Yes, and we would be happy to do so in a moment when we have questions for the Minister's colleague. I'd like to turn to Facebook. After all, it is a huge challenge for our society that when it comes to something that very many people use even people who have come up a little in age, we are on Facebook nowadays, and it is also the Minister who unfortunately finds that there are people who do not dare to use the freedom of expression that also lies in the fact that one can express oneself in such a media. I would like to know whether the Minister agrees that we have a problem if these media platforms are unfairly censoring statements or writings from citizens of Denmark who are actually just using their freedom of expression. So what I would like to hear is: Will the government sanction Facebook when this platform shuts the mouths of ordinary Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153017	It was a complex question to raise in a follow-up question, I would say. This is a discussion which we have taken up a little bit, and it is a discussion which points two ways forward. On one side there is the discussion that we have that, if something is being looked up on, for example. social media that are illegal, for example. a threat or otherwise, then must be an obligation for the medium to remove it within a relatively short period of time, if it is clearly illegal, and within a slightly longer period, if that is just illegal, if I may say so. On the other hand, there is the need for freedom of expression, that is to say, how much one has the right to speak out on social media.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153059	Thank you. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup and the Minister of Justice. That was the end of Question 4. The next question has been put to the Minister for Children and Education by Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153118	Thank you. My question to the Minister is this: how will the Minister ensure that both the AU contribution and the Veu contribution are properly budgeted in future, so that companies do not experience large fluctuations in their financial payments and so that the AUB does not go from a saving of 4.6 billion? kr. due to systematic overpayments from companies to a deficit of 2.6 billion. kr. as a result of a miscalculation of the Ministry of Children and Education?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153153	Now it was crystal clear, and indeed one of the main demands of the Danish Employers' Association, that we had a flexible AU, that is to say an AUB, where there would not be exactly and it would also be against the tripartite agreement that was subsequently concluded, because there we actually agreed to comply with the employers' demands for flexibility in the AUB, because before it had had a build-up of funds in the AUB system, and that is of course not appropriate. So the flexible AUB was a clear employer requirement, and we chose to meet that, because it was important for employers that it followed ups and downs in relation to apprentices. Then I would say that when it was that the figures landed as they did, we should remember that we were in a situation where the number of apprenticeships fell by 34 per cent. 49 per cent and 49 per cent. in March and April respectively in 2020 during the corona crisis. There we, together with the social partners, chose to react pronto and, by the way, with a broad majority behind us in the Folketing on the tripartite agreement. If we had not done so, it would be my clear conviction that then it would have continued with the result that we had lost at least a year of young people in relation to apprenticeships at a time when we already lack skilled labour. So disaster for young people, disaster for the economy. Instead, overall in the second half of 2007 it actually succeeded in getting 25% done. more training agreements than before the coronate, i.e. in 2019. In other words, we completely reversed developments and actually came out with more training agreements, more apprenticeships than there have been in the past. And that means that the reason why we are now in a situation where there is an extra bill, so to speak, is simply that it went very well. For the huge benefit of the business community, a lot of young people were hired in extra. Thank you very much to the employers who delivered the effort and that is why the bill is there. They wanted a flexible system that followed ups and downs, and then they just got an ups and fortunately for it. That's why we're in that situation about that money.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153411	Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153412	Thank you. I am not quite sure that I will get the answer to the question. So, there was this earlier in the spring, and there was the Left and Conservatives who also again pointed out that there was an excessive payment and an accumulation of 4.6 billion. Then there has been corona that is right and the companies were also helped with pay compensation, so you made sure that you didn't lose internships. We have supported that too. But even if it is not said that it is a miscalculation or a calculation error, but that it is actually due to the flexibility that companies want, it is nevertheless such a rather surprising result that it is 60%. It's bigger than what you expected. Did the Minister perhaps expect that by 2020 there would be only half as many apprenticeships?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153502	Yeah, or actually even fewer. Yeah, we bled out apprenticeships, we bled out apprenticeships when the corona hit. This means that the figure that was put in was both an expression of a desire and an estimate so to speak, and then things went very much better, that is to say much better; and fortunately for that, for business is crying out for skilled labour. I didn't have the guts to dream that things were going so well. And I think that if someone had set up the scenario, that there is a global pandemic, that we are crashing apprenticeships, and if it could be done to reverse it in a way, then we did not just get up to the level, but actually went 25%. above level, people would have said: Dream on, that's never gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153545	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153546	Thank you. I do not know who people are, but I think that if you had asked the companies a little more, you might have got a little more clarity about what the forecasts will be. So, what we are a little surprised about is that this is not, as it were, the first time there is, one cannot say root, but at least a great deal of confusion about the revenue and expenditure of the AUB. In the past, there has been this overcharge of between 1 and 1.5 billion. kr. Too much for companies. Now we are calling for 2.6 billion. kr. It is true that over three years, but it is an unforeseen extra bill. Right now, many companies also have costs for materials, for energy and for other things. They've got enough to do. For the company, this means that there is an uncertainty as to how much they have to pay, both in AUB and veu. So when you do not know your cost level, it is also a little difficult to create internships. How does the Minister think that it will be somewhat more stable for businesses in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153640	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153641	Well, I certainly don't think it can be. Because it has been a clear wish of companies that they should not do so. Businesses have wanted the flexibility that is expressed by sometimes paying more and sometimes paying less. That was number one, the most important demand from the employers in these negotiations. Then the rapporteur says that we could have asked companies, because then we would probably have had a better estimate. Well, it was the companies we negotiated with. So the estimate that has been made and what is the basis for that calculation is something we have been debating. After all, this is a tripartite agreement, which means that we have been sitting in that room with each other, the social partners and the government, and for that reason lies the amount which turned out to be much lower, because none of us in our wildest imagination had dared to hope that it went as well as it did.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153728	Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153729	Now I have not been sitting in the same premises as the Minister, so I cannot say exactly what has happened. It's just interesting that when I talk to employers from the other side, it's that they have this picture that things go so much up and down they have to pay too much, and then it has to be demanded back in. And they have also been able to expect that when you opened up again after corona, the economy would really get off the ground, even when you really focus on having more internships and more on vocational training. So it's not something that's happened overnight.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153803	If it is the case that the employer side has changed its position and no longer wants a flexible system, which was their main requirement in the negotiations in question and which, of course, is why the bill is different from one year to the next, then the employer side should be welcome to come and reopen the negotiations. That was their main demand. It wasn't something the government brought in, and it wasn't something the employees brought in. It was the employers' side, i.e. those who represent the companies, who asked for the model as their main requirements. Now they've got that model. If they have regretted it, my door is always open, and then we can negotiate another solution. Since that was their wish, it is not something that is a heartchild for any of the other parties who sat around that table.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153841	Thank you. We thank Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. We move on to Question 6 to the Minister for Children and Education by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. There is a co-questioner, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left, but first it is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153856	There's a co-questioner. It's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, Left. She's in, but first it's sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153900	Thank you. What is the reason why the Minister has still not called for negotiations on the room?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117153908	The voice is rusty on top of the municipal elections. Completely!). That's fair. I've slept two and a half hours myself tonight, so I know the feeling, if nothing else. Thank you very much for the question. I have gradually said in a few rounds down here that as soon as the corona slipped its roof, it would be one of the things we prioritized to get started. It is therefore also the case that we have called for negotiations now with the set meeting on 9 December. I would have liked to have started for an incredibly long time ago... it's been my clear wish... but then we've had corona, and then we've had corona again, and the lot of other things we've been doing. What then was my objective on top of the spring closure was that in this autumn we were able to get the negotiations started. We shall do so by having convened a meeting on 9 December. But it should not be a secret that I would have preferred to have seen that we had conducted negotiations and legislation and everything else a long time ago. It is one of those things where I really think it has been frustrating that it stopped because of corona. So I'm glad we're getting started now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154008	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154010	I'm really, really happy about that too. I am glad that the Minister took the initiative to convene us on Monday after we had asked these questions on Friday, which we are discussing here today. It's just so important that we get this education going, and it's been postponed over and over again. So we're really, really happy about that. One of the things I would like to ask the Minister to confirm today is that the starting point for these negotiations must of course be the report that we in fact jointly held our parties majority in favour back to 29 May 2018, which describes challenges with the studio and the various elements that are right, really important to get in place both in quality and in supply and in the integration process thereafter. So I hope that the Minister will confirm that this is part of the basis for the debate that we will start on 9 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154103-2	And free choice. And free choice! Well, the minister has it under control, it's great). It's just to bring one of the things I actually really think is important, because what was the whole intention behind the studio was that it was individually organized. And I think that there are too many reports from out there about citizens who have only been offered one thing and in which it is rather the nature of having been imposed that this is what has been offered! I think it is really important that young people who visit to the room have different things to choose from, in the same way as all other young people have different things to choose from. So I also think that choice is important. But yes, a confirmation that we are based on the things that lie from 2018, and by the way both the evaluation and the good inputs that have come from the parties, around the studio.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154152	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154153	But it is really gratifying that we can agree on what we stand on. I also hear the Minister confirm that what is central is precisely the specially organized training and that each young person is given what is now right for each young person. But there are also some frameworks that can be important in ensuring that you experience that you are seen and heard as an ordinary young student. This applies, for example, to whether there are student cards and whether there are youth cards on the same terms as there are also in various other upper secondary educations, so that you really see that you are in youth education. So could we not agree that we are also taking this into the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154232	No, because it's not really a state question. So it would be most orthodox that all of a sudden we started dictating it. The youth card is actually something you decide locally. In other words, the fact that there is this in other youth education is not something in which we, as a state, are involved. Of course, we can always raise the question, that goes without saying. So if there's a wish, we can turn it around. But it is just to say that I do not think it is appropriate for us to start taking tasks of that nature into the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154300	Thank you. Then it is the co-questioner, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154303	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking the Minister for finally inviting us to negotiations. I can tell you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl and I were discussing whether that was what was needed to push these negotiations forward, so that we had to ask the Minister some questions together. Because we have tried several rounds, among other things. I think it would be a good idea for the Commission to take a decision on this matter. So we are pleased that we are finally going to get started. I would like to ask the Minister a few questions along these lines, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl was around. Can we do anything to make it easier for this group of young people to get student cards and these youth cards? Can we do anything about information?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154402	I think we should certainly take a look at that. I think that part of this, no matter how we land what, will suggest that we have a discussion with both regions and municipalities. That is to say, it may be one of the things you take in this connection. So I am certainly open to it, because I can easily see the unreasonableness of the fact that if you as a young person go on any other youth education, you can have access to everything, just not if it is a living room. So I think we should take a look at these inappropriate things. So the part I'm not going to give you is just that we're starting to state something that is now local. But we have plenty of tools to go in and look at how we can make things more flexible anyway, and I think we should use them. So it is just a commitment that I think we should look at how we can find solutions to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154442	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154443	It was not long ago I asked some written questions on this particular subject, and the answers I got back were so that the young people and the parents had to find out for themselves. That is basically what the answer was about, that is to say you had to contact the municipalities yourself, and then they had to find out together. I just need to say that there are, in fact, a number of these young people, perhaps also their parents, who may find it difficult to act in these public systems. So is this something the Minister thinks we could give a helping hand to solve it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154517	Now I think it is being tightened up a little, what is in those answers, but it is quite true that the answer describes what the rules are like today. It is not, of course, an expression of what we want or do not want to discuss with each other in the context of a course of negotiations that we have all known was about to begin. So it's just to say that's how the rules are today. I think we should take a good look at the living room. It has been going on for a very long time because of the coronate, which means that I think we should give ourselves the time needed. I do not need an agreement of 14 days, I need us to do it properly, and that means that we should rather spend the few months in the negotiation process to get around all the issues that the various parties bring in. Of course, we have taken stock of the things that the studio alliance among others. We have been working on them for a long time, but there may of course be requests for other themes, and I think we should give time for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154604	Then we would like to thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen on this occasion. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154611	Thank you, and thank you for the answers. We look forward to having these negotiations, because I wonder whether we can agree that what must be at the heart of individual students is that they actually experience themselves as students. I know that one can have a discussion about whether or not there is real competence, but it is really important for young people who go on it that they experience that they are going on an education and that they are equal and that they have the same conditions as others. So it may well be that it lies in different places, the rules on student cards, the rules on youth cards, but can we agree that we are working towards that they can actually have the same framework and the same opportunities as all sorts of other young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154650	As a problem formulation, I agree, and then it is a question of what tools we are dealing with. Are we going to discuss this with the municipalities or with the regions, or how are we going to deal with it? I think we should discuss that part, but I fully agree with the objective, and I will arrest anyone who says that taking a room is not an education, because where I have been, it is quite obvious that it is. It may well be something else going on in a stx class, but I should like to say that learning to master, for example. Making your own food can be all the difference between whether you can leave home or not at some point, if you have job reductions. So what you learn, yes, it can be something different from what you learn in terms of a Baccalaureate or something else, but education is it, and it is crucial for the conduct of young people, both in relation to their private lives and in relation to their working lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154734	Thank you. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). The next question has also been put to the Minister for Children and Education, and this has been asked by Mrs Anni Matthiesen, and the questioner is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154753	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister agree that we must both improve the quality and increase the availability of existing stu services?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154804	I have to go into the final part in greater detail, so we have to come back to what is really meant by the issue of supply. On the question of quality, the answer is yes with exclamation marks afterwards. There are some amazing stu offers out there, so it shouldn't sound like it's all wrong, because it's not. But, of course, there must be greater certainty that there is actually the quality you can expect when you start a living room. Just as a student who starts high school has an expectation of a certain standard, one must of course also be able to have it when starting a stu-offer. I cannot say for sure that there is today, and that is one of the reasons why I think it is so important that we go in together and have a look at this. I'm gonna need to hear a little more about the supply, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154850	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154851	Thank you. This is the case, and I think I have actually mentioned this to the Minister in various contexts. Unfortunately, there are still young people who may be offered only one or two lines in connection with the room. Let me give you an example: a young woman who is on a stu offer is offered that what she can choose from is to be a janitor or to be in the kitchen. She may actually have a desire to learn to care for children in a crèche, but there are the two offers, and that is what she has to choose from. This is actually where I think it is important that we organise it in a way that there will be more tenders to choose from, so I think the Minister mentioned it a little in the first question: there will be more free choice and thus also more opportunities for these young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117154951	I call it free choice and not the number of invitations to tender, and I believe that there is indeed a nuance difference, but we need to spend some time on that in the negotiating room, because I do not necessarily think that there should be more calls for tenders I think there should be more free choice. And there may be some spots on the map where the two things cannot be done at the same time, so I will not reject it. It may well be that there are some places where there may actually be some more tenders, but what is at the heart of it is, in my opinion, that young people should have freedom of choice. And there I think we really want to go to the same place, and then we have to look at the map, because it may also be that it is two different things that need to be done whether you are 1 km from the City Hall Square in Copenhagen or whether you are in a rural municipality where things are already very far apart. It is often the case when we are dealing with educational problems that there is a huge difference in where you are in the country. So I think we should go to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155041	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155042	And then perhaps it is very appropriate to move on to the next question, because I would really like to have a look at it, a comment from the Minister, whether it was an idea that one would also make sure that there was one digital entrance, i.e. in exactly the same way as if one were to send a child to a post-school where one can go through one road and see: What are types of post-schools? Could we do so in the same way with regard to the room, that is, that one could have one entrance and there could see what one really has to choose from?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155120	Yeah, that would be perfectly obvious. I guess that's one of the things we're gonna talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155126	Thank you. And then there's a co-questioner. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155131	Thank you. It is really, really important that we ensure the quality of these tenders, and I think we agree that, as the Minister says, there are today some really, really good offers and some not so good offers. And, as Mrs Anni Matthiesen also mentioned, unfortunately, we see a great many examples of young people being pushed into a room which is not what they want and which is not going anywhere. So what I really want the minister to do is: are we not going to say in some way at the same level as we have with the Fgu's saying that there has to be a plan that goes beyond the living room, that is, that really goes to some kind of employment, in relation to what to do afterwards? Many of these young people can actually get out of a flex job of some kind if it is targeted and if it can run like such a fairly continuous course. Should you not have the right to both a choice, in relation to what you want, and the right to a plan that actually makes things stick together over the course of the study and on to the life you have to live afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155233	That's what I'd think was perfectly obvious. So that is just the same answer as to the last question: I wonder if that is one of the things we are going to discuss with each other. I think that in some way there is something fundamental disrespectful about the fact that there is no free choice. After all, few people, who are not subject to some form of outside authority, are simply being imposed some kind of offer. Well, we don't actually operate that way in our society. And that means that I think there is something about having exactly the same respect for the young people who must have a living room as you have for everyone else. When I think about how much effort we have spent in the student distribution negotiations to talk about how we ensure that it is the student's own wish • so I belong best at Christianshavn's Gymnasium, or do I belong more at Ørestad Gymnasium?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155333	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155334	I agree with you, yes, we should be ashamed of ourselves, because we have some of the weakest young people in this society that we do not offer any opportunities that we do not give any choice, and the worst thing is that we may deprive them of the opportunity to have a good life with an employment where they could be allowed to contribute. So I would just like to say that I am very much looking forward to having these things unfolded in the negotiations, and I look forward to seeing that soon we can really get started and hopefully not be overtaken by any corona or anything else that can delay it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155406	Yeah, let's hope so, 7-9-13. I think I've been on my way with that invitation to negotiations sometimes, but then there's a new corona wave coming in, and then we had to stop it again. Now we hope to succeed, now we are called in, and then we must get started. There have been other debates where we had actually started, and in the course of the negotiations on national tests we actually managed to have a meeting and a meeting and everything else, but then we hit the corona, and then we started again and so on out there. Now we're gonna go right after the nose, and then we're gonna have to take it as it comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155437	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155440	Thank you. I can at least say that, and I can promise the Minister that there are two of us here who look forward very much to getting started, because I can say that this is something we have actually been discussing for a long, long time. Perhaps the Minister could also make a comment on the length of the proceedings that sometimes apply to these young people. In fact, they are in danger of being stuck in the processing systems for many months. Is this something that the Minister agrees that we should also go around in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155522	All good ideas for reducing this issue are warmly welcome at that negotiating table. In other words, I believe that when parents and, incidentally, young people get the age when we talk about families with young people with disabilities, they spend far too much effort on it and have to spend far too much effort on what is about navigating in the system we have built around the disability area. I know that my colleague, Mrs Astrid Krag, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly, is working very hard on this, and there has been work for years before that to ease that burden. We are far from achieving this yet, and this is one of the places where we can help to make it easier to have a family member with disabilities in the field of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155604	Thank you. That was the end of Question 7 on the agenda. We are grateful to Mrs Anni Matthiesen and to Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. The next question has been put to the Minister for Children and Education by Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155618	The question is this: will the government ensure that a large number of school managers do not uphold teachers' freedom of speech and method • ensure that a special day is set up for teaching freedom of speech and Mohammed drawings for all primary school pupils?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155637	It is almost identical with the question put to the Minister for Justice, although it is a little more specific on the school day. I will start by saying, because now I was overheard the previous round of questions and answers that it is almost going to sound as if nothing has happened. I think this is very far away from reality, understood in the sense that the initiative has actually been taken to double the penalties against citizens who are trying to prevent some others from using their freedom of expression. I simply think that this is very important, both in terms of how we as a society enter into it with a seriousness, in terms of how important it is to safeguard it. And, of course, there are questions about the things that have filled a great deal in the field of education. You can say that one thing is the punishments, but another thing is how to take that long, tough move compared to having a shape reversed. And there I would say that in the field of education, in addition to the doubling of the penalty, a long, cool move has been initiated in relation to dressing teachers. They have asked for this, in other words to be prepared to teach these very difficult questions too, and that means that a number of theme days have been held both for teachers and for school leaders, in relation to how to teach controversial subjects and critical thinking, as well as the production of brand new material on emu.dk, exactly in relation to the question of how to teach these themes. I myself have visited Frederiksberg Gymnasium, which is one of the places where you have a very mixed class of students, and where problems have been encountered from time to time precisely in relation to the risk of self-censorship and other things, and you have to listen very carefully to what is being said, in relation to how important it is to get teachers dressed to stand out there in the classroom with a new vintage year after year, where you have to enter both in relation to a student group and in the public school context in relation to a parent group. We are not there yet, and it is therefore a great pleasure for me that the Prime Minister has announced that negotiations will be convened in relation to how we approach the question of avoiding self-censorship, and that is where I think the concrete proposal contained in the question would be obvious. Is that where you take the discussion about it? This is a breach of the Danish school tradition.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155851	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117155853	Yes, the question is relevant because, unfortunately, we have experienced teachers who have wanted to teach the Mohammed drawings or have tried to do so, but who have been bullied, who have been beaten in various ways. We have an example, and it's a member of the DF, but it might as well be someone who wasn't, and her name is Jannie Bøgh, and she's got threats from Muslims over the years for different Islamic criticism. But the worst thing for her is, in fact, in the context of this situation, that she is excluded from the teachers' flock, that she is subjected to verbal and physical harassment by her colleagues, and this has meant that she has been paid sick and has been dismissed. I'd like to hear about something there. When the Minister says that there are some things to be discussed and there are legislative proposals and such things, how do we specifically support the teacher and the teachers who are in a situation where they feel threatened away from teaching what they really think their students should know about? That's the first thing. The second is: will the government take the concrete initiative - and I did ask the question, but I don't really think I was given the answer - to make a day when all the students in the country's schools learn about the Mohammed drawings, because that is an important part of our Danish history? Will this initiative be taken? In this way, you can take responsibility a little away from the teachers and thus lift them into the situation that they can do so with the full support of the Folketing, which stands firm on freedom of expression, as I also assume the government does.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160037	Yeah, the last one almost gives itself. If you're threatened, it's a police matter. Threats must be met by the police, which is why I think it is important to go in and look at the level of penalties, and I am extremely pleased that you go in and double the level of penalties in order to try to prevent someone from using their freedom of expression. It then also requires a reality that is actually being applied. So, of course, threats to teachers have to be addressed in such a way that they report it, and it is no matter who it comes from, whether it is pupils, whether it is other teachers, whether it is parents, whether it is the community or who reacts.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160115	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160120	I think I should read the question again, because I still do not think the Minister really gets the answer to what I actually ask. Twice I've tried now, and I'm just trying a third time. So, will the government ensure that a special day is set up for teaching freedom of speech and Mohammed drawings for all primary school pupils? That's the question. Will the government ensure this and in this way take responsibility from those who are threatened today? Do you want to make sure of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160142	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160144	The challenge is, of course, that the questioner asks more questions, and the answer time is so short, so I can answer one and then I can't get to the other. We do not think it is time to conclude on that talk yet. Making a concrete day, which we charge to all schools, will be a break with all the Danish school tradition. It may well be that we are going there because we are in a new situation, but to make that decision just like that is just to do it with a little too easy hand. After all, it is the Danish school tradition, and it has been there since 1814, so we should not do that too easily. So if we are to go there, we must have a more thorough discussion, and that is what the government has taken the initiative to do with the negotiations announced and convened by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160225	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160227	Yeah, now I got the answer to the question. The government doesn't want that, so you don't want to make a special day, but what does the government want? is really the question. In other words, will the government ensure that teachers are free to teach in the Mohammed drawings, and lift the responsibility of teachers, who today very often refrain from doing so because they are afraid to be threatened, they are afraid to suffer the same fate as Samuel Paty in France? So that is really the essential thing here: is there a self-censorship today? Yes, there is. What can we do about it? After all, we can take responsibility away from the teachers and ensure that the government and the Folketing take responsibility for themselves, and you can do that in this way. So if you don't want this, what do you want?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160311	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160312	It is quite a fortune teller that we are standing here to ask questions, in other words to be able to conclude on a course of negotiations that has not even been called for yet. The conclusion of what the government wants and does not want, at a time when we have not started the negotiations yet, I think I might just be quick enough. What we've been saying from the government is that it doesn't work with that self-censorship. We recognise that it is there and that it is unacceptable. You have to be able to walk safely to work. We have not provided the framework for this yet, and that is why we want those negotiations. I understand now that we are dealing with a fortune teller who knows in advance, but I simply do not want to conclude where the negotiations are going yet. I think we should have a thorough discussion because some of the tools on the table break with a school tradition we have had in Denmark since 1814. So you don't do that with an easy hand, I would say; that is, when someone else comes and dictates what our school tradition should be like, I think you should be a little careful about that. But we must, of course, be able to solve the present problems, which is why it may well be that there are some new types of tools on the table. So that's what the discussion is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160409	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The next question is Mr. Marcus Knuth, who has some questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160421	Here's the questioner for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160425	Thank you, sir. President. What is the Minister's view that the Folketing should not be informed of how many applicants for Danish citizenship have previously been assessed as endangering the security of the empire?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160439	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160440	Thank you, President, and thank you to the author for his question. On 20 April earlier this year, the government concluded an agreement with the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance on the conditions to be included in a bill on the communication of citizenship. Our agreement states, among other things, that the granting of citizenship should be reserved for those who have chosen Denmark and basic Danish values and legal principles, learned Danish, who have integrated in and want to be an active part of Danish society and who have not committed crime. As I have said on previous occasions, I believe that when an applicant fulfils the conditions agreed by a majority of the Folketing, the applicant must be included in a legislative proposal. As the questioner is also aware, police intelligence services, before submitting a draft law on citizenship notice, make an assessment of whether there are applicants who may be a threat to the security of the state. As to the work of PET, it appears from the circular letter that if the Minister of Justice announces that it is assessed by the Police Intelligence Service that an applicant may be a threat to the security of the State, the matter will be referred to the Committee of Insights with a recommendation to exclude the person concerned from admission to a bill on the notification of citizenship for a specified period of time. I cannot tell you whether there are any applicants on the draft law on the right of residence which has previously been considered by PET as a threat to the security of the State, and this is because, within the framework of a parliamentary service, I cannot discuss the work of PET in more detail either orally or in writing, including providing specific information on the intelligence service's knowledge of individuals. However, it should be borne in mind that, if there is an applicant who has previously been assessed by PET as a threat to the security of the State and he or she had to appear in a later draft law, then it is because it is no longer the assessment that the applicant is a threat to the security of the State. In those words, I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160634	Thank you, Minister. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160635	Thank you, Minister. But, frankly, it is deeply, deeply unsatisfactory that we in the Folketing cannot get an answer to something as basic as whether there are applicants for Danish citizenship who can soon get the Danish passport, which has previously been a threat to the country's security. Well, being a threat to the country's security is in the heavy category: people who want to blow up the Jyllands-Posten or kill other people. And if it is the case that in the past one has been a threat to the security of the country, one should of course not have Danish citizenship. So now that I am asking the Minister whether anyone has been a threat to the security of the country in the past, why is it that I cannot get an answer? I know I cannot get an answer in this Chamber, but I have asked in confidence over in committee. Why can't I get a very, very simple answer to my question?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160723	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160725	I would just like to point out that, in the context of a legislative proposal, if PET considers that an applicant is a threat to the security of the country, then the cases will be submitted to the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and we have a good tradition of doing so, and there will be a proposal for the exclusion of the person concerned. If it is the case that there is a desire to discuss after-business matters in the Danish Parliament, then it will have to take place in what is commonly known as the Control Committee, which is intended precisely to have an insight into the activities of the Defence and Police Intelligence Service.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160803	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160804	Thank you, Minister. That's quite an answer. That means that if I ask the same question again, i.e. if there are people who have previously been a threat to the security of the country, and I ask for an answer over in the Control Committee, then can the Minister say that I can get that answer? Because it is quite absurd if in a few weeks' time we in the Danish Parliament are granting Danish citizenship to people who have been a threat to the security of the country in the past. It may well be that they are not today, but if it is the case that once you have been planning to commit terrorism, then of course you should not have the Danish passport, even many years later.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160833	It is not to be unduly secretive, but we have agreed on a framework that is set out in the circular letter, which provides the basis for who should be on the bill on citizenship notification. And it is clear from the circular letter that if PET considers that someone is at risk, then they will be submitted to the committee. That is what we have agreed and that is what we are working for. I cannot guarantee what will be presented to the Control Committee, but I can say that if you want a debate on a business relationship, it is in the Committee on Intelligence where it is going to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160913	But frankly: If it is the case that one has at any time been a threat to Denmark's security, one should not be able to obtain a Danish passport in the future, and there it is, of course, the rule that during a specified period one cannot obtain Danish citizenship. The Minister himself has set this at five years. We believe it should be permanent. But until we get it through, we'd like to know if there's anyone on this bill that's actually been a threat to national security. Because if they've been, of course, they shouldn't be on the bill. So will the Minister do anything to work with us so that we can get an answer as to whether anyone has been at risk for the country's security, which is about to get the Danish passport?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117160953	What matters to us is that the Committee on the Rights of the Child is told whether the intelligence service considers that there is someone at risk to the security of the state and that there is an opt-out. Yeah, I can't get any closer to a discussion of the other. I can only call for these questions to be raised in the Committee on Intelligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161019	Thank you. The next question has also been asked by Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party and also the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161025	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161026	Thank you, sir. President. What is the Minister's view that applicants who have received repeated and extensive sentences for crime are entitled to Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161035	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161036	Again, I would like to thank you for the question. I would also like to say again that on 20 April this year the government reached an agreement with the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance on the conditions for being included in a legislative proposal. It is an agreement that I am pleased with, and it is an agreement in which we had emphasised that the granting of Danish citizenship is a declaration of confidence from Danish society and therefore also something to be earned. Our agreement shows, among other things, that it is essential that applicants for Danish citizenship have not committed serious crime. An applicant who has been sentenced to conditional or unconditional imprisonment or measures under Chapter 9 of the Penal Code is therefore excluded from becoming a Danish national under the new rules, unless the Parliamentary Committee on Bodily Rights specifically grants the derogation in question from the requirement of good repute. I am of the opinion that an applicant for Danish citizenship must be included in a bill on citizenship notification if he fulfils the conditions agreed by a majority of the Folketing or if he has been granted a specific derogation. That is why I also support the legislative proposal that has been presented with the names that appear in that legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161148	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161149	Thank you, Minister. I have a very peaceful view, I think, that criminal foreigners should not, of course, have a Danish passport. Then it is true that we have made a new citizenship agreement that tightens up the rules, but there are still far too many criminals flying under the radar. On the upcoming bill, there are people convicted of drug trafficking, repeated cases of theft. Sometimes it is the same person who has done it over and over again, heeling, illegal work, violations of the Aliens Act, etc. etc. There we think Conservatives that these people should of course not have Danish passports. As a minimum, we want to have all the information submitted and we want to be able to vote on it in confidence in the committee. If a majority in the Folketing wants them to have citizenship anyway, then of course we respect it. But we cannot go through that process because the Minister keeps blocking it. Why is it that the Minister is blocking the totally constitutionalally bound parliamentary work that we want to carry out here, so that we can at least be allowed to vote against those who have committed crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161251	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161252	Thank you for the question. I myself also think I have the reasonably peaceful view that the political agreements that have been reached must be administered. This means that the applicants are therefore people who apply for Danish citizenship, who comply with the conditions, as a starting point on the legislative proposals we are dealing with here in the Parliamentary Chamber. There is just this small exception, where we get a call from the police intelligence service, but if you ignore it, that will be our position, and therefore we are also managing after the agreements that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161328	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161329	That is where I fundamentally disagree entirely with the Minister. For the Minister suggests that it is a right to obtain Danish citizenship, as long as you live up to the circular. We believe that it is a gift to get Danish citizenship, and if it is the case that you live up to the circular, but a majority in the Folketing still think that if you have five convictions for different kinds of crime that are just under prison, you should not have it, then of course you should not have it. So if it was the case that a majority in the Folketing might want to mess some people who had committed crime with this bill, why won't the Minister let the Folketing carry it out?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161401	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161402	But maybe we are here at the heart of the matter. For, as I hear the Conservative People's Party, the Conservative People's Party believes that the people who live up to the circular letter constitute a gross list of people who can have citizenship, and then the Folketing can play some of them if, for various reasons, it is felt that they should not have citizenship. We probably look at it that way and that is how the Danish Parliament has seen it for many, many years that the people who live up to the conditions must have Danish citizenship, and then it may be that some are added to it because the Danish Parliament grants an exemption after an individual examination of an application.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161440	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161441	I just have to say that I think that the Minister's approach basically lacks common sense. Our agreement states, as the Minister himself acknowledges, that you should not have Danish citizenship if you have committed significant crime. But committing crime just below prison level over and over again, regardless of whether it's stealing, illegal work or drugs, I think it's important, and here it is that the Folketing should be the common sense filter that goes in and says: Yes, it may well be that you live up to the circular, but you have committed so much crime below prison level that you may have to wait a few years or you shouldn't have Danish citizenship at all. Now I ask again: why will the Minister not allow the Folketing to do that work?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161519	However, we have met many times and negotiated what types of crime and prison sentences should lead to exclusion from citizenship. After all, we have discussed this with each other, and we have written it down on some A4 papers, and we have said that this is our political agreement. Then I think that we are also parties behind that agreement should say that the people who live up to those conditions must have granted citizenship. Otherwise, I guess there's no reason to negotiate an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161550	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The next question is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party, and the question is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161600	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161601	Thank you, President. The Minister will ensure an independent assessment of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 9 July 2021 in the case of M.A. against Denmark, where the Ministry of Justice has assessed that the postponement of family reunification may not be more than 2 years and not, for example, 21⁄2 years, 2⁄4 years or more, for example, by asking the DA?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161632	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161634	Thank you for the question. Nearly a month ago we had a question debate in this Chamber, where we debated what is called the M.A. judgment. During the debate a number of questions were asked whether the government would obtain an external assessment of the consequences of the judgment, and that question was asked among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). The answer is that the lawyers in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, in close cooperation with the lawyers in the Ministry of Justice, have made an analysis of the judgment, and that is what the government is dealing with and is laying the foundations for. The legal analysis of the judgment and its consequences has been sent to the Folketing and is available to everyone. I think we sent the briefing on 1 October. I fully recognise that I would have liked to see the judgment passed differently myself, but I must admit that at the same time I am also a little relieved that we can actually reinstate the three-year rule if we are in a new situation of mass influx of asylum seekers at some point. Fortunately, we're not there now. In fact, the figures are historically low, and we must, of course, continue to work on this, and that means that, as the situation now stands, we must administer the three-year rule as a two-year rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161746	Thank you, Minister. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161748	Thank you. When I ask here again today, it is because we have not yet received any justification or reference to what exactly is in the judgment in question which makes it felt that two years is the rule we must adopt. We are told that it is based on an overall assessment or that it is estimated that 2 years is the level. But when you read the verdict on the 70 pages or so, there is nowhere to be a recommendation of 2 years. It is said that, in the specific circumstances of the case, three years were a violation of the Convention, but otherwise there are no recommendations. That is why it is a little interesting to hear what it really is that makes the Ministry say two years, and we have not been able to hear that in the debates here. That's why it's so interesting why you don't want an external assessment. It is of course no secret and I would say, particularly under this government, that there has been a very violent rapprochement between the party organisation Social Democracy and then the third of power called the executive. I think we have never seen so many active Social Democrats in the ministries before. Therefore, confidence when a ministry system says that it is just so, so of course also the less. That is why I would just like to hear from the Minister when he says that you do not want a third, an independent, independent assessment, for example from the Chamber Attorney, whether he can point out where, in the judgment, it is possible to say that here it is completely sloppy and easy to say that what is legal in the absence of a state of war leading to a mass influx is two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161938	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117161940	I would like to start by saying that I do not know about the political views of the officials who have made this assessment, but what I know is that they are lawyers and that they have been dealing with the rights of foreigners and international conventions and the interpretation of international judgments for many years. I would also like to say that I do not prevent anyone from reading the verdict and making its own conclusions. Professors at the university can do that, and I would only call for this so that we can have the most qualified legal discussion on how international judgments affect Danish foreign law. I'm only interested in that. What I am just saying is that the government's conclusion is that we have expressed in the note that has been transmitted on 1 October and, just as we do not ask other people to recalculate what the Treasury's financial calculations come up with, we do not ask anyone else to re-evaluate what the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' legal assessments come up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162039	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162040	Thank you. Well, I have the note, and there's nothing in it about which part of the sentence points to two years. Now I ask the Minister: what part of the sentence points to two years? I have a high opinion of lawyers, but lawyers also have opinions, and law is not an exact science, because it is about what considerations you watch. The Minister says that the lawyers came to the conclusion that it is two years, so I would just like to ask: what are some articles in the judgment pointing to two years?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162113	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162114	I think we have now tried to make a fairly thorough note which has been sent to the Danish Parliament, that is to say what was transmitted on 1 October. I am not here to admit the note, nor am I here with the verdict, but what I have to say is the conclusion that it is possible to have a two-year rule, but that a postponement for more than two years requires objective reasons. If there is a desire to obtain the references to the terms of the judgment, I am very happy to reply to it in writing, but I must admit that I do not have this. But there is an expectation that if you go further than 2 years, Denmark will be convicted of an infringement of Article 8 ECHR.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162159	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162200	It is true that a number of passages are quoted in the note, namely § 145, § 155-165, and others, but it does not say anywhere that if Denmark for example. If we had chosen to lower the annual limit to 2 3/4 years or 21⁄2 years, that would also constitute an infringement, because that is not the way the Court of Human Rights works at all. That's why it's so paradoxical that the government just slopsafely says: 2 years. It does not say 2 years and 2 months and not 2 years and 4 months, but 2 years. And if the Minister feels that it is more convenient for one of his officials to reply in writing, it is of course welcome, but we would like to have the complete grievance of two years in the judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162246	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162247	I can certainly answer with certainty that I feel more comfortable in replying in writing to the terms of a judgment in an international court which affects the Danish rules on foreign law. But I don't want to hide the fact that when this sentence came, the first thing that pops up in my head was that if it isn't 3 years, is it 21⁄2 years or 2 years and 11 months or 2 years and 4 weeks or 2 years and 3 days? I mean, where's the limit? That is why, of course, I myself, before that note was sent to the Danish Parliament on 1 October, asked whether it could be somewhere between 2 years and 3 years. There's the answer no. That's what the Ministry's legal assessment is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162331	Thank you to the questioner and to the Minister. The next question is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, and he has asked questions to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162341	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162342	Thank you. If the Minister considers that it is a good idea to sort waste by means of robots rather than source sorting in the individual household, then the large economic and climate savings of 25 million respectively. kr. and 12,000 tonnes of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162402	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162404	Thank you. We Danes have a European record in waste. We are the ones who throw out most household waste over 800 kg per year. person per person years. At the same time, almost a third of all waste in Denmark today is burned and emits CO2 So we have to recycle and we have to recycle more, and that is also the goal of the streamlining of waste sorting that the government has agreed with a broad majority of Parliament's parties. The new framework can then also help create new green job opportunities at home. It is a good question that the Danish People's Party rapporteur asks, i.e. whether the technology is ready to sort plastic and food and drink cartons from residual waste. That is how I understand the question. There are differences of opinion about it, also among researchers, but in relation to the conclusion of the agreement on a climate plan for waste, the academic assessment by the Danish EPA was that the post-sorting of plastic waste by technology would be a fine addition to separate collection by citizens, but not a full-scale alternative to separate collection. I would like to stress, and this is also the point, that if technological solutions can do just as well and, above all, with equally high quality and in equal quantities for recycling, the agreement does not stand in the way of it, on the contrary. It is, of course, because it is basically about how to create as much reuse and recycling as possible for the benefit of our climate, environment and new green jobs. That is why it is high time we reached that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162539	Thank you to the Minister, and here you go to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162542	Thank you. We kind of agreed on the goal of this. The challenge then lies in the fact that when I sit at a recent municipal council meeting in Assens to negotiate and assess the new waste plan for Assens Municipality, the legal requirement is that a very large number of sources be sorted out by the individual citizens. What we are discussing on Funen is whether or not we can actually do better. At least we're told that the robots know that we're doing this collection that the robots can sort out can do much, much better than we can as human beings. Last week I experienced coming home to my recycling container, which had such a fine little green note on which it was written that I had put down a nylon net along with plastic. I am not in a position to assess whether anything is nylon or plastic or what it is; I just thought it might belong there. But I'm told I'm not gonna get rid of my assailant because I have something in it that shouldn't be there. And if I can't understand it, I'm thinking there's a lot of other people who can't. So much of my garbage could easily end up in the black bucket where it doesn't belong at all. And I know that if we had the robots to do it, they'd be able to sort it out and see what this is, whether it's nylon or plastic of one type or another or another. This is also why the municipalities at Funen have applied for a derogation so that they can unfold this with the robots. In fact, this is something we said modestly is quite good at on Funen: exploiting robotics. If you can do what you can, with a much, much higher quality of sorting and much more efficient, because you don't have to drive out so many trucks and collect fractions from the individual citizens there are a lot of miles around when you are in a rural municipality like Assen's Municipality, so it's also very much CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162747	Thank you to the questioner. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162748	However, I am delighted that the questioner says that we agree on the objectives, and it can therefore also be annoyed that the Danish People's Party is not part of this broad agreement, which has probably been discussed for 15 years, but which has never happened. For there is And you can say that you could walk around the hot porridge and keep saying: Well yes, but when the technology is ready, we have to do something. What we have chosen to say is that, on the other hand, we have also said that if technology is there and it will also be developed as we set it in motion, the agreement will not stand in the way of it. And that is why the Danish Environmental Protection Agency will also look at the application sent by the municipalities of Funen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162827	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162829	Part of the reason why the Danish People's Party is not part of the agreement is precisely that we can see the complications of the very, very extensive source sorting, and a large part of it will be solved precisely by using the technology. But I also hear the Minister say that we should be able to get started. If we believe that technology is there, we should not start installing something else that is both expensive and difficult; then we can actually get started on the technology described in the application sent in by the municipalities of Funen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162859	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162900	I think it is a little too bad: they say that we want to recycle and recycle in Denmark, and the business community recommends that we streamline the waste fractions in Denmark if we are to succeed, and that is what we are a broad circle of parties that have listened to and have just implemented. It is clear that it is launching a huge technological development, and that is really, really, really good. What we have just made conditional on, if you have to do that sorting on plants instead, is that you have to be able to guarantee, among other things. the same quality and the same high recycling, and that is what the Funen municipalities' application will be assessed for. So it is a professional assessment, and the professional assessment is not yet made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162937	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117162938	But can I get the Minister's assurance that you will of course look at the application, but also that we in the municipalities of Funen will not be forced to set up a heavy and expensive and cumbersome system if we are just about to get approval that we can actually do it in another, smarter, cheaper and better way? After all, it does not make sense to throw out a lot of money on something that we really do not need and that we could do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163002	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163005	Well, I think it is a little too bad to say that what we have set in motion now is heavy and stupid and cumbersome and so on, because it is all about the fact that if we want to ensure more recycling and recycling in Denmark, and we want to do so in the government, and that is what a broad circle of parties wants, then we also have to start up, and then we cannot wait all the time for the technology to be ready, because it is not going to be ready either. That is what we are hearing from the business community, from the climate partnership that has been set up there. If they are to invest in recycling plants in Denmark, yes, they must be sure of streamlining the waste, and that is what we have guaranteed. So you get to source sorting, also on Funen, because it doesn't cover all the fractions, regardless of the application, but the Danish Environmental Protection Agency will obviously assess the application that has been sent in, and it doesn't conflict with the agreement we have made. So that's what you're gonna do professionally, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163049	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163057	The debate is open, and the first speaker is Mr. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163119	Thank you, President. It is the case that we have to deal today with L 62, as has also been mentioned, that is to say, with a proposal for a law amending the law on the carriage of goods, the law on bus services and the law on the posting of employees, etc. The draft law has two main objectives. On the one hand, the proposal will implement the EU road package and, on the other hand, the proposal will amend the national authorisation system for companies transporting goods for hire or reward. In this case, the proposal to amend the national licensing system for goods vehicles is aimed at ensuring a level playing field for goods transport on a foreign basis with goods vehicles, whichever the weight of the goods is being transported. Today it is the case that companies can speculate about dividing goods into smaller packages to circumvent this permit requirement, and you can just say that this is not what the rule is meant to do. In addition, our authorities also find that the rule is extremely difficult to enforce in practice. Some of the essential things that are involved here are, of course, that, as far as the share of the bill implementing the road package is concerned, it can be said that it contains a number of amendments and clarifications to the law on the carriage of goods and the law on bus and coach transport, as regards the requirements for the pursuit of the occupation of road haulage operator. The amendments are necessary as a result of new requirements in the road package and, in addition, the road package introduces a requirement for a Community authorisation for road hauliers carrying out international freight services in vans of more than 2,500 kg. Against this background, the scope of the Road Transport Act is proposed to be extended to international goods transport in vans weighing more than 2,500 kg and not more than 3,500 kg. This will mean that, from 21 May 2022, a Community licence will be required for the international carriage of goods by road. In addition to the implementation of the road package, the legislative proposal also contains proposals for amending the national licensing system for vans. Specifically, the existing derogation allowing goods vehicle operators to carry out goods transport without authorisation is abolished if the total weight of the goods transported is less than 11 kg. For us, the limit on the time of authorisation of a van company is also changed from 2,000 kg to 2,500 kg. This will mean that, from 1 January 2023, a national road haulage licence will be required for goods vehicles exceeding 2,500 kg, regardless of the weight of the goods transported. With the bill, we believe that we are helping to ensure both fair and equal conditions when goods are transported in the EU road transport sector, just as we also ensure fair and equal conditions for national goods traffic in goods vehicles, and these measures can, of course, be supported by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163435	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163439	Thank you. It is quite obvious that this bill will bring some improvements, but what does Mr. Henrik Møller to the clear distance that both FH and 3F have put in relation to the leg of third country driving, which has so far been very much what has been in relation to the total murky competition of cheap drivers from the Philippines, Kazakhstan, Belarus and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163510	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163511	I would say that I am relying on what is the presentation, one might say, from the Minister and from the Ministry in relation to implementing it here, and that part in relation to the national legislation on this with what weight the car should have, and a question of what growth should be in relation to what is in it, we feel very well covered with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163537	Thank you. An additional brief remark, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163539	That's a rather marvelous answer. I ask specifically about the consultation answers from 3F and FH, and indeed also from DTL, which we may well call a progressive employers' organisation, which exactly puts its finger on the very soreest point, namely if this is a law that ended social dumping on the roads, how can the government come up with such an amputated proposal as this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163607	I don't know if it's alone either. Well, this is the implementation of a road law that has been under discussion for some time. So the majority of it is, after all, to implement what has come from the European Union. That is what we are proposing here with that addition in relation to national legislation. Then it is not the case that everything is resolved about social dumping. After all, there will still be some things that are being pointed out in these consultation responses that we will have to deal with in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163632	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117163646	Thank you for that, President. As my Socialist colleague has already explained, the draft law here deals with the amendment of the Road Transport Act, the Bus Driving Act and the Posting of Workers Act. There are two main elements. One is about implementing the EU road package, the other is about changing national rules. I'll take the road package first. After all, the European Union's road package is something that a broad circle of parties, including the Left, has supported along the way, and it has been a hard birth down in the European Union. Several years have passed since we started that work, and the whole objective of it is to get cross-border relations across transport borders. The aim is to achieve a level playing field for transport across Europe's borders. So we very much welcome the EU road package, which is why we are of course fully involved in implementing it in Danish legislation. What is at the heart of the road package is, like everything else that comes from the European Union, that we should like it to be enforced equally in each country, so that we have fair competition and so that we apply the rules throughout Europe. Specifically, this implementation means that foreign companies posting drivers in Denmark must report their driving via the internal market information system. In addition, it is proposed that in future the scope of the Road Traffic Act will also include international goods transport in vans weighing from 2,500 kg up to 3,500 kg. We think this is a good idea, and the Left can support it. Then we come to the second part of the legislative proposal, that which is not regulated by the European Union. After all, it is the so-called 11-kilos rule that the government is proposing to abolish. After all, when the goods transport law was amended back in 2019, an agreement was reached which, at the request of the Danish People's Party, made a so-called 11-kilos rule to contain the extension of the entire area in question. We other blue parties • most blue parties • were strongly opposed to the extension of the entire regulatory regime, because it resulted in a completely new and very comprehensive regulation. The 11-kilos rule is a safeguard against this, and when it was just 11 kg, it also had something to do with the health and safety rules as to how heavy packages you have to lift. If the 11-kilos rule is abolished, it is something that, among other things. I think that this is a very bad idea, and that is a very bad idea for newspapers, advertising schemes, pizza delivery, packages etc., i.e. what you might call small-scale driving. There is no doubt that it will cost the industry huge sums. After all, we can also look at the calculated costs in the legislative proposal that it is actually quite expensive to administer it if you follow this bill. And there's no doubt about where the bill for this is going, out in the distribution business and out in the industry. In addition, there is all the administrative trouble that comes when all the drivers included in that category are to be certified. So it's bothering and troublesome. Then I hear some talk about the current rules being circumvented. I heard this, among other things, when the police gave an account of the challenges they face in controlling compliance with the current system of the 11-kilos rule. We do not understand that in the Left, because it must be relatively simple to check whether a package weighs more than 11 kg or less than 11 kg. Then you can talk about perverting the rules by having more packages. Well, either it's illegal, or it's not illegal, so we're a little out of line with the Left, and we don't think that's an argument. In addition, we believe that abolishing the 11-kilos rule could help to reinforce the acute lack of drivers. So the Left cannot support the part of the bill on national rules and the abolition of the 11-kilos rule. Then it is the case that the blue parties, together with the Radical Left, have written a speech on the Stock Exchange on 21 September this year, so the Minister knows what our position on this part of the bill is. The Left has also already announced an amendment which allows us to retain the 11-kilos rule, and we also believe that there may be a need to divide the legislative proposal into two so that we can vote for the sensible things, namely the EU road package, but can vote against if the government maintains the abolition of the 11-kilos rule. That is why the Left's position on the bill is divided. We support the sensible part of the road package, but we cannot support the abolition of the 11-kilos rule. I would also like to say hello to my good, radical fellow Member, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Rasmus Helveg Petersen and say that the Radicals support the Left's line in this matter, and I should also like to welcome my colleague from New Civilist Mette Thiesen and say that they also support the division of the bill so that they can vote against the abolition of the 11-kilos rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164229	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164232	There's something here we need to solve. When Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says that the Left supports this because you want to implement the road package, how can this be linked to the fact that you have chosen not to implement the entire road package, but only parts of it? Obviously, you can read in the consultation answers, not only from the workers' organisations 3F and FH, but also from the employers' organisation DTL, that if you do not get third-country driving, there will still be an open door into the EU from low-wage countries. Why not implement the road package as it is intended?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164308	Well, it is our view that the government has taken the road package as it is and as it has been adopted in the European Union, and then the bill has simply been drawn up on that basis. I do not see that the government with this has gone against the road package or against the spirit of the road package. However, if the SF is in doubt about this, one has to ask about it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164327	Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164328	It is not really about anything as far-reaching as the spirit of anything. This is actually about sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen himself in his speech says that we must do this in order to create fair conditions. How can we do this if we still have a huge gate open to social dumping because we do not guarantee third country transport, which is explicitly specified by both employees' organisations and employers' organisations? This is an amputated implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164357	Now it is the government that has put forward a bill here for implementing the road package, so I will hand it over to the minister who will come on later. That must be where it needs to be addressed. However, as I said, we support the implementation of the road package that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164415	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164416	Oh, it's a little easy to get rid of it that way, I'd say to Mr. Simpson. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Because this is precisely about the road package not being that we do not think Kristian Pihl Lorentzen can say: it is really positive, we are in favour of that and it implements the road package. Because it doesn't actually.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164524	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164525	Well, we actually have a government that I think has a rather close dialogue with the trade union movement, and I assume that there has also been a dialogue before this bill, and that is why one has to ask the government why this has not been included. I assume that this is an implementation of both the wording and the spirit of the European Union's road package, and that is why the Minister has to answer whether there is any possibility of going further in relation to the road package. What is at the heart of the Left is that we have the same framework conditions across borders in Europe, and we are also very concerned about getting things sorted out, and that is why these rules must be applied equally in the countries, because there is nothing worse than rules that are not enforced. Then it's almost better not to have rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164609	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164610	Yes, but if you had sat down and read the consultation answers, not least those from 3F and DTL, for example, you would have seen that there are owls in the bog. That is why I cannot understand why we are being so bold about saying: this is what we support, and it complements the road package. Well, you can't just pass it on to the government like that. Of course, it is the Minister of Transport who has the right of initiative here, but you are allowed to take a critical view of what you see and read. And when somebody points out that this is an incomplete implementation of the road package, I suppose we have to do some kind of civil war.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164659	Well, it is Enhedslisten in his right to do so, but if you read the consultation note, the Minister may confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164715	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164727	Thank you. I am filling in for our normal rapporteur, Hans Kristian Skibby, here today. The proposal stems from the EU road package, which contains changed conditions for the pursuit of the occupation of road transport operator, access to the road haulage market, requirements for the basic working conditions of foreign drivers and new rules on the control of companies. The proposal makes necessary amendments to road transport legislation for the implementation of parts of the road package which apply from February and May 2022. In the Danish People's Party we basically care about the well-being and working conditions of drivers, both Danish and foreign drivers. We have a major focus on compliance with health and safety rules and workers' rights. We see the road package as a good step in the right direction. We are not in line with the adoption of L 62, but we are one step closer. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are in favour of the bill and will follow the proposal up to the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164823	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164825	I am fully aware that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl is not the rapporteur on this issue, and that is why, of course, I am not going to chase the rapporteur around in the corners and in the details of this proposal. However, I would like to ask how much attention is being paid in the Danish People's Party to the fact that a situation such as the Padborg camp we witnessed does not happen again in Denmark. Is it something that is of great importance to the Danish People's Party to prevent this kind of blatant exploitation, cynical exploitation of poor third country citizens to drive trucks in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164904	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164904-2	As Mr. Karsten Hønge also says that I am not the rapporteur in this area, and that is not what I usually deal with most, but we are very concerned that such problems cannot be there and that we will get it solved. That is why I would just like to pass it on to our normal rapporteur and ask him to take it up in the course of the legislative process on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164925	Thank you. Does the rapporteur wish to make a further brief comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164928	I can first of all welcome the fact that you actually have a normal rapporteur in the Danish People's Party; it is always nice to have. But the fact that you don't avoid future Padborg camps if you don't make sure that driving from third countries is covered by this law is then a message that Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl can take along.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164951	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117164952	Well, thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge the message that I will pass on to our normal rapporteur in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165000	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165009	This ad is from a newspaper in the Philippines, and it shows that Danish employers hire drivers to drive goods within Europe. On 2 March 2017, I had convened the then Transport Minister in consultation to have initiatives taken against Danish truckers using a cat hatch they had scored in the door to the EU. It is, in fact, the rather clever maneuver that some Danish employers typically use with a mailbox company in an eastern EU country to draw underpaid, subdued, disciplined drivers from the Philippines, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Belarus onto European roads. We have free movement within the European Union, but we do not have free movement into the European Union, where we saw in the situation that drivers from the Philippines to 10, 15, 20 DKK. The wage competition makes it completely impossible for Danish or other Western European drivers. We know the situation from the notorious camp in Padborg, which shows that there is no lower bottom for how miserable some employers are willing to treat their employees when there is just a quick profit within reach. SF fights against social dumping on the roads, and we will do everything we can to ensure Danish pay and working conditions in this country, and long before it became publicly known, we had a focus on the totally unacceptable conditions of the road haulage company Kurt Beier and the circumvention that took place through Polish subsidiaries. A big thank you to the trade union 3F, the magazine 3F and the freight club under 3F. An urgent request on the Padborg case and Filipino drivers led to the adoption by the Danish Parliament of V 5 on foreign drivers in Europe, which was adopted by a unanimous Parliament on 18 November 2018. The adoption was accompanied by a number of amendments. In EU negotiations, the government must place decisive emphasis on Danish pay and working conditions in relation to&#x2;see with third country traffic to, as well as cabotage and combined transport in Denmark. The goal is controlled, not free be&#x2;mobility! That was the adoption, and when the road transport package was later adopted, we saw it as a victory in the fight against social dumping, and we had been looking forward to the implementation, which is going to happen with this bill, but unfortunately, and together with 3F, FH and DTL, we are very much wondering how the draft law, in terms of cost level and posting alone, envisages drivers carrying out cabotage and combined transport, and not bilateral international transports, so-called third-country transport, which road transport actually involves. We thought that this package would give backwheels to social dumping, but yesterday I spoke to the Vice-President of the 3F country club, Robert Grandt Jakobsen, who says: this is far from good enough; on the contrary, it is the guarantee for new Padborg camps. After all, the Padborg case was about third-country driving, and these are the loopholes in this practice that we have fought to put an end to, and which we actually celebrated together with the road transport package. We therefore believe that this is not a proper or adequate implementation of the road transport package. It is clear that the SF supports the other elements of the bill, but the draft law is flawed, and we will therefore take the initiative for an amendment, so that the applicable rules in the Posting of Workers Act will be subject to minimum remuneration for posted drivers, which was adopted in the Folketing in 2020, with the same reasons as in the case of cabotage and combined transports, applicable to non-bilateral international transports. Danish drivers should not be thrown out of the trucks because of skewed and unfair competition from low-wage countries. We must not put up with social dumping. Employers are laughing all the way to the bank, while cheap drivers are being exploited and working conditions are being pushed downwards throughout Western Europe. The spiral towards the bottom is turned another round, and rest places all over Europe are windows into poor parallel societies. They are a mirror of the increased inequality in which drivers work, live and live in the cabs for weeks, yes, for months, and the food is prepared by primitive gas flares and the lonely hours are killed by television from the home country through a satellite dish on the truck. We must not put up with inequality where employers are the winners and the workers are the losers. A working underclass from low-wage countries sits split in each of their trucks and we need better common rules and they need to be enforced. Employers need to be hit on the wallet if the rules are broken, and then we need not just legislation like the one we are implementing today, hopefully with improvements in the road package, but with a single road package at EU level. I would just like to say in conclusion: mailbox companies and cat hatches must be nailed to, the European Union is the hammer and nails are the rights of the workers. There is a need for fair transport, as they say in 3F. This is bullshit, government.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165535	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165537	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge for a committed and colorful speech, even including logo to season with. It's okay. It's okay. Now SF is talking about Danish drivers not being thrown out of the cabs. I agree with that, which is why I would just like to ask quite specifically: how many unemployed Danish drivers are there at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165604	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165604-2	Fortunately, a great many drivers are needed in Europe, and that is there as long as we can defend the pay and working conditions that we have in Denmark and Western Europe respectively. But it is certain that if we continue to accept mailbox companies in Eastern Europe and those mailbox companies pull underpaid drivers in from, for example. The Philippines or Ukraine, it is a twist towards the bottom of the labour market in Western Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165634	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165637	As you know, we fully agree on the objective of orderly conditions and fair conditions of competition. That is what we have worked hard for with the road package. But the situation is, of course, that we are missing thousands of drivers at the moment, including in Denmark. Then I'm gonna ask you if mr. Karsten Hønge has read the consultation note, in which the Minister replies to this question of third country driving, and where he says that the Ministry of Transport considers that if third country driving is to be included in the cost level, it requires a common approach from the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165714	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165715	Yes, I have read that very much, and I intend to confront the Minister of Transport with it later on. As I said, this bill is simply for poor socialists. And the thing about pawning your policy with the employers is totally lame.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165729	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would recommend that no direct indictment be used, as has just been the case. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117165740	I want to strike down two things in this bill. It's a little bit about the 11-kilos rule. It has turned out that it is a rule that is not controlled if you are to believe those who have to control it, namely the police. It is not possible to control it, and there are a great many ways of circumventing it. This was made very clear by the survey we received from the Ministry of Transport last week, I think it was. We think that we should take this and let reason guide us. It's no good having rules that don't allow themselves to be controlled. They're as good as nothing. The rule came in as a request from not least Danish Newspaper Distribution, DAO, but we think that perhaps instead of listening to e.g. the goods transporters who are trying to create proper conditions. They are very fond of DTL, and they are in order and can tell almost daily how the rules are being dealt with and how they are exposed to unfair competition. And that's what this is about. It is about having fair competition, and it is about social dumping, which is a widespread phenomenon in the area of goods transport. I also think there is something else to be taken into account. It's also DTL in their hearing answer, where they actually write that the increase in the weight limit, which is also part of this bill, on vans from 2,000 kg to 2,500 kg is part of a compromise compared to precisely the 11-kilos rule. I think that should be noted and therefore, I think, come to some sense about the 11-kilos rule. Then there is the second point: the implementation of the road package. I fully agree with Mr Seligman's point of view. Karsten Hønge's remarks about it. It is clear that it is the 3F consultation answer that calls for attention. It can be said that the bill here, which was supposed to implement the road package, includes cabotage and combined transport alone. It does not contain third country traffic, although it can be said that it was the whole starting point that created the whole situation that caused us to amend the law on the carriage of goods with a view to the level of wages and working conditions for foreign drivers, and there are also proposals for adoption No. V 5, which also Mr. Karsten Hønge has quoted from. We really think that the EU rules here are quite clear when you look at the Posting of Workers Directive. Only regular bilateral transport and transit operations are excluded from the Posting of Workers Directive. The rules therefore apply to both cabotage and combined transport, and this is part of the legislative proposal, but this also applies to what is called non-bilateral transport in the European Union language. And if you are in doubt, you can look in the Posting of Workers Directive and look in the preamble No. 13 and 14 on pay and working conditions and in No. 22, which refers to the control of the rules on secondment. In the consultation note, it is also as if the Ministry of Transport recognises that it may not be so clever. We are talking about this, and we are not refusing to include third country traffic in the future, but that requires, as is also the exchange of words between Mr Beazley and Mr Beazley. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and Mr. Karsten Hønge showed a call from the social partners. I myself think it has been a little sought when the DA and, for that matter, the DI in the transport sector, even though they are a little more woolly, I would say, use it as a justification in their hearing answer, because the whole exercise here is to try to stem wage dumping and social dumping at all. It is a question of regulating pay conditions, including in the case of third-country driving. There has never really been any doubt about that. So we think there is a lack of implementation of the road package and we are quite sure that this will lead to some kind of letter of formal notice. That is why we also believe, and we will certainly be very keen to do so in committee, that we should focus on this issue of third-country driving. We want a review of whether this really is the implementation of the road package that must take place in, among other things. the law on the carriage of goods by road.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170250	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170257	Thank you so much. I shall be brief, because a lot of that has already been said in this debate, and I think that many of you remember my views on the law on goods transport in general terms. We look forward to following the committee procedure and, in the first place, we welcome the first part, that is, the implementation of the European Union's road package. And I want to say that we will also follow this with crosstrade, which is in this and which DTL has been very forward with. With regard to the second part about the 11-kilos rule, I do not think anyone is in any doubt that, as it stands at the moment, we cannot support that part. That is why we will also be asking for the legislative proposal to be split into two parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170342	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170346	I can hardly imagine anything more than that, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen is in favour of fair competition between companies. It is incredibly difficult for a business community in a country such as Denmark, which is a high-wage country, to compete with other countries and between each other if you do not ensure that you have a kind of fair conditions to compete on. What do the Conservatives really think should be done when an employer's organization says here that third country driving must follow the level of the countries in which transport is carried out, so that it is simply a crux of this argument that fair and equal competition with companies is achieved? Then no one should be tempted to do what we saw in the Kurt Beier case and in the Padborg camp.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170430	Now the Kurt Beier case was not a Danish case. It was a German drive that was in there. But that does not change the fact that it is part of the European Union's road package. I would say that we are in favour of fair and fair working and pay conditions. I do not think there is any doubt about that either, and we also see the possibility here of treatment, as I said, in other words of deepening the issue of cross trade, namely third-country driving.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170456	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170457	Well, I thought it was really interesting that sir... Niels Flemming Hansen says precisely that the Padborg case was indeed in relation to Germany. Exactly. That is why this law will be a totally inadequate implementation because it does not deal with third country traffic. So by adopting this bill without any change, it's just with a guarantee to say yes to future Padborg camps and thus unfair competition between companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170524	Well, then, I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Karsten Hønge in his red T-shirt with logos on it stands up and says he hasn't really listened to what I said. For what I said was that we are in favour as a starting point, but we are looking forward to following the committee procedure on the issue of cross trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170542	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170547	I'm gonna ask you about that 11-kilos rule. And I'm asking because I'm wondering if sir... Niels Flemming Hansen is completely argument-resistant when we talk about that 11-kilos rule. As far as I know, people from the Conservative People's Party usually have very great respect for the police and, in this case, also the National Police. And they argue that they cannot control this and that there are so many circumvention options. We have seen the examples of this last week at a meeting of the Ministry of Transport, where Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen was unfortunately not present, but I would urge him, if there is an opportunity, to come in and help to see how it can actually be dealt with and how impossible it is to control and thus in this case listen to the expertise or reason, instead of being so impulsive to hold on to it or be in the pocket of • to put it plainly • THE EVIDENCE.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170703	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170704	I am now pleased to be accused of being in the pocket of the DISCUSSION. I have to say that I am not in the pocket of anyone, and certainly not the EVIDENCE. But Mr. Henning Hyllested is absolutely right that there was a meeting last week. Unfortunately, as rapporteur with relatively many rapporteurs, I did not have the opportunity to participate, but I know that there will be an opportunity in the relatively near future to discuss this with the police and perhaps see it for myself, and I will look forward to participating in it if there is any chance of doing so when we have the dates.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170736	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170737	Well, of course, it may seem a bit grossly accusing when I say that you are in someone's pocket, but that is because we are dealing here with the police, who are the ones holding their fingers in the dough, if I may say very, very clearly telling us that this is not controlled. Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen really that it is sensible to have rules and legislation for that matter, which is not controlled and where there are very, very many possibilities of circumvention? It is therefore the expertise that says that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170810	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170811	Now I have to say that no, Mr. Henning Hylllested also good I'm not. And when we talk about being in the pockets of people, I have to say that there are trade unions in this country who have enjoyed very, very well the goods traffic law and its entry into force, all too well. It is, after all, a monopoly for a particular union. The 11-kilos rule has been a bulwark against the fact that the legislation had even more far-reaching consequences, and the 11-kilos rule now gives goods vehicles between 2,000 kg and 3,500 kg, which supply small packages or goods of a maximum of 11 kg piece goods, the possibility of being exempted from the authorisation requirement of the goods transport law. Then don't talk to me, sir. Henning Hyllested, about being in the pocket of someone. I'm being insulted!
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170859	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next one on the platform is the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117170920	Yeah, I brought the big commute. This is a comprehensive legislative proposal that we are working on here. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law, which I consider to be the crown of the work when it comes to the long struggle that we have fought together to ensure good framework conditions in the EU road transport sector. In June 2020, the EU road package was adopted after three years of intensive negotiations. The adoption was and is a major and important step in the right direction for the EU road transport sector, which, with its cross-border nature, has experienced unfair competition and poor working conditions for many years. For this reason, I am pleased that we are at last faced with the implementation of the most profound change in the framework conditions for EU road transport, which we have seen for many years, and I would like to remind you that the broad support that has been in the Folketing for this has been essential in order to ensure that this work came through in the European Union. Indeed, the road package has been something that changing governments have fought for, and it has helped to ensure fair and equal conditions of competition in the EU road transport sector and, at the same time, to strengthen the working conditions of drivers who transport goods on EU roads. In concrete terms, for example, the road package will strengthen the establishment requirements in order to limit the operation of the mailbox companies. This will limit access to cabotage and, above all, ensure that drivers' long rests are kept in suitable accommodation and on the company's account for more than 45 hours. In addition, the road package will clearly define when drivers are considered to be posted. There have, of course, been a few comments on the question of, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the debate here, and I will try briefly to outline a little of what has also been stated in the consultation note, but also to begin with, Mr President. Henning Hyllested's call for a technical review, because if you are going to go deeper, as I think there may be a need to understand the more legal balance, then I think it would actually be useful for there not only to be representatives of my ministry, but possibly also representatives of the Ministry of Employment, with a detailed assessment of these things. But basically, from an overall approach, it must be said, as the draft law also shows, that the rules on posting cover all types of driving. That's what Mr. Karsten Hønge and Mr. Henning Hyllested has pointed out the issue of cost level. As has also been mentioned, among other things. first with reference to the goods traffic law, then it is national that means that the part dealing with posting is about the other requirements. What's about cost levels, etc., is national. As many people will remember, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen also mentioned that a joint call was made by the social partners to ensure the framework conditions in this area. On the basis of this, a broad majority in the Folketing ensured a change in the law on the carriage of goods, which was intended precisely to control and control wage conditions. The Conservatives are then outside that for the reasons Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen mentioned, but nevertheless it was a very broad majority in the Folketing that ended up implementing what the social partners expressed. That is why the approach here is the same, as it also shows, so that if we want to have supervision of the remuneration requirement, which in this case is a national set of rules, it could come about on the basis of a joint call from the social partners. In other words, it is not directly related to the road package. Does that mean it can't be done? No, it can. But this presupposes that, like what was at the root of the work ahead of the law on goods transport, there is a corresponding work among the social partners, and that is what one can choose to do. As I have said, the Danish model, which is based on the need to extend these national rules, will be taken into account if there is a common approach on the part of the social partners, and one cannot deny that such a one will come. If that were to happen, I have an expected assumption that those parties that helped to make changes to the law on goods transport will also be prepared to discuss such a subject. In any case, I do not think we could ignore that in any way whatsoever; no government could ignore that, nor could a responsible majority in the Folketing be ignored. Nevertheless, I think it would be very useful for us also to examine carefully, in the context of the legislative process, why it is that this is so and what the reasons are for us to conclude, as we do, in the consultation note, and that I reply here at the outset, as I do. At any rate, I would very much like us to dress each other carefully in relation to this, because the whole point of this bill is precisely to implement the rules that we have agreed on pan-European. Then perhaps I would just like to say that, of course, it is also very important that, with our work in Denmark, we also ensure that other countries do the same, and thus ensure that these rules apply throughout Europe. That is why, of course, we are also extremely aware of the fact that we are implementing this package, this EU package, as accurately and accurately as possible, and that is why I can guarantee with serenity that if there is the least Mr. Henning Hyllested mentioned some issues that you would like to have assessed, we will of course ensure it, because we have only one interest to ensure that we are the doll in the class, literally, because by our example we would also be able to influence other countries to implement the EU's road package in as precise a way as possible. After all, it is also Denmark, which has been the driving force behind the road package in the first place. Well, that's a little bit about it. As a result of the new road package's requirement for international goods transport in vans, I also felt it appropriate to propose amendments to the national rules on the carriage of goods in the same transport. The aim of the bill is therefore to implement the regulations of the road package into Danish law and to amend national rules on the carriage of goods so that they are more consistent with the EU requirements introduced by the road package. In addition, the amendment of the national rules on the carriage of goods by road will help to ensure equal competition for all persons transporting goods for hire or reward in goods vehicles over 2,500 kg, regardless of the weight of the package being transported. I would have hoped here that a greater proportion of the parliamentary parties would have expressed their support for the proposal to amend the national rules on the carriage of goods. Especially from the bourgeois part of the Folketing, I lack the support to ensure equal competition opportunities and equal conditions of competition. In fact, I thought that a level playing field was a matter for the bourgeois parties. Of course, I believe that it is untenable that we have rules which our authorities openly state are difficult to enforce in practice and that it is the weight of the goods being transported that determines whether or not they are covered by an authorisation system. Of course, one can take the view that it should not be a barrier to driving goods at a foreign expense, that one has a massive debt to the public sector, or that one has some basic skills which have been demonstrated in the form of courses and which are a prerequisite for obtaining permission to drive goods. I just have to admit, honestly, that I find it difficult to imagine that it is the sincere attitude, including that of the bourgeois parties, that it should be so. I am in fact starting from the assumption that I have always assumed that civil parties too would prefer not to owe substantial money to the public sector and that they lived up to such normal good trade and good practice and so on. Nevertheless, as several have mentioned, among other things. Mr. Henning Hylllested and Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, I have also indicated to the rapporteurs, before this legal procedure, that there will be an opportunity at a time when the police will be able to follow the action of the police in relation to this in their own eyes. This kind of thing comes unprepared, and it is, in fact, part of the purpose of the control that we should not know when it is there, but I am convinced that we must find an opportunity whereby, in the field of field studies, we also have the possibility of being able to understand the specific complications which make the 11-kilos rule virtually ineffective and uncontrollable. And I can also say now, in order not to upset anyone's expectations, that I still have the benefit of seeing pizza deliveries made with vans over 2,500 kg. It is also the case that it is still a mystery to me, where newspaper distribution with cars weighing more than 2,500 kg should be made in the country. I have great respect for the desire to take account of pizza driving, newspaper distribution and various other things. I am of the clear conviction that by setting the weight limit at 2,500 kg we have found exactly the balance that takes account of the concerns of a great many of the bourgeois rapporteurs and, on the other hand, also ensures that we do not cheat on the weight when it comes to driving goods at a foreign expense. This does not mean that we cannot discuss these matters in more concrete terms. We can then do that in the following, because it may well be that there are other proposals from the bourgeois side as to how it might be possible to include them here. It is not the case that, as a minister, I am argument-resistant. I would say, however, that it would be an advantage to argue with some concerns, as there actually are, if I may say, and apologize for the play of words, i.e. that there is actually a concern, and here we will find something other than the pizza, unless you eat some incredibly large family pizza, I suppose. Nevertheless, it has been a very good debate. It has sketched out some of the issues, and this shows that there is a need for some of the things we drill out further, and that we are looking very, very carefully at these issues, which are about where it is something that is about the road package and where there is something that is limited in relation to the Danish labour market model. I shall see to it that this is done as quickly as possible, because of course we will have to go into more detail, and that is why I would like to thank you for your comments at the moment, and I look forward, of course, to the further discussion here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172309	Thank you, Minister. This gave rise to three brief comments. The first one's from sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172317	The government must decide which side to stand on. And I don't think it must be very difficult when you're a socialist. I have been to the Social Democrats' website, where they also write: "Last-car drivers live pitiful lives in Danish and European rest places, because they are exploited by road hauliers who go all the way to the edge of what they can afford. ▪ I also think you have to decide as a government: If you want to comply with the proposal for adoption that we adopted here in the Danish Parliament in 2018, V 5, which states: "In EU negotiations, the government must place a decisive emphasis on Danish pay and working conditions in connection with • • and that is the first one to be mentioned • third country services, as well as cabotage and combined transport in Denmark. In addition, we can add the consultation answers from 3F, and it is the people who actually sit in the cabs, from FH, who organize the employees in Denmark, and also from the employer's organization DTL • Danske Vægnmander. Which side does the government stand on? Is it really over with the one organisation that believes it can put a stop to this, namely the Danish Employers' Association, which has already said in the hearings that they are not going to contribute to a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172420	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172422	We are in line with the Danish model, of course, and I am of course in favour of it. That is also why it is this government, which, fortunately, by a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament has adopted the law on the carriage of goods by road, which precisely ensures and introduces the supervision of remuneration requirements. It is a national set of rules, and the national set of rules, yes, can be extended, but since it is not about the EU road package, but about a national set of rules that has been introduced following a call from the social partners, it is clear that the door of the government is completely open for the social partners to agree on this in a negotiation or other way, for example. Be. There should be no doubt that, of course, I also have the expectation that the majority, the very broad majority of the Danish Parliament, who was ready to vote in order to implement the law on goods transport, and that was a rather complicated course of negotiations, but eventually it will also be ready to follow a similar call, it should come.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172532	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172533	I don't give much for that reference to the Danish model in this context, because if it really is so important to the Minister, how can the Social Democrats vote for V 5 in 2018, which explicitly states that we should have third-country driving covered by rules on Danish pay and working conditions? It shows that it's a skin argument. The thing is, if you don't go beyond the fact that the Danish Employers' Association is going to be a stop-block, nothing will happen in this. That is why, as a government, we have to say: we stand by the proposal for adoption, V 5, from 2018, and, by the way, the concerns of these organisations. And one last thing I want to say is: how about dealing with what the Vice-President of the National Club of Gods Drivers of 3F, Robert Grandt Jakobsen, says, namely that the only thing this law guarantees is more Padborg camps?
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172616	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172617	We can't act on the gut. It may be that Mr. Karsten Hønge prefers it, but we have to start with the Danish model and the clear legal boundaries that are in relation to it. So let's get this straight, then, too, sir. Karsten Hønge feels safe in this. And then we must clearly call on the social partners to agree that, if this is so important, then we must negotiate it. But that is why we have the demarcation we have. That is also why we have adopted a road haulage law at the request of the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172652	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172656	There is, in fact, a guide: the European Union's guide on national implementation and information on posting rules, pay conditions and fair conditions of competition, as is so well known in that language down there. However, that document shows very clearly how the EU Control Directive and the EU Posting of Workers Directive are actually to be implemented, including how to enforce that Member States comply with the requirement to pay the so-called sectorial salary rate for posted workers. I therefore believe that this is not entirely in line with the argument put forward by the Minister that this is purely national. In our view, this is not the case; it is also very much a matter for the European Union, which, of course, it interferes with and has to monitor compliance with. And, of course, third country driving is covered by the posting to which this guide also applies.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172806	As I said, it makes very good sense for us to give the rapporteurs full insight into why the assessment made on this issue comes to the conclusion that the enforcement directive does not apply to the Danish national rules on cost levels and that therefore there is no national obligation to include third-country services at cost level. But that does not change what I think I have said several times now, namely that if, within the Danish labour market system, we agree to make a similar call in this area, as we have done in the past, which led to the amendment we made to the road haulage law and which I think is a very good amendment to the road haulage law, then I do not see anything preventing us from doing so either. However, in respect of the Danish labour market model, we must also recognise that this is a national matter which is based on the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172915	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117172916	Again, I would like to say to the Minister that this is not just a national matter, at least not in our opinion. After all, the Posting of Workers Directive refers to national pay conditions, and then there is the whole system of guidance on how this should be enforced, and reference is made to this sector-specific wage rate. So I think it is quite clear that there is an EU aspect to this and, of course, there is also a national pay aspect to it. But, of course, we have fixed national wages and, when you refer to them, it is of course because these agreements must be enforced with the directives in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173004	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173005	As I said, I would very much like to ensure that both Mr. Henning Hyllested and everyone else are given a full look at why we have reached the conclusions and what some references are about, including why there are some special things that apply in the Danish labour market model, which in some cases, it has to be said, puts us in a slightly different situation than other countries are necessarily in. But that does not change the fact that I have the deepest respect for it, including, of course, if employers and employees agree to make an appeal. Then, of course, it will always be something that the government is sensitive to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173047	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173051	Thank you very much. I know, of course, that the Minister is a well-read gentleman and has also seen the articles that have been written in common from the blue block, and thus may also have seen that other parties have become wiser in relation to the goods traffic law, in that it says that the 2019 law was a bad case, but the 11-kilos rule ensured that it could be handled. In relation to the 11-kilos rule, I would like to know whether the Minister has thought about and has an opinion on this: that simple distribution tasks such as the distribution of family pizza or the regular pizza and newspaper distribution, which will after all require a goods transport permit, will adversely affect the supply of work and increase the lack of drivers in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173143	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173144	Yes, well, all the time that I haven't yet noticed if you put the weight limit of 2,500 kg so that what is covered are vehicles between 2,500 kg and 3,500 kg... have seen someone lead something that just resembles a proof of truth that there should be a single pizza or other equivalent that couldn't be shipped to any Danish home, I have to say that then I don't see it as a challenge. And that's probably why I'm not, that's not enough for that. That is why, with this, we have proposed the compromise, which we must remember is that we are raising the weight limit from 2 000 to 2,500 kg. It is precisely to ensure that these small deliveries are thus freed, and of course I would have hoped that you could see the sense in that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173248	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173250	I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister has raised the weight requirement for cars, and that is certainly a step in the right direction. So from here I would say that I hope that we, the various parties in the Folketing, can put ourselves together during committee proceedings and find the right solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173308	Well, that was very edifying. And as I have said, I am not a resistance to argument, so if it is the case that we can also see in other ways that we can ensure that what may be a concern can also be addressed, that would be very good. Finally, for the sake of good order, let me just say that I have found that there are many who have used the element around the working environment as a small message about that with the 11-kilos rule, and I have seen many drivers who have several packages with them, who weighed just about 10.9 kg, and then you are just as far off if you are dragging around the same amount of goods, but just with several packages. So I think that's also a rather bad argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173359	Thank you very much to the Minister for Transport; no one else has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211117173416	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 18 November 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
