ParlaMint-DK_20211027130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 51 (Proposal for a law amending the law amending the law on criminal law for Greenland and the law on the administration of justice for Greenland). Bill No. L 52 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Passport of Danish Nationals, etc.) and the Central Personal Register Act. Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 53 (Proposal for a law amending the law on electricity supply and various other laws. Minister for Economic Affairs (Simon Kollerup): Bill No. L 54 (Proposal for a Law on the identification of shareholders, disclosure of information and facilitation of the exercise of shareholders' rights). Minister for Employment (Mattia Tesfaye, fg.): Bill No. L 55 (Proposal for a law amending the law on maternity compensation.(Regulation of the rate of contribution to the maternity compensation scheme) Marcus Knuth (KF) and Niels Flemming Hansen (KF): Request no. 9 (Will the Minister explain how it could happen that the Minister was not aware of a summary of the content of the weekly reports by the Danish Chief of Force in Kabul, now that these described a much more critical situation in early summer than the one which the Minister presented to the Foreign Policy Counsel in June and the parties of the Danish Parliament on 9 August, and what the Minister has done to change the process of how the Minister and the Danish Parliament are receiving correct intelligence so that this information is not misguided in the future?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20211027130120	For a reason for the question, the rapporteur for the questioners is Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027130123	Thank you for that, President. If you now came from outside and looked at the Danish alien law, you would see that there is a three-year rule for family reunification for people with temporary protection needs. Then you will think, okay, that it will take three years, from the time you arrive and have been granted asylum, to get a possible spouse to Denmark. But that is not the case in the real world, because the government has chosen not to follow the Danish alien law and has chosen to allow these people to seek family reunification after two years. Then you might think that it is strange that we have legislation in Denmark that says one, but we have a government that then puts a different policy into practice. The fact is that Denmark is part of the European Convention on Human Rights and therefore also feels obliged to follow the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights to some extent. This summer there was a judgment against a Syrian who said that the three-year rule was not in line with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. And that's why the government decided a few weeks ago to correct and say: Well, then we'll scrap the Danish three-year rule. But can the government just do that? Can the government just choose to say that there is a 2-year rule without discussing it with the Danish Parliament, without having negotiations with the Danish Parliament's parties about it? Paragraph 1: Should we just follow the decision of the European Court of Human Rights? Paragraph 2: If we have to, does it say that it has to be a 2-year rule in the future or is there any other option? And if there are other options, does the government have the right to decide, on its own, that there is one particular way to solve the task in relation to the verdict, and then you just go after it? Or doesn't the government really have an obligation to go to the Folketing and say: Hey, in the Aliens Act there is one, we need to have a talk in the Folketing about how we're gonna do this job? We think it is a very fundamental issue and something that the Folketing will have to take very seriously, and that is why we have called for this urgent question. I am glad that it is possible to thank the Minister for running. And we look forward to hearing the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027130340	Thank you. That was the explanatory statement, and we shall now have the answer. That is why it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027130347	Thank you for the floor to the President, and thank you for the calls for urgent debate. It is a question that has been asked with reference to what is called the M.A. judgment, which was handed down by the European Court of Human Rights, EMD, on 9 July 2021, i.e. at the beginning of the Danish summer holiday. It is the Court of Justice's Grand Chamber that has delivered the judgment, and it is the chamber where there are 17 judges. 16 out of the 17 judges found that Denmark has violated what is called Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and that is what concerns respect for private and family life. The judgment deals with the so-called three-year rule of the Aliens Act, which means that a refugee with temporary protection status can, as a rule, only be brought together with his or her spouse and children after three years. The Court found that the three-year rule did not meet the requirement of proportionality, at least as long as we do not have a mass influx of new asylum seekers. I do not want to hide the fact that, of course, I would have liked the judgment to have had a different result. However, the Court recognises that we can have a two-year rule for foreigners with temporary protection status, which means that, as a general rule, residence permits must be granted for the purpose of family reunification only when the resident has had temporary protection status for at least two years. Equally important is the fact that the Court of Justice does not deny that, in the event of a mass influx of new asylum seekers, we can again go up to three years. After all, I think this is positive, because it means that the asylum policy, which a broad majority across the Folketing is behind, has not got off the rails with this judgment. Although we had wanted a different outcome, we in the government intend to comply with the judgment. It is a clear legal assessment that, with the current asylum figures, there is no other way than to allow family reunification for refugees with temporary protection status after 2 years instead of after 3 years, if the other conditions are otherwise met, and the authorities have therefore now started to administer in accordance with the judgment. Thus, in cases where the resident refugee has had temporary protection status for 2 years and where the other conditions are also met, the Foreigners' Board will grant spouses and children a residence permit according to what is called Paragraph 9c of the Aliens' Act. This is the provision used to comply with Denmark's international obligations when there is no other legal basis in the Aliens' Act. The three-year rule is therefore still in the Aliens Act, and it does so until the Folketing had to adopt something else. However, it is not true that the law expresses a legal situation that is not really applicable, and that is why, as I have also written to the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the Folketing, the government will, in this parliamentary year, put forward a draft law proposing that the three-year rule be changed to a two-year rule. At the same time, I would also like to propose the introduction of a provision authorising the Minister for Foreign Affairs to reactivate the three-year rule in the event of a mass influx of asylum seekers to Denmark at any time. It is assessed that such a scheme will be in line with the judgment and therefore with Denmark's international obligations. Such a power will allow a flexible response both if a new mass influx occurs and when the influx decreases again. The draft law will have a normal period of consultation before it is tabled, and the Folketing will then be able to devote the necessary time to a thorough examination and clarification of all the issues that may arise. As many of you know, I have also already invited the party rapporteurs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Friday, where there will be an opportunity to ask further about the judgment and the legal assessment, perhaps some more technical questions, but also the legal assessment that has been made and which has been sent to the Folketing on 1 October this year. I can also see that some written questions have been asked and called for consultation in the Folketing. Let me conclude by saying that the government will continue to do what is possible to ensure that the number of asylum seekers for Denmark is controlled. The asylum figures are historically low in these years and there should be no doubt that the government will do everything possible to maintain the low asylum rates, even if we see increases in asylum figures in our neighbouring countries. But all this must, of course, be done in respect of the decisions of the courts regarding the international obligations that we have agreed to. Fortunately, one does not exclude the other. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027130832	Thank you. Now I will try to spread the time so that we reach everything within the two hours, and also so that the minister can get back on the platform. In the first place, only the general rapporteurs have the opportunity to ask a question, and I choose you as you volunteer. That's why it's first, sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027130851	Thank you very much. After all, I find it totally unacceptable that the Minister should begin to relax in such an important area of the Aliens Act as the rules of family reunification. The minister will report it to the Ministry's website at 8:00. 18.00 a Friday evening without even consulting the parties that are actually behind the current legislation. Of course, we must take note of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, but then we shall probably sit down with the parties behind the current rules and discuss it. I have only one question, but perhaps I should ask the Minister two questions. Firstly, why does the Minister not involve the parties? Secondly, if it is necessary to relax, as the Minister intends, will the Minister do something to tighten other parts of the immigration legislation so that the overall picture of Danish immigration policy remains the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027130939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027130940	I would like to start by saying in relation to the matter of posting it on the website: we will send a legal statement to the Danish Parliament and issue a press release. I find it difficult to see that this can be done in any other way. In the legislative proposal we are going to put forward, we are going to propose that the Danish law on foreigners should be placed at the edge of what the conventions allow, which is two years old. This does not prevent us from tightening the law on foreigners in all sorts of other areas, and the rest of the government's legislative programme, or at least a large part of it, is also about tightening the law on aliens on the rules on expulsion and on all sorts of other areas. We are fully committed to discussing this, but we just need to ensure that what is in the law is also in line with the international conventions that we have signed. That is why we are going to put forward this very narrow and simple legislative proposal, which is only about changing the three-year rule into a two-year rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131032	Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131034	A very important reason for doing the tightening we were doing at the time was the attraction that Denmark might have on refugees coming to Europe. Well, you knew that if you chose Denmark, it would take a long time before you could become more. And we were successful in tightening up so much that we became a much less attractive place. Does the Minister have any idea how many will now choose Denmark, precisely because we go back to the old 2-year rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131113	I agree that much of the legislation adopted in 2015, 2016 and 2017 has helped to reduce the number of asylum seekers in Denmark and it has been positive, just as I believe that the current policy of including residence permits and refusing to extend them also has an impact on how many people are seeking to travel to Denmark, and, like an effective return policy, which reduces the number of rejected asylum seekers, helps to reduce the number of asylum seekers to Denmark. It is difficult to say whether this is really important, because it is a judgment that will affect all European countries. After Denmark adopted this three-year rule, not exactly the same thing has been done, but something similar in other European countries, among others. Sweden believes it or not. And they will also be subject to the judgments that fall. So it is not just a judgment that affects Denmark; it also affects our neighbouring countries. But I will not hide the fact that in the weeks after the fall of Afghanistan or the fall of Kabul, I have been extremely interested in the number of asylum seekers. It is still low and we see no dramatic development. However, we are actually doing so in our neighbouring countries, so I would not be surprised if we too were to be affected over the coming period.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131218	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131219	The ruling against Denmark this summer is, after all, a matter that has previously been at the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court considered that the three-year rule in relation to the Syrians in question was in accordance with Denmark's obligations under the ECHR. How, then, can the Ministry immediately simply come to the conclusion that the case is an indication that Denmark is now allowed to make a two-year rule, that is to say that there is no other option than to make a two-year rule? Because I am assuming that, if it is indisputable that this is the way to correct the judgment and the rules that allow the government to do so, then that is the way to correct it. If there are different options, I assume as a given thing that the Minister recognizes that one would then of course have to discuss it with the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131307	Well, I have asked that we take the tightest possible position, so of course I have also asked whether it could be 2 years and 11 months or 10 months, 2 years and 1 month. But here the legal answer to me has been that no, no, it has to be 2 years. This does not mean that the law on foreigners cannot be tightened in other areas, as I also told Mr. Marcus Knuth before. This can be done by means of the expulsion provisions, or we can do this in all sorts of other areas. But when it comes to family reunification for people with temporary protection status, we cannot have a waiting period of 3 years. We can do the maximum. of course we need to get a little closer to what we mean by mass influx, and I will of course also find out how we can get as close to the conventions as possible. Well, the reason we have these rules is because we have integration tasks when immigration comes, and the integration task does not seem to me to be less today than it was three years ago, even though the asylum figures were higher three years ago. So when you weigh integration against influx, I think it's too narrow just to look at what the influx was like in that year or the year before. It must be a much longer perspective to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131414	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131415	Thank you. As I understand it, the 3-year rule was introduced to limit the number of people from Muslim countries who come here. The Prime Minister said in 2019, and the Minister himself repeated it, also in 2019, that the government would not relax the family reunification rules without Left and DF being involved. You do that now. Does the Minister recognise that this will mean that more people will come here from the Muslim world, that migration from the Muslim world, which was tried to limit by the three-year rule, will increase?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131500	Well, I would probably be careful to conclude that this means that there will be more family reunions because it will be moved one year forward, but there will certainly be no fewer people there. The question is whether they're just coming a year earlier or whether there'll be more. And I don't dare say that. I can confirm that at least on the part of the Social Democrats was the reason why we voted in favour of the legislation at that time, that we wanted to limit the number. It wasn't because we had sat down and thought that 3 years is a good waiting period before you have to see your family. It was because we wanted to limit the number. Whether it has an effect that it goes from 3 years to 2 years and what that effect is, I dare not put my head on the block for. But I would agree with the questioner that this certainly does not mean that there will be fewer people there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131545	Sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131548	Thank you. I was not elected to the Folketing when this legislation was introduced, but I was able to read out in old documents that when this three-year rule was introduced, there were quite a lot of warning lights flashing. We were warned by the Lawyers' Council, Amnesty International, the Association of Foreign Justice Attorneys and the Legal Policy Association that this could be a violation of human rights. Nevertheless, they chose to do so, and now they are faced with the situation where the legislation they have implemented has been overruled. What does the Minister really think about the implementation of legislation, despite the fact that there were many warning lights that flashed a piece of legislation that has ended up being overruled?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131631	First, a 1-year rule was actually introduced under the former Social Democratic Radical Government, in which the current Prime Minister was Minister of Justice at that time, and also then we were told that it was certainly not possible to do so. But what has actually happened to the judgment that has fallen here is that the court says that you can have a two-year rule, and if there is a mass influx, you can have a three-year rule. So it is true that the assessment made by the Ministry when the three-year rule was made was not exactly clear to everyone, but it is just as true that many of those who keep yelling that we are once again violating human rights were not right either. In the end, it is up to the courts to interpret how to understand the Convention on Human Rights, and now we have a fairly clear interpretation on this specific point, and I think that Danish legislation should reflect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131724	That's it, sir. Carl Valentin, that in the first round there is only one question for the Minister. I will try to steer the debate so that the Minister can come back to the floor, but we must help each other succeed. Then it's Kathrine Olldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131736	Thank you. It is quite true that it is up to the Court of Justice to interpret legislation on human rights, and therefore this issue of mass influx is also interesting. Because if we try to calculate what we are doing here and what we are testing down in Strasbourg, then that really means that the Court of Human Rights will have to deal with what mass influx means in general within the framework of the human rights convention as such, that is. In other countries too. What does the Minister expect the mass influx definition to be? Now there is quite a small draft law, the Minister mentions, but there will be a definition of what mass influx is. Does the Minister already have some sense of feeling or will it be tested down in Strasbourg before it is written into Danish legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131826	I cannot say how close we can come to a legal definition of what mass influx is, but I would like to make a political statement: that the integration task of Danish society, when immigration comes from particular countries around the Middle East, is not just an integration task that will apply next year. And if you ask me, it is therefore not only interesting what the asylum figures have been this year or last year. If you are discussing integration, you should discuss how the influx has been the last two or three or four decades. One of the things that I find a little awkward when you read the verdict is that they say: yes, yes, you did the law when there were high asylum rates, but now there have been a little lower asylum rates when you rejected this family reunification, so now you should allow a family reunification. It annoys me a little because the integration task is linked to decades of influx. I will certainly try politically in the legislative proposal that is being put forward to have an interpretation of mass influx which takes account of the fact that the integration task is linked to many years of immigration and not just to what it has looked like in the last year or two. But now we have to see how far I can get legally with the political ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131932	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments in this case. We shall now move on to the rapporteur's line and therefore also to the normal rules for short remarks, and first of all it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027131945	I have heard that it gives greater credibility if you have such a very deep voice, and that is why I have done my best in the past week to achieve exactly that by coughing me through last week. I hope that it has succeeded, so I have such a deep, credible voice that I can now get through and thank the Minister, of course, for answering this urgent question; the answer was not entirely surprising to me. What is crucial for us in the Danish People's Party is that Denmark is master of its own house, that we are basically the ones who decide what should apply in our country and that it should be so, especially when it comes to people from other countries who want to come to our country, that we, the Danes, then have the opportunity to decide who will come, when they will come and on what terms they will come, and then people will have to come here or not. It is clear that when we have an international convention system which then undermines it, we are really worried, and it is clear, especially when we have international conventions based on a period after the Second World War, which are then interpreted by some officials, and we may well call them judges who sit far away from Denmark and who then have to assess what is right and fair in our country, that this should give rise to deep concern, especially because these judges have a developed sense of trying to move practices in such a way, and it can be said that the tentposts must always be moved in Denmark's disfavour, so that we really have to be overwhelmed by what we think is right and fair. As I have said before: here it is about Denmark opening its doors to some refugees from Syria in 2015 and 2016 and that Danish taxpayers are standing by and helping these people, but then it has the view that when you have come from an area and have fled that area, not because you are personally persecuted, but because you come from a war area, it has to be 3 years before you have to pick up your spouse to Denmark. That's what this is about; that's what this case is about. And then we have established an international system that must then overrule the Danish Parliament's right to decide and say: No, we have to decide to Denmark from the outside that this spouse must be brought to Denmark before the three years have passed, otherwise we break an article 8, which deals with family life. But it is something that Denmark has It is something that we have weighed down here in the Danish Parliament; it is something that the Supreme Court has assessed, indeed also in relation to the rules in force, and I really think it is cross-border that in this way we see time and time again that we are being overruled by an international legal system that the Folketing must then just adjust to and that we are really becoming such a rubber stamp in relation to. It is clear that then it provokes even more when the government's way of dealing with the matter is just to inform us, instead of there being negotiations in the Folketing, a bill that is being put forward and a three-year rule that is being proposed to be something else, so that the parties have the opportunity to object and so that, for example, the provisions of the constitution on minority protection have the opportunity to make its impact. In other words, we have the possibility, by a two-fifths majority, of asking the members of the Folketing to decide whether something extraordinary should be done in relation to such a legal procedure. However, these rules, which are otherwise constitutionally guaranteed to us members of parliament, and which we have signed when we were elected, are simply sidelined because the government simply complies with the European Court of Human Rights. So it's not sustainable. That's why this case is so fundamental, that's why we need some gunpowder on it, and that's why we're going to discuss this later in a consultation, especially in relation to whether there are other options for solving this case than just taking this 2-year rule. I have at least looked into the verdict, and I do not see that the verdict simply tells us that it is now a two-year rule, and if there are other options, has the government not been obliged to search them, also in cooperation with the parties of the Folketing? Therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party and New Citizens, I have to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to stop administering according to a 2 year rule in relation to the family reunification rules. If the Government wishes to amend the three-year rule laid down in the Aliens Act, it must do so by submitting proposals for consideration in the Folketing, which also ensures that the provisions of the Constitution on the protection of minorities are respected. • V (4). • V (4). •
ParlaMint-DK_20211027132419	Thank you. Now it is the case that I have a very sharp look here next door, and the proposal here is in more than 50 words. My assessment will be that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl just edits along the way, so the one who is being sent around to the members of the parliament we have to vote only on Thursday is 50 words. And then we don't have to get it read out of Parliament's platform again. All right, and then there is a brief remark from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027132442	Thank you. I don't think it's surprising, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl makes some mistakes in his speech here. For example: that this human rights issue should be a decision that has been taken far away from Denmark. - Sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl doesn't just confirm that we have it as the basis of this debate... that it is a majority of the people who have ratified the Convention on Human Rights at some point, and that it is also a majority of the people who have decided that we must of course respect human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027132521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027132522	Yes, yes, and it is incorporated into Danish law and it is a huge problem. It is also the case that the government can stand up and say: well, well, we're really sad about this, and it's deaf, deaf, but we're just gonna have to straighten it out. After all, this is a way of depriving democracy of its strength if, in reality, we cannot have a relevant substantive discussion of things, because there is just someone outside the country who has made a decision for us that we are simply correcting. Then it's one way of doing it, and Enhedslisten should really be worried about how our democracy and our people's rule are actually losing juice and power. And therefore, although the Danish Parliament has previously decided to follow the European Convention on Human Rights and incorporate it into Danish law, I think that the Enhedslisten, like the Danish People's Party, should be concerned about how foreign policy, which deals with who may reside in Denmark, is also relevant to discuss honestly, because we can make our decisions about it and are not just obliged to follow the judgement of some judges who sit elsewhere than in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027132623	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027132625	Then I can say, on the other hand, that the Danish People's Party, like the Enhedslisten, should be concerned that we actually have a convention here, has a set of rules which is about protecting citizens from interference from the state, because that is what human rights are all about, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. And that is something that you usually care about in the Danish People's Party, I would say, both when it comes to EU law, but also when it comes to the public law, where we stand, what can be said, a common place, in relation to citizens having rights. This is also the case with the Convention on Human Rights. And it is now the case with rights that they apply to all of us. That's what's the whole essence. So I cannot understand why the Danish People's Party is not concerned that we have here a set of rules that protect citizens from abuses by the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027132709	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027132709-2	For me, this is completely out of the way. In other words, at some point we could not send criminal Romanians in Denmark to Romania because it was estimated that the prison cells they would have to reside in Romania, if they were also found guilty in Romania, were too small. I mean, we're in a situation where these international conventions really protect the wrong people. They often protect criminal foreigners in Denmark in relation to being able to continue to become Denmark, even if we want them to disappear from our country. And here we are talking about the fact that we in the Folketing have considered that it is also perfectly okay that we say to a Syrian who comes here that it will be three years before he can bring his wife here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027132749	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. There are no more brief comments. And that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line. Now it's sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027132803	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for inviting us to this debate. It is, of course, an important issue which, overall, is about how to control the number of foreigners from the Middle East who come to Denmark and, more precisely, about the frustration with the judgment that has now fallen before the European Court of Human Rights and over which I share the frustration. It is absolutely essential that we have strict rules for family reunification. This is due to the experience we have had as a country over decades. Then it is a fact that unfortunately there are far too many, certainly not all, but too many from the Great Middle East, who have never settled well in Denmark. I am pleased that the majority of Parliament's parties and the majority of the population have the same assessment. It gives us a chance to get the situation under control. The alternative, that is to say, to have a lenient opportunity for immigration, would make integration problems incalculable. It'll go wrong if too many people come here. The figures speak their own language when you read publications from e.g. Danmarks Statistik. There are too many people, and certainly not all, but too many people fill the wrong statistics: unemployment, public support and crime. There are also differences in values, negative social control, women and children, violence in child rearing, a hostile view of homosexuals and Jews. I regret the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The verdict obliges us to lower the three-year rule of family reunification to a two-year rule. I'm afraid there's no way around it. We therefore need to adapt Danish legislation to the judgment. However, in future migratory and refugee flows, which result in a massive influx of asylum seekers, we have the opportunity to raise the period from 2 to 3 years again, and this is, after all, a great advantage. Unfortunately, the European Court of Human Rights sometimes gives rulings that are questionable. In my optics, it is an expression of the fact that the court sometimes acts too proactively. On the basis of a convention which is, moreover, often soundly worded, the judges have interpreted unfair conclusions without democratic legitimacy. That's why I thought it was good, too, when Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen led the so-called Copenhagen Declaration and wrote in Kristeligt Dagblad in April 2019: The agreement makes it clear that the responsibility for respecting human rights lies primarily with individual countries and their governments, parliaments and courts. It has always been my clear view that the European Court of Human Rights should not deal with small cases or decide matters which the countries can find out for themselves. The courts are there to resolve major questions of principle relating to human rights. I agree with the Conservative Party chairman on this and I would like the judges of the European Court of Human Rights to keep in mind the declaration signed by the Member States of the Council of Europe. And I would like to read out the Social Democrats' proposal for a text for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that it is crucial that immigration to Denmark is under control. The Danish Parliament takes note of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights and agrees that Danish law must be adapted only to the extent necessary to comply with the judgment. V 5)
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133108	Thank you. That will then be part of the further debate. I now have five or perhaps six brief comments to make. Since there will not necessarily be as many brief remarks to all the rapporteurs, I will take up the brief comments made to the Social Democrat rapporteur. That's why it's first, sir. Morten Messerschmide. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133122	Thank you, President. This is, of course, a deeply worrying matter in many ways. First of all, there is the principle that a majority in the Folketing says one thing to the electorate, gives the impression that one would like to have a strict immigration policy, but as soon as there are some judges in Strasbourg who, on the basis of a convention that cannot be interpreted and understood in such a way, have derived something else, then they just say 'yes' and 'amen' in relation to a message coming from Strasbourg, and then the tight immigration policy can otherwise just go out there. This is a huge problem, and I really think the rapporteur should deal with that. In addition, the number 2 is 2 years. How did this come about? I can read from the grounds of the judgment that this is what is referred to in relation to the EU's family reunification directive, where there is a waiting period of two years, but this is not true in Denmark. This cannot be the case in Denmark, because we have a legal reservation, and the rapporteur is of course aware of this. So how can it be that you choose to follow that line instead of saying: okay, then it will be 2 years and 11 months or 2 years and 10 months. I suppose that'll be within the judgment, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133223	To answer the first part, it is true that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament went to the polls to support a strict immigration policy in Denmark. I'm glad. But there is no majority in favour of not respecting the rule of law, for example. to comply with a judgment or to comply with our international obligations. That was the first part of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's question. To the second part about the two years, I would like to say that I am not a legal expert. I am, in principle, a layman who is here, but I am referring to the legal assessment that we have all been sent in committee on 1 October and that I have read. It is so made by legal experts in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, and they tell us in the note that the way you read this sentence means that it is 2 years that is the absolute limit. That was also one of the questions I asked the Minister when we first heard this, i.e. whether we could say 2 years and 11 months, for example, which Morten Messerschmidt himself mentions on the platform, and one could not, was the answer that we could then read in this note. That's what I'm leaning on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133329	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133330	We have to understand that, sir. Rasmus Stoklund really wanted to have held on for 3 years. In his dream scenario, Strasbourg should have just closed in and not interfered with this. But because they've interfered, we have to do something. That's how I hear his position. This is something he will then do, he gets from the government, and when you ask why the government means it, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, it's because the government means it. Perhaps it would be nice to have a slightly more external assessment, and that is why I would like to ask whether Mr. Rasmus Stoklund will agree that we will have an external assessment of the judgment in question and an external assessment of whether it will be possible for Denmark to comply with that judgment by putting the figure elsewhere, so it was not 2 years, but perhaps 2 1/2 years or 2 years and 9 months or a period other than that which the government says.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133412	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133412-2	No, because there I have confidence in the professionalism of lawyers in both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. When they are given the task of reading a judgment and giving an analysis of it and an assessment of what it is possible to state, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has so clearly indicated that what he wants is the strictest possible interpretation or compliance with that judgment in Danish law, that is the premise on which they are working, and then they say: this is the tightest thing we can do on the basis of the judgment that has fallen. I have complete confidence in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133450	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133451	Thank you for that, President. I'd like to follow up on where Mr. Morten Messerschmidt escaped because this is quite interesting. The rapporteur says that the rapporteur has more confidence in the lawyers who sit in the office than the rapporteur has in the Supreme Court. That's pretty remarkable. Actually, I think it's a really good idea to let this try somewhere else and get other assessments of whether this is right. And when I think it is, as the Minister said before, because the rules were introduced to limit the influx to Denmark. If we recognize what the Minister said earlier, namely that this is to limit the flow, then we must also recognise that the opposite of limiting is that it is not limited, that is to say, that the flow continues. And by doing so, there will be more migrants coming here from Muslim countries, that is to say, when the number of years required for family reunification is reduced than if the three years had been maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133555	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133556	I don't recall saying anything that I don't trust the Supreme Court. I don't know where it came from. I don't know where it came from. But what I am saying is that when there is a judgment before the European Court of Human Rights and the Minister tells his lawyers and the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice that we would now like to see an assessment of how we comply with this judgment, what to say, to the edge or in the strictest possible way, where we are only just responding to what is stated in the judgment, I am absolutely confident that this task will be done to the lawyers sitting in the ministries, to the letter and the letter of professional competence. And how to get the Supreme Court into it, I don't understand, because they have nothing to do with this case at all. It is not they who are asked to assess this kind of thing; it is the ministries, and that is how it is in all cases, and the questioner knows that, of course. In relation to the influx issue, it is absolutely crucial that, in a situation where we see a scenario like that from 2015 or 2016, you have the opportunity to turn it back up to 3 years to send out a signal: Don't apply to Denmark, because it is not a slaraffenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133659	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133701	When the Supreme Court is relevant, it's because the Supreme Court has already taken a position on this. The Supreme Court has And it is possible that you will be able to limit the influx if we find ourselves in a situation like that in 2015, but frankly: is it really what the Social Democrats want with Denmark, that is to say, to wait until we again find ourselves in a situation that is so bad and in the mean time?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133736	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133739	But it is not true that the Supreme Court has ruled on this judgment. In other words, it is a judgment which has fallen relatively recently and which, of course, the lawyers in the ministries are taking a position on the same thing as they would do with all sorts of other judgments and give us an assessment of. In addition, I think it might be a bit of a controversy. I don't know, but this whole thing about making it sound like the most crucial thing there is, among other things. The emergency brake and some of the other options we have in the toolbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133812	Sir. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133813	Thank you. The rapporteur says that it should only be necessary to comply with the judgment, as far as is absolutely necessary, and then the rapporteur leans on what the Minister is proposing. But may I ask: has the rapporteur been invited to a discussion with the Minister to hear what is of alternatives? Well, we certainly haven't. Could you, like sir? Morten Messerschmidt says, make an external assessment or do something, or do you just take the two years and say that's what we're doing? Well, we haven't been over a discussion about this. Has the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133843	I have read this note, which was sent to us in committee on 1 October, very carefully. It's a legal assessment by the lawyers in the two relevant ministries in this context, and that's what I trust. I do not suspect the Minister himself has been sitting and writing it for a dark evening in his writing chamber, and it is legal experts who have done it, and I have complete confidence in that. And then we've all been invited over to the minister on Friday to have a review of the technique and law in it, if you have any further questions when you've read this note.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133917	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133919	That meeting on Friday is among other things. I have written to the Minister and said that it cannot be right that the Minister should simply announce such a great relaxation in Danish legislation without even discussing with the parties. Then an invitation came. But it is rather late, since the Minister has already announced that you will go from three to two years. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur on the whole whether the rapporteur thinks it is proper political work just to announce something without inviting the parties that are actually behind the existing rules to a discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027133950	Well, at least I think it shows the Minister's gratitude that just as soon as Mr. Kim gets here... Marcus Knuth asks for a meeting, he gets a meeting on the calendar. So, sir... Marcus Knuth at least appreciate it. The food is not always something to shout hurry for at the meetings, but he gets the meeting he has asked for, and that is probably the most crucial thing. I think this note is what provides the answers to the questions we need to ask. And I think the important thing is that we agree that it should only just comply with the legislation. That is why there is not a great deal of room for negotiation and all sorts of things, because together we want the strictest possible interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134016	Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134017	Is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund agreed that the legal experts who considered the three-year rule to be workable were wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134035	Now it is the case that law is not an exact science, and just as there were some who thought it would be illegal to make a one-year rule, there have been some who have considered that it was legal to make a three-year rule, and now we have a judgment that is an intermediate position, where we have to have a two-year rule every day, and if there is a large influx then we have to make it a three-year rule again. But as Mr. Mads Fuglede is aware that law is not an exact science where you can look up a table and then get the right answer, so if the purpose is to create some kind of mistrust of the ministries' lawyers, I do not share that distrust.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134110	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134111	There is no mistrust here, but some have estimated that we could make a tightening that said that you had to wait 3 years before you could have family reunification. And they were wrong. It shows the verdict. Surely the same people can be wrong now when they consider that 2 years is the only alternative to the 3 years we originally wanted. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134135	No, I do not think that is right, because they have just read the judgment that has fallen, and they have even written us a rather thorough note on that judgment. And the difference is that that is the starting point, sir. Mads Fuglede mentions a situation where there had not been a judgment and where there was nothing they could relate to and where, based on their own assessment of the Convention, they had to make an assessment. Here they have a specific judgment to deal with, and that is quite a crucial difference in this context. That is why my trust in the lawyers of the ministries is completely intact.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134204	Thank you for that, President. The rapporteur said that we should not apply to Denmark, because it was not a Slaraffenland. But with this decision here, it means that those who have been granted temporary protection status will have faster family reunification. That is to say, it is an advantage for them to come to Denmark, because then they can get the family up more quickly. The rapporteur has to recognise that it will then go faster than three years. But I'd like to know how many with temporary protection status the government has actually sent home through time. Now it's the three-year rule. But they also have temporary protection status after the 3 years and after the 2 years now here. But how many have the government sent home that have temporary protection status? Doesn't that just mean that everyone who comes up here suddenly just has a permanent residence permit? Because the government doesn't really send anyone home. But can the rapporteur explain how many the government has actually sent home and is planning to send home of those who have been given protection status?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134308	First of all, I do not entirely agree that two years, which will be the new rule, are just the joy and the old age of these people. I still think most of us would think it was a long time to wait to be united with our family if a rule was changed from 3 years to 2 years and you had to wait. So I do not think it is quite right that this is just such a huge relaxation, and I also think the important thing is that in a new crisis situation we have the opportunity to turn up to 3 years again. Secondly, the government does not send anyone home in this way, at least does not decide on it. Fortunately, it is independent authorities who decide whether or not people need protection. How many people have exactly been sent back, I cannot explain here from the Parliament's platform. But that is something on which we can send a committee question. We regularly get fresh figures on how many people have been sent home, among other things. Syrians who have come here on section 7, 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134404	Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134405	However, the rapporteur must recognise that two years are faster than three years. This means that one who has been given temporary protection status can have the family with wife and two, three, four, five children, or how many they now have, up after 2 years instead of waiting for 3 years. It is a great relief that they can get it faster, which means that it becomes more attractive to get protection status in Denmark than perhaps in other countries. The rapporteur must acknowledge this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134435	Well, that's the reason why we didn't want this outcome of judgment, and that we're upset about this judgment. That's right. I also think it is right that two years, of course, are shorter than three years, but it is still relatively long to wait to see your family again. In practice, people in this room are also aware of the fact that it is not exactly 2 years, because there will also be time for the applicants to meet the requirements they otherwise have to meet, administration etc. So in practice it may well be more time with processing times and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134514	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134515	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund was a little incomprehensible about the Supreme Court being brought into this whole discussion, but that's because the Supreme Court decided back in 2017 that the Supreme Court considered the three-year rule to be in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. So the Supreme Court has considered that the three-year rule was in order. Now there is a verdict that says it is not, after which one then automatically on the basis of an assessment by good government officials in the ministries says: Well, then it is called a 2-year rule. One can also look at what Mikael Rask Madsen, professor at the University of Copenhagen, has said to Jyllands-Posten, namely that it could also be an opportunity to look at whether one could start the procedure earlier in order to shorten the waiting time. It is his opinion that such things would also be done in line with the judgment. So how can Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is so sure of the fact that just there, with the two years, you have found the stone shown over in the ministries? I can't find that with the two years in the verdict, so that's something you've deduced. How can you say that you are smarter than the Supreme Court and a professor at the University of Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134623	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134624	Unlike many of the authors on the right of me in the Chamber today, I am not saying that I am a legal expert, and I just do not think that what we keep referring to about the Supreme Court is of great relevance when what we have to deal with is a judgment that has fallen before the European Court of Human Rights and that we should turn it into a two-year rule. And then when we have a lot of expert lawyers in the ministries who sit and give their professional assessment of it, we should say: Your legal reading glasses fail something I have read an interview with a law professor in Jutland-Posten, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has read, and therefore must it be done differently? Well, that's not gonna last. This judgment is based on a premise that it must be complied with on as strict a basis as possible. That's what the lawyers have made this note for us on the basis of, and I trust it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134714	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134716	I just wanted to say that as far as the Supreme Court is concerned, it was the same thing. It's the same case the Supreme Court has had for judgment, so it's not quite anything else. It is an assessment of whether the acids in question were entitled to family reunification. And you just have to say that it means something, of course. Why's Mr. Knox floating? Rasmus Stoklund didn't just make a small degree of uncertainty about whether it might be a good idea to get some externals just to make some assessments as to whether there are other options to solve this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134746-2	That does not change the fact that it is not terribly relevant when what we are here to discuss is the judgment that has now fallen before the European Court of Human Rights and which we in Denmark have to decide on how to implement as strictly as possible. Then a judgment from 2017 is not terribly relevant in this context, regardless of whether it is the same case, because we are obliged to comply with judgments • it is part of our international obligations • and we must then do so in the strictest possible way. Moreover, I think it should be borne in mind that, which is quite crucial here, this is the opportunity to turn up to 3 years again in the event of a new mass influx, and that is where it is really crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134826	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we are now moving on to the rapporteur's report. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027134842	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to say that we in the Left take note of the judgment reached by the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, it is fundamental to us that we must live up to our international obligations. I am a layman, and when I read such judgments, I notice that others are in doubt about the validity of the judgment that has been given or whether, in some way, one can challenge it, and that is why I think the course of action in this matter is unacceptable. When the Supreme Court has said otherwise in the same case, it is strange that the Minister passes the decision of the Court of Human Rights outside the Folketing, and I find it very regrettable that the parties who were responsible for the tightening of the procedure are not involved in searching for other options. Those who once said that you could introduce a three-year rule now say just as sloppyly that you can only have a two-year rule. I would very much have liked to have been in a meeting where we could ask questions about that assessment to see if there were other options, and this unfortunately confirms once again a picture of a government that is powerful, that does what suits it and does not intend to involve us with the other parties that are said to be making foreign policy together with the European Union when it comes to making difficult decisions. In fact, in the course of the case it is true that several parties did not discover the change before, and in my own case it was the case that I was called by a journalist from Jutland-Posten, who reminded me that it had now gone through, and it seems as if no great spells have been made to involve us. So let us now get back on track and share the things we think are important, namely that we know that people who want to go to Denmark look at different things: what is the size of our social benefits? How long can it take me to get together with my family? Where does anyone come from where I come from? All of these things have major consequences for our consistent and tight immigration policy, and when you touch on that basis, we expect us to be in dialogue with each other about it. Finally, I would like to say that I hope that the meeting we will have on Friday is one in which the demands we are making here are met. We are prepared to enter into an open dialogue on this issue and we hope we can find some new balances if it is the case that there is no way around the judgment that has come. Then I shall read out a text of adoption from the Left and the Conservatives. Proposal for adoption The Parliament takes note of the decision of the Court of Human Rights and that we should only relax the policy of foreigners to the extent necessary. The Folketing instructs the government to make proposals for restrictions on foreigners which outweigh the relaxations. The Folketing criticises the Minister's lack of involvement in the consequences of the judgment and requires the Minister to look for alternatives together with the parties behind the family reunification rules. V 6).
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135218	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. But there is no wish for short remarks, and so we thank Mr. Mads Birded and goes on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135240	Thank you. It says I have five seconds, but I don't think I can handle it. That's it. That's it. That's it. Thank you for the floor. I have to admit, I'm having a little trouble understanding the purpose of this urgent debate. Denmark has passed a law, and we have broken that law, so of course we are now correcting what was illegal. It seems to be quite obvious. Then you might think that the law that blocks us from preventing family reunification for time and eternity is wrong. There are also laws that the SF believes are wrong, lots of them, but we all agree that various laws must be respected until we obtain a majority in order to abolish them. Human rights are part of Danish legislation, even though it may sometimes sound as though this is not quite the case in the debates here. So how on earth can you insinuate that the government can do anything other than follow them? The Minister says quite clearly here from the platform that he has tried to be as tight as possible in politics, but this is what can be done. So what are we even going to debate? Does the government obviously have to correct the lawlessness of the previous government when it turns out that L 87, which was adopted at the time, was illegal? I think that is a rather strange debate to take. In this case, the discussion is so specific that Denmark violated human rights when we refused refugees the opportunity to apply for family reunification before they had been in the country for three years. That is why, of course, the government is changing its practice. That is a good thing, but it is not something that we intend to commend to the government either. I do not really think it is particularly good that it has been decided to comply with the law, because it is very expected. Having said that, it is a little absurd that we should even be standing here today. Allow me to quote SF's then rapporteur, Mr. Jacob Mark, when the law was passed that weakened the conditions of refugees for family reunification: the Institute for Human Rights says that this is a breach of the European Convention on Human Rights. The same goes for the Council of Lawyers, Amnesty International, DIGNITY, Save the Child, SOS Against Racism, Danish Refugee Aid, Association of Attorneys of Foreigners, Grandparents of Asylum and Legal Policy Association. So many say at once that this is a breach of the European Convention on Human Rights. It's quite a gamble to bet they're all wrong. Quote out. Mr. Jacob Mark and SF are right about that. So it would have been useful to have listened to us and the warnings back then. This was not done, and the consequence is that Denmark has broken a fundamental and fundamental human right, namely the right to live with its family, something that should also include the many politicians in here with conservative values. If you believe in the family as the focal point for most of this life, I think it's a little absurd to use so much energy to keep families apart. That is being corrected now and well for it, but imagine that we are going to be debating whether this is the right thing to do now. I cannot say much more clearly, I think. I do not understand the need for an urgent debate on questions today, and I believe that human rights are so fundamental that they should form the basis for all Danish case law, but even if you do not agree with it, I assume that we should respect them as long as they are part of Danish law. Therefore, the government's decision should not be discussed either. Finally, on behalf of the SF, Radicals, Enhedslisten and the Christian Democrats, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the Danish Government is adjusting the Danish law on family reunification to comply with international law, according to the latest relevant judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The Folketing considers it a matter of course that Denmark and Danish governments comply with its international obligations and the framework of human rights. • V 7). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135658	This will be part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135702	I think, sir. Carl Valentin's post here was hair-raising, so, come on. He says that what was done at the time was illegal and that it was apparently contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and all these things. That's crazy! Well, how can Mr. Carl Valentin tell you? In 2017, the highest legal body in the country, the Supreme Court, assessed precisely this three-year rule and came to the conclusion that it was okay. So how can the SF's rapporteur today, here in 2021, stand and say that it was quite obvious at the time that it was contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights? Well, what's he building it on?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135743	I am based on the many warnings that we received and which I also listed in my speech before. It is clear that there are some who weigh heavier than others. Well, maybe I'm thinking that SOS Racism will probably often make some assessments that are a little harder than others. However, the Association of Foreigners' Attorneys, Legal Policy Association, Lawyers' Council and Amnesty International so important organizations warned us then.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135810	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135811	But that's exactly why it was quite interesting to see what the Supreme Court came up with. Mr. Carl Valentin really that one can just so push the Supreme Court aside and say: they have no real meaning; it is more important to see what some refugee lawyers, SOS Racism or the like think, because they have a higher degree of validity in SF's heads than the Danish Supreme Court? Is that where we're out?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135835	No, I don't think it is. I think that the Supreme Court's assessments are extremely important to take too, but nevertheless there have been so many warning lights that blinked, and it turned out that they were right. And I think that the problem here is that you always have the approach that you still have in government, you can also hear that you have to go to the edge of what is possible in the area of human rights. This means that sometimes people go over the edge and there I think we should stand on the shoulders of human rights rather than always trying to go to the edge of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135904	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135906	Are there other Supreme Court decisions and judgments that SF does not respect, or is it only in this one case that it is not considered that the Supreme Court ruling is the most important in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135923	In other words, the decisions made by the Supreme Court are extremely important, and that is not because we do not listen to them, but we also listen when there are so many other warnings. And then we just don't have the approach that you should always try to go to the edge. And we can clearly see here that you've moved beyond it. We have been worried all the way, and this is evident from the speech made by Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark. I have seen it today, because I was not a member of parliament when the debate was held. But in it he clearly lists the many organisations that were extremely concerned and which were important voices in the debate. So we didn't dare take the chance. We were right not to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135957	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027135958	I would like to ask if the Supreme Court of the SF's optics is not the highest court in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140004	The Supreme Court is, of course, the highest body, but we also have something called human rights, and we have a lot of associations that made some serious assessments of this, and we can see that they were right. It is clear that we have gone beyond the edge here, and it is now being corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140019	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140020	I was really glad that Mr. Carl Valentin emphasized that law is law and law must be kept. We are very much in agreement on this. That is why I would like to discuss the details of the judgment that we are debating today with Mr Beazley. Carl Valentin. Sir. Carl Valentin, in reading the judgment, will of course see, as I have seen, that much of it is based on the EU's family reunification directive, and I am sure that Mr. Carl Valentin agrees with me not to apply in Denmark because we have a legal reservation. Then it may be that sir... Carl Valentin wants the material content to apply in Denmark, but we probably agree that this directive does not apply formally in Denmark. That is why my question to Mr. Carl Valentin, how he, as the legal person and parliamentarian he is, feels about the fact that the Court of Human Rights, through its jurisdiction in Strasbourg, can implement EU directives in Denmark, despite the fact that the Danish electorate has said two and perhaps three times that they want to stick to the reservation that we are thus getting laws that should not actually apply in Denmark to apply in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140123	It is not true that, fortunately, this should not apply in Denmark, because a majority in this Parliament has decided to respect human rights. So the reason you follow this is because a majority in the Folketing wants it. I can hear that there are some people in here who are really sorry that we have to follow them, but that is what we have chosen to sign. I think this is extremely important, so I have no problem with ensuring that the right to family life is guaranteed because of human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140148	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140150	When the Court of Human Rights begins to apply EU law in this way, and this is something that not only I, but also people who actually know something about it here and who work with it on a legal and expert basis in everyday life, have also noticed is remarkable, there are no warning lights at all for Mr. Carl Valentin? Denmark also has other reservations, and Mr. Carl Valentin and the SF then say at all times that if it is the Court of Human Rights that begins to introduce EU rules, which we really have reservations about in Denmark, we should nevertheless follow them, even if the voters have said no?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140226	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140226-2	The voters haven't said no. It is true that we have some reservations, but the electorate has elected a majority in the Folketing, which has signed that we want to respect human rights and then apply them. I should not be able to say whether we will at any time think that it is okay to implement EU legislation through human rights in this way. I find that difficult to say in advance. But I don't see anything problematic in this case here, at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140253	Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140253-2	Thank you. The rapporteur referred to it as a lawlessness, i.e. the existing three-year rule. Was it also lawless when the Danish Supreme Court blue-stamped that rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140305	No, it wasn't. Well, it's clear that some experts have been sitting there looking at it, and the Supreme Court's assessment is very important. But this is legislation that has already been included back in 2015, even before the Supreme Court came into the picture. And I think it's a lawlessness when you try to go to the edge so extremely that you end up going over it and that it has consequences for families' ability to be together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140331	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140331-2	Then I am just a little confused, because the rapporteur says that it was not sloppy when the Supreme Court blue-stamped the three-year rule, but that the three-year rule was lawless. Can the rapporteur just explain whether it was lawless or not illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140342	I believe that it is a disgrace to insist in the Danish Parliament that we go so extremely far in our fight to ensure that families cannot be together, that we end up making some legislation that is overruled by the Court of Human Rights. That is my point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140402	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140402-2	Thank you. There is no doubt that the SF was against this rule at the time too, so of course the rapporteur is on that side, and I think that is something that needs to be made clear in the debate here. But it is the case that our constitution says that the Folketing must not give up sovereignty here without the Danes being asked. So when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt points this out, it is precisely because we or you or anyone before us have asked the Danes in the past whether they would surrender sovereignty in the area of foreign policy. We have said no to that; the Danes will not. At the same time, a large majority of those sitting in the Folketing today, before the elections, have said quite clearly: we will not change the family reunification rules. It must bear witness that there is massive popular support for the system that is now being introduced into the family reunification rules and an alien policy in which we limit the influx from Muslim countries. And yet you stand now as rapporteur and say that it is quite okay for this to come sneaking in through the back door, that is to say that you go contrary to the will of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140511	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140512	There are a lot of things I could comment on here. I don't think anything gets sneaked in through the back door. What is happening is that Denmark chooses to respect human rights, of which a majority is in favour. It is true that some parties have said before the elections that they did not want to relax the rules of family reunification, but there is certainly no saying that they want to break with human rights either. If you are in a situation where you find that the current legislation is a violation of human rights, then you have to make a choice. Are we going to break human rights, or are we going to do this by relaxing family reunification rules so as to give better rights to refugees? Fortunately, the latter has been chosen. After all, we still have a majority in Denmark that recognises human rights and I am incredibly pleased about that. Then I did not quite understand the comment that the current approach should almost be a breach of the Constitution, because sovereignty is being relinquished. I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund can ask the Minister if he thinks that the current practice is a breach of the Constitution. That is certainly not my impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140612	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140612-2	It is contrary to the Constitution to surrender sovereignty without asking the people. That is also why we have some legal reservations. The Danes have clearly said that we do not want to make this clear. So we are in a situation where we have a majority of the population who support the immigration policy that has been pursued. We have a majority of the people who voted for parties that, before the elections, promised not to relax this and then do it anyway. I fully understand that there is a minority in the Folketing who wants to relax this. But does the rapporteur not see that this is contrary to what a large majority of the people want?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140653	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140654	No, I do not see that, because a large majority of the Danish population has also elected politicians who have gone to the polls to respect human rights. I don't see the problem, I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140707	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027140724	Thank you for the floor. I feel a bit like the previous rapporteur, i.e. I think it is a little strange that we should be standing here today discussing whether it is at all right or sensible to comply with a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. But now, we're just gonna take a round and discuss what it's basically that we're involved in as a country. For a foundation for the fundamental rights of the individual in this country is, of course, the European Court of Human Rights, and I really think this could be an opportunity to make that clear, because in the discussion that is going on in the light of what is going on in Poland, it could actually be interesting just to stop and look at what kind of club we are in. Together with the Constitution, the conventions constitute a very, very strong set of rights, and the European Convention on Human Rights, for example, protects. against hate speech, the right to family life, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, protects a fair trial and other rights which are not necessarily written into the constitution, which is sometimes such a rather old-fashioned law. And, of course, in order for important rights to be genuinely rights, they must be enforced if a citizen is subjected to a violation of such a right. And that is why we have the Court of Human Rights. The conventions are there to guarantee the fundamental rights of all of us, in the event that temporary political flows will restrict these rights. The conventions always protect us Danes from our own rulers, and human rights therefore belong to the people or the individual and not to changing governments and politicians. The politicians of a country cannot therefore decide that the laws of this particular country impose human rights. This applies to Poland, as well as to Denmark, precisely because international law is the people's and not the rulers'. The aim of the Court is to ensure that the Member States comply with the Convention, and for the Radical Left it is therefore essential that we have the European Court of Human Rights to enforce the rights we have incorporated into Danish law. It is, in fact, a precondition for these rights that you can also claim them that there is a court that comes to the aid of citizens and protects them, even if the citizens do not come from Denmark. So when the Court of Human Rights judges that Denmark has gone too far with the three-year rule, it is a matter of course for us to correct. Ignoring a verdict would be an entry into a club of countries in which we in the Radical Left cannot see ourselves in. And despite the fact that the government's proposal for adoption is a very dry and reluctant observation, I am glad that the government is feeling the same after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141012	There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141015	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Radical Left is known as a party that loves the international, the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Union, and the more, the better, isn't it? The reservations have to go, and all that shit about Denmark. But peace be to it. Radicals also want to be known as a party which is very principled and based on such legal principles, and it is true that the Radical Left must recognise that the Danes have not been quite as far on that European journey as the Radicals would like, and that is why we have some reservations. Can there not be some concern or anxieties on the part of the rapporteur if we now incorporate through the European Court of Human Rights some legislation that the Danes have actually actively said no to in European cooperation, because then something goes wrong here? If we are just to follow it from the European Court of Human Rights and not to discuss it, where is the question, why are we going to debate it at all in this Chamber in the stronghold of our people's government, and why do we have to spend time on it, and these are actually rules that come to Denmark, to which we have actively said no in European cooperation, can the rapporteur not see a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141121	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141123	I think there are some apples and pears mixed here, because international law also trumps the EU, and it also trumps Danish legislation. International law is a supranational law, which we have, incidentally, and for which there is a huge majority here in the Danish Parliament. As far as I know, only the rapporteur's own party and the neighbouring party believe that Denmark should be withdrawn from the human rights conventions. So it seems to me that there is a huge popular mandate behind having signed up to international law and thus to the human rights conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141155	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141157	Well, it's politicians who do things. The European Court of Human Rights is not just such a body of biblical dimensions. After all, we are talking about something that is made by people and that is carried on by people. In other words, how can it be that the Radical Left believes that when it comes to this particular issue, we should not really question it, because then it is just something that is there, and we should just correct that, even if we look at the judgment that we have today's debate, we can see that the European Court of Human Rights ruling refers to rules in European cooperation to which Denmark has actively said no?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141231	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141232	I do not recognize that it has biblical dimensions or that it is chiseled in stone. It is always interpreted, including by the Court of Human Rights. The Minister also explained this very well, and I think that in my speech I also gave some examples of how the human rights conventions have also expanded and incorporated new definitions and new problems that are appropriate on time. So I do not quite recognize that we cannot interpret and work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141257	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141258	The rapporteur says that international law trumps all other legislation, but international law does not impose the constitution. And when this is so important, it is because the judgment we are holding here is based on a set of rules which the Danes have clearly rejected in the referendum. The Danes have clearly said: here we have a reservation. That's why it's so relevant. We have been asked, we have said no, we should not ask for that, but then come the Human Rights Convention and the Court of Human Rights and say: we are laying down a set of rules which apply in other countries but which do not apply in Denmark. That is the problem here: you sneak in through the back door something that the Danes have actively said no to. Does the rapporteur not see that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141344	In fact, the Constitution does not say anything about the right to family life. This is something that we had to write in or introduce through the Convention on Human Rights, and perhaps it was because, when the Constitution was drawn up, we did not just think that it could be a fundamental right. Perhaps more thought was given to the fact that it was such a self-evident thing. That is why it is not a question of surrender of sovereignty when there is such a judgment as this one. And that is only when there is a surrender of sovereignty, for example. I want things to be put to the vote and so on, which I know the rapporteur's party would very much like to have a lot of legislation, because it is always a question of surrender of sovereignty, but that is not in this context because there is nothing in the basic law on the right to family life.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141425	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141426	It may be difficult to understand, but what I am trying to say, what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is trying to state that we have actively rejected the EU's influence on our asylum and immigration policy. The Danes have actively refused to do so. This does not mean that we in the Danish Parliament should leave sovereignty to which we have actively rejected it. Nor is it done, but it is said that because a Court of Human Rights, which is based on some legislation that we have actively rejected, makes a judgment, it can be sneaked in through the back door, and that is the problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141506	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141507	The electorate of the rapporteur's party has actively rejected human rights, and the rapporteur has also actively rejected human rights. The rest of Parliament's parties and their electorate have actively agreed to human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141525	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, which means that we can go further. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141536	Thank you. Imagine that today we have a question debate on whether we should respect human rights. I, like previous rapporteurs, think that this is a little bit strange. On the other hand, I must be the first to say that if we did not respect human rights, we would also have a question debate on it, because then I can promise those who have called this question that we would have called not only a question but also for consultation, etc. It is in fact in the paper on which this government stands that we must respect human rights. That's why I think it's only natural for the government to come in here. That must be an absolute minimum. Quite frankly, I cannot understand why this should be a debate at all, but it may not really surprise anyone. I believe that what is happening here today in the Chamber, and has happened over the last two or three years, is that there has been a politicisation of human rights. Human rights have become such a question of politics. But in reality it is a set of rights that we have and which apply to all of us that apply to all the people who live in countries that have signed up to the Convention on Human Rights. Fortunately, Denmark has done so, and that is why I do not buy the premise that this is something that some people outside Denmark have decided. No, it is something that we ourselves have decided very actively, namely to incorporate human rights into Danish legislation. When it comes to the judgment itself, which this debate is called on the basis of, then the government comes up with a compromise called two years. In fact, I think that the government here is pursuing a very strict family reunification policy. That's a long time to wait to be with your family for two years. That's a really long time to wait. Why doesn't it have to be just two months or six months? Actually, I'd think that was more fair. And I find it hard to see how the fact that you have to wait for two years to be with your family is not contrary to the right to privacy. However, there is another assessment by the Court of Human Rights and the government's lawyers, and I must then respect and trust that assessment. At least I'm gonna do that. But I think two years is a long time. That is why I do not believe that this is, as it were, an expression of the fact that there are now all kinds of gaps in immigration policy, unfortunately, from my chair, unfortunately, I have to say. But I'm having a little trouble understanding why you're so up in the red field over it. Having said that, I would also like to say to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Morten Messerschmidt, who unfortunately is no longer in the Chamber, does not agree that Denmark is simply saying yes and amen to everything that the Court of Human Rights brings in. Actually, you don't. It is the case that there has been a verdict against Switzerland that says that our begging legislation in Denmark is also contrary to human rights. A verdict has just been passed that it is contrary to human rights to send people back to Syria, as we do in Denmark. And I can stand by that from up here to promise that the Minister will also have to answer to how we can both say that we respect human rights and send people back to Syria. So I simply do not think it is true that we are simply saying yes and amen to everything that comes from the Court of Human Rights, although I think we should do so. But I don't think that's gonna come as a surprise either. Having said that, I and the Enhedslist can support the adoption text, which Mr. Carl Valentin read.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141924	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we can now move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Gundelach's report. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027141938	Thank you, President. I would say that there is so much about this process, which is disappointing and very, very critical. These are some of the most important rules in Danish immigration policy: family reunification rules. Back in 2015, when I was newly elected here in the Danish Parliament, we faced the greatest pressure of asylum, I believe ever in Danish history, and we looked very, very carefully at what we had of tools to manage the situation. Of course, there were services that were a residence basis, there were a lot of different things, but exactly this in relation to the family reunification rules was one of our most important tools. That is why we introduced the three-year rule for the blue parties plus the Social Democratic Party. The European Court of Human Rights has then arrived at that was a little too much. We said at the time that we were well aware that we were on the verge of conventions. That's a shame, especially when the rules were blue-stamped by the Danish Supreme Court. But it's what it is. When the sentence fell, the Minister, Mattias Tesfaye, said that it was very complex and that it required legal analysis to see how we come to what we should do in terms of changing the legislation. I thought the Minister thought that he would, of course, call the blue parties behind the current rules for a debate so that we could see what we can do to change the rules as little as possible. After all, the Minister has chosen not to do so. He reports out on a Friday night that we just cut from 3 to 2 years like that. You could have done a lot. You could have done what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has suggested, and has made an independent study of what else can be looked at. You could also do what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has proposed to look at the processing times. One could actually have done a lot of things, if it were the case that one had sat down with the parties of the Folketing and looked at what was possible, but it did not happen. The minister just reported it completely from his own point of view. Then it is also amazing to hear the rapporteur from the Social Democrat Party, Rasmus Stoklund, say: well, we are leaning completely on the analysis there is. So, everything else equal: The Danish Supreme Court said that the current three-year rules were in order. So it's not so black and white. And, frankly, it is a disgrace that the Minister also does not at the same time say what he will do to tighten up elsewhere, in other words exactly what we can do to tighten up elsewhere, so that we maintain the image of Danish immigration policy as an overall picture. So to sum up: I think that this process has unfortunately revealed that the Social Democrats have no desire to cooperate closely with the blue parties on immigration policy, not even in an area which the Social Democrats have actually voted in favour of when we adopted the legislation. I think that's a real shame. Conservatives support the text that Mads Fuglede from the Left has read.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142231	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142234	That's because you keep using that blue party thing. I just want to say that when it comes to foreign policy and the interpretation that part of the blue parties have, KD is not part of that equation. I would like to make that very clear. We can agree on a lot of other things, but not that line. I can just as clearly remember the discussion that was going on when all of a sudden you fucked this up to three years. Now you really had to show how tight you could be and how tough you could be, and go out with big ads, and what do I know throughout this whole process. There said the minister then, just like Mr. Marcus Knuth says we go to the edge of the conventions, but we abide by them. What puzzles me here is that when there comes a court it can never be a political decision, whether you comply with a law or whether you do not comply with a law, I assume we agree on that, you stand and problematize it, and you politicize it. Is it because it really does not want to comply with the conventions from which Denmark is bound?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142340	I am sorry if I included the rapporteur's party as a blue party supporting foreign policy. Now I referred to the blue parties that were in the Folketing in the last session. So I'm sorry. We will get a very interesting debate out of this in the future. But the reality is: we said that we went to the edge of the convention. And I would actually like to praise the Minister for one good quote he made in the conciliation the other day, quoting Søren Pape Poulsen as saying that if you want to go to the edge of the conventions, it is that there is sometimes a judgment against you, of course nothing negative. This shows that it has actually gone or tried to go to the edge of the conventions. But the bottom line is that the Danish Supreme Court blue-stamped this That is also why I do not understand why the European Court of Human Rights has come to a different conclusion, I have to say. But when the Danish Supreme Court blue-stamped it, we haven't been completely out in the hemp.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142433	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142435	No, but then there will be a judgment, and then it is just to correct it because it is not a political decision. It is, after all, every time a judgment is passed by an international court, it must be politicised in this Parliament every single time. It has to be because we really do not think that we should comply with the international conventions and obligations that we have, or that we should at least be allowed to decide for ourselves whether we believe that we are complying with them or not. Isn't that how it is, sir? Marcus Knuth?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142510	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142512	It should then be the Folketing that decides, as far as possible, what laws we have in this country. But all other things being equal, the verdict does not say that what the Minister is proposing is the right thing to do. There are all kinds of other options. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl suggested that it might be possible to look at the processing times. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt said: let us look at it from an objective point of view. There are many opportunities to look at, and that is precisely what we are criticising.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142536	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142537	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth for one, I think, very clearly the rapporteur's speech, which also contains a clear frustration about the way in which the government has chosen to deal with this. Now you have a little impression, even when you look over at the Foreign Minister, that he really just sits back and takes it completely cold and relaxed, and it may be because he thinks: Yes, it is good with them. But next year, when I come up with this bill, where I write this three-year rule into a two-year rule, Mr. Marcus Knuth didn't do it anyway. What else can he do with reference to international conventions? Maybe it's there, sir. Marcus Knuth has a little to play with, and can say that the Minister should not count on it unless there is a real debate on the content of this and whether one can either find another way of solving it than by going from three to two years, or, as Mr. Marcus Knuth has opened the way for additional austerity to be found elsewhere, which can go in relation to the relaxation that is taking place here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142631	Well, that's a very good point, which I was also discussing a little earlier with Mr. Mads Birded. After all, we are not sure that we will vote in favour of the draft law that the Minister is proposing. Everything else is equal: if he wants to be sure, he should involve the parties, and he has not. Now it will be interesting to see what the Minister says on Friday, when he actually saw at the request of among others. I've invited us over to talk. I am also interested to see whether the red parties will vote in favour of a two-year rule when they are really so relaxed in foreign policy that they would prefer to see a one-year rule or a zero-year rule. So this is an interesting place the Minister has placed himself politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142705	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142706	The interesting thing in this context is that the head of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, the Prime Minister, promised before the elections that there would be no change in the essentials of foreign policy unless the bourgeois parties could see themselves in it. And I fully agree with Mr. Marcus Knuth in that when we talk here about family reunification rules, we are exactly inside some of the very hardcore rules of our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142731-2	I totally agree. And I remember that the Social Democrats were running advertisements with such a scrabble that they would make politics with different political parties and that the immigration policy was then with the blue parties. As Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says here, I would not even say that the Social Democrats have abandoned that principle, because I do not know whether they have been there at all, but here they make it very clear that there is no desire for close cooperation with the blue parties on a strict immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142756	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142757	Thank you. I was a little worried, to put it mildly and very diplomatically, when I heard Conservatives and the Left's draft text for adoption, which said something about relaxing immigration policy as little as possible. I thought for the sake of good cooperation, we'd let it go. However, when the rapporteur says that he is not sure that he will vote in favour of this proposal, I will be seriously concerned. Honestly, where does Conservatives stand? Will Conservatives back a settlement of foreigners, or will Conservatives stand firm and say: our mandates should not go to this; the government itself must be in a mess? If we had had the power of government, we would have looked after Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142848-2	I am not quite sure I understand where Mrs Pernille Vermund is on this issue, but the bottom line of what we are also saying is that we need to make proposals for tightening so that the overall picture remains the same. Everything else just has to be a minimum. I know that we are in a different place from New Citizens, but we have said that we will abide by this judgment, but it must, of course, be done as little as possible. It is, of course, the discussion we are having right now, that is to say, whether what the Minister is proposing is least possible, or one could make some of the good proposals which, among other things, could be made. The Danish People's Party has come along. But the bottom line is that we say: if you have to change the current rules, you have to tighten somewhere else, so the picture at least in this scenario stays the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142923	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142924	It's just interesting, all that time at some point it could be Conservative who sat with power. Would Conservatives relax foreign policy as little as possible, as is apparent from the text of the resolution? And as the rapporteur now says, the rapporteur has doubts as to whether the rapporteur's party will vote in favour of a relaxation of foreign policy. Well, I'm seriously worried about Conservative immigration policy here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027142954	I can tell you that if it were the case that we had government power and we were given power, as we have been watching, there are a lot of places where we would vote tighter immigration policy. As far as citizenship is concerned, we have proposed that there should be a ceiling. Well, we have proposed a lot of things. There are also very many parts of the permanent residence rules that I think we can look at. We have proposed banning noisy prayer calls from Muslim mosques, etc. We have come up with a lot of good things that the government is opposed to; but exactly in relation to this proposal, we say that if you have to turn somewhere, you have to tighten somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143029	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143029-2	I understand that for mr. Marcus Knuth is about finding good arguments to vote no. I would just like to add one more. I understand that the government intends to implement this change of practice now, but only intends to adopt the legal basis for it at a later stage. Is Mr. Marcus Knuth does not agree that this is an circumvention of Article 42 of the Constitution and the possibilities that a minority in the Folketing should have when the Folketing makes decisions to postpone the entry into force of it until a referendum has been held? After all, it is not unknown that we are parties here in the Folketing who have at least for a period of time tried to collect the necessary third minority in order to have referendums every time the government relaxes foreign policy. Is Mr. Marcus Knuth did not agree that this very clever maneuver really avoids using the opportunity offered by the Constitution by the Folketing's minority?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143133	I always find it very, very interesting to get legal advice from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt with the insight that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has as a lawyer. So I would very much like to discuss it. In other words, we have said several times that we are not just jumping into a referendum; after all, we are elected here democratically to have a majority or a minority. However, I myself am surprised that the government can actually legally oppose the existing legislation by making an exception until the draft law proposed by the Minister could be voted through in the future. Because I am not even sure, as it says here, that the Minister has a majority at all. So I would very, very much like to go with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. I also hope that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt can attend the meeting on Friday, where we can then have a more real discussion with the minister about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143220	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143220-2	Well, I am pleased about that, and it is precisely not about whether you are part of the third who thinks you should ask the people or not. It is a question of us, as elected representatives and as democrats, of course supporting each other in the fact that the institutionalised minority protection rules that apply must, of course, apply and must be enforced. And, of course, it could have been nice to ask those who then support the government in it, how they feel about evading the Folketing that opportunity. But thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143248	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143252	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143310	Thank you. If you have bad news or a story you would like to have to fly under the radar, you can send out a press release in the evening after normal working hours, like on a Friday, when journalists and Danes have picked up children and are eating dinner and then getting ready for Disney Fun and other Friday entertainment. It was such a communication trick that the government in this case found it convenient to spend a Friday evening in October, when foreign policy suddenly relaxed again by lowering the waiting time for family reunification from 3 years to 2 years. The government has sneaked the alien relief through the back door, but the government should not be allowed to do so without a fight. That is why I welcome this urgent debate in which we have the opportunity today to hold the Minister of Foreign Affairs to account. What, then, are the reasons why we are standing here? It is a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which again confirms that the Court is both activist and political, as the Government's own Minister of Justice has also indicated; how the Court's decisions and interpretations have moved away for miles from the Convention on which it is to judge. Back in 2016, the VLAK government decided to delay the possibility of family reunification for migrants who are granted temporary residence permits without being recognised as refugees under the Refugee Convention. This is the law that the Court of Human Rights overruled this summer. When the judgment fell, the Minister said that the lawyers had to examine the grounds of the judgment, but out of the blue the sad conclusion was announced on a Friday evening without the parties of the Folketing being called for discussion; not even the parties behind the agreement were sworn in. It should simply be quite clear to all politicians here in the Danish Parliament that we cannot continue with unconditional submission to Denmark and the Danes these activist and political judgments. An extremely politicising collection of lawyers and human rights activists in Strasbourg should not determine Denmark's foreign policy. The Danish immigration policy must be determined here in the Danish Parliament and thus by the Danish people. The Danes must be able to choose elected representatives who can pass laws and fulfil election promises without risk being overruled by a foreign court that has moved far, far away from the original purpose. The Danes must decide who and how many we let into our own country, and we must be able to make demands on all foreigners to comply with our laws and support themselves. The Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg shows that it stands for the exact opposite. The Court of Justice considers that it has the right to decide who we are to allow to stay for, how long they must be here and that they can get their family here. The Court considers that although foreigners steal, rob, commit violence and fraud, the Danes must still tolerate them, support them, provide them with housing, education and access to both health and pensions. The absurd interpretations of the Court of Justice have become so glaring that everyone in this Chamber must realise that it must stop now. In New Citizens we believe that the government should have ignored the sentence and maintained the Danish rules on family reunification. The Folketing should at all times state that Danish law in foreign policy is above the decisions of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Denmark would not be harmed by ignoring the judgment, because the Council of Europe, which is behind the Convention, has no means of power. On the other hand, it would be the beginning of a journey back to international cooperation based on reason and respect for the sovereignty of individual countries. That would mean something to the Danes' right to be able to decide in Denmark about our foreign policy, and we owe it to the Danes, and we owe it to the generations who will come after it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143726	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then we have reached the next rapporteur, who is from the Christian Democrats. Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027143742	It is always nice in these debates to have to come after Mrs Pernille Vermund, so that you can just as easily soften up and show that there is also heart on the bourgeois wing. These are some hefty speeches we hear; rhetorically well-puffed, but they do not get too little. And I find it interesting, Mrs Pernille Vermund, to say that we have a court that has gone a long way in its activist interpretation of the ideas of the conventions, in other words, as they were actually intended. If you pursue that thinking, you can turn it around and say that, in relation to our conventions and international commitments that you have the right to be with your family, that every person has the right to family life, it is really going extremely far, that we put people's lives on hold for two years. It's really going a long way. Try to turn it around, Mrs Pernille Vermund, and think about how you would experience it yourself. Would it be conducive to integration, and would it be conducive to your quality of life, that you had no opportunity for two years to be brought together in the family after you had fled, that is to say, where you have been granted refugee status? I'd like to admit that I actually think that's quite extreme from the point of view of my family values, i.e. that you're cut off from your family for two years. This is how we can feel in terms of how we assess what is extreme and what is not extreme. That is why it is a good thing that we have a court to make those decisions. We can always discuss it, and we will always do so and have done so for all the time I remember. For every time there is an international court, there are politicians here who think it is a politician and activist court that must now again intervene. Yes, it must interfere with the things that we have actually committed ourselves to. I think this is quite a good thing, and it should be a matter of course that we respected these decisions. Now, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and shaking his head, and I heard that Mr. Marcus Knuth said it's always good to get advice from Mr. Knuth. Morten Messerschmidt, who has legal insight. I must also say that I see Mr. Morten Messerschmidt as a legal beacon • quite clearly. That's the kind of thing you have to keep away from, or you're going on land. That is what would be the consequence of following the path of both the Danish People's Party and the New Citizens' Party in relation to our international obligations. After all, the eternal denial of our international commitments will be that we will have a government that simply cannot act credible internationally. Is that in Denmark's interest? It can never be. It can never be in Denmark's interest that one cannot rely on Denmark to comply with its international obligations, and blue parties, bourgeois parties, must of course think about this, not least if one wants to take the Prime Minister's Office, i.e. if one really wants to let it rest on a basis based on the principles of the Danish People's Party and New Citizens' Party. It's either sir. Søren Pape Poulsen or Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen will have to deal with this at some point. We have a clear wish, and that is to pull towards the middle and work across the middle and find the pragmatic solutions and, of course, comply with its international obligations and not the opposite, for which DF and New Citizens are campaigning. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144154	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144156	Thank you. In other words, we are just deeply, deeply divided when it comes to whether the most important thing is to look after the Danes or whether the most important thing is the consideration of international cooperation, the consideration of international agreements and one's reputation in the world. The rapporteur is a federalist. I am a nationalist and a nationalist. I'm looking out for Denmark, and that's what I'm here for. When this is important to us, it is because we have been able to see how decades of failed immigration policy, where too many people from Muslim countries have come here, have left its deep, deep traces in our society. We agree on this in a broad majority of the Danish Parliament, all the way to the Social Democratic Party, and there is just a minority of the rapporteur's party. Now the rapporteur says that it would be terrible if we did not have the right to a family life for two years. I agree with that, but it is not the case that we have been down in the Middle East stealing these people here. After all, it is people who have fled, not just to the nearest country, but through several safe countries to get here, and why? Because we have welfare benefits and because we have a health system that is completely different. They do not flee from Germany to Denmark to achieve peace... they flee because of our welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144314	I simply do not recognise the narrative that some people take more care of Denmark than others. You can't patent that. I might as well patent that because I recognise that we are living in a globalised world, we are also complying with the international obligations that we ourselves have signed up to. And then you just have to remember one thing, Mrs Pernille Vermund, and that is that the conventions have just been drawn up in order not to have uncontrollable flows of refugees. That's what they're made for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144351	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144352	If that were true and if they worked, then we wouldn't have been standing in 2015 with 20,000 migrants who poured in across the Danish borders and when I say migrants, then I mean migrants. Because it wasn't Germans, it was people who had fled from afar through several safe countries, and when you flee the first safe country, you are no longer a refugee, but a migrant. These are the people we are talking about; they are people who have fled through a number of safe countries in large numbers who have come here and now have the opportunity to be brought together on even better terms. That is what we are facing. More than 20,000 people can now bring their families here on lax terms. It is causing great damage to our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144431	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144432	It is true that they were not Germans, and I do not really see any reason why they should flee, but I do not know if I misunderstood Mrs Pernille Vermund. I just want to say one thing to this discussion when those proportions just kind of get off the rails. When I was young, it was 78%. of all internally displaced persons and refugees living in the neighbourhood. Today it is 88%. So there are considerable parts of this world that take their big tow to deal with people on the run. We also have a responsibility to participate in that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144515	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144518	I think it would actually suit Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde said he was quoting. I'm thinking of the allegory with the lighthouse, because it's not Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde's own subtlety. No, this whole thing about guarding yourself from a beacon was what D.G. Monrad said about Grundtvig. I'd like to play Grundtvig, and I think that Mr. Jens Rohde, in his world-removal in many areas, is also reminiscent of Mr. The President Monrad. One of the things I think about when I think about D.G. Monrad, after the total collapse of 1864 he emigrated. Jens Rohde obviously knows when he quotes him to New Zealand. And in the latest inventory of freedom in the world, New Zealand is the freest country in the world. What I want to ask is how it can be when New Zealand is not included in the European Convention on Human Rights. Because I understand that if the rest of us step out of the Convention, we will take into account in darkness and undemocraticism and totalitarianism. How on earth can it be that the freest country in the world is a country that is not part of the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144633	Well, it's a weird discussion to start with, isn't it? It's funny that sir. Mads Fuglede sits and laughs at it, as the Left, as I know, confesses to the European Convention on Human Rights, since bourgeois parties that want to be in government say time and again that they are committed to international obligations. And that's what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt does not, and Mrs Pernille Vermund does not. At least that's honest talk. I have respect for that. It's fair enough to say you have to get out of it. That is a position, and then let us discuss it. But the whole time saying that you confess to international obligations, and by the way, do everything you can to save such fragments of them from going to the border, beyond the border, and what do I just think is not decent when we talk about the people in the world who are most at risk. And then we can just have different entrances to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144733	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144734	Well, now I just didn't ask about sir. Mads Birded, now I asked you about the context of Mr. Jens Rohde's analysis. Sir. Jens Rohde is in favour of Denmark staying in the European Convention on Human Rights, and I understand that this is because if we are not, it will affect the freedom and security of ordinary people, etc. Then I would point out that the most free country in the world is a country that is not part of the European Convention on Human Rights. We can also just go down the list a little bit: just below Denmark lies, for example. Canada, which is also not part of the European Convention on Human Rights. There's just what I'm asking. Jens Rohde is so insistent that the Danes are not allowed to decide the foreign policy and that it is because otherwise we lose freedom? But there are countries that can manage both and be more free than Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144817	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144818	But I have not taken up that debate on freedom in this context at all. It's sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who does it. For me, it is a Christian, ethical, humanitarian imperative that we of course take responsibility for part of the world we are part of, including the weakest.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144836	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and have reached the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027144846	Thank you for a good debate, which I would like to put a little word on, but before I get that far, I just need to clear up a misunderstanding. I think that it has been said more than once or at least been insinuated that the administration that the Foreigners' Board has today's date of the family reunification rules should be contrary to the Danish law on foreigners. So let me just elaborate on what is quite low-practical. So we have a clause in the Aliens Act which says that if you have temporary protection status, you have to wait three years. There is still a three in the Aliens Act, and it continues to stand until the Folketing has decided that there should be something other than a three. This means that you can't get a residence permit under that paragraph unless you've been here for 3 years. It's self-evident. Then we have another paragraph in the Aliens Act, which I mentioned in my speech, which is called Paragraph 9c, which is a kind of sweeping magazine, and which is the paragraph on which you can obtain a residence permit if the conventions require you to have a residence permit and there is no other place in the law where you can obtain a residence permit. So that means that those people who have a temporary residence permit and who have been here for more than 2 years, but less than 3 years, can now, if they comply with the other conditions, get what is called a §9c residence permit. So it is not administered in violation of the Aliens Act. If we hadn't had this sweeping paper, this section 9c, we would have had to put matters on hold until the Folketing had adopted a new paragraph which would allow residence permits to be granted on the basis of. What I have then said and announced is that the government is going to table a bill which brings the law on foreigners into line with the ruling passed, and there is our bid that we should go from three to two years. There you can go anywhere, you can also go down to 11⁄2 years, you can come up with many things, and we can have an ordinary political debate on that in the Folketing, which we have over 100 times a year, with consultation period and committee reading and first, second and third reading everything. Then I would like to say something about the debate. There has also been some discussion about whether it was relevant or not to have this debate. I would like to say that I think this has been a relevant debate, and many of the questions that have been asked have also been put in the course of the process. I think we just have to remember one thing before we paint the damn wall: Austria now has over 20,000 asylum seekers this year, they are 9 million inhabitants and we are barely 6 million. They have many, many more than we have. They are on the typical Balkan route, from which we also receive many asylum seekers. We do not see the same increases in our asylum numbers in Denmark at all, and we do not, because we have been pursuing a real immigration policy for some years now. We must, of course, stick to that. That is why we have historically low asylum rates. They're historically low. This means that fewer people have to have a general residence in Danish municipalities, that fewer practitioners have to have a new citizen they have to take into account, and that fewer schools have to integrate new children. Danish society must undertake fewer integration tasks. We have a lower and lower number of rejected asylum seekers in the sending position. After we have made the new Return Travel Board, we have gone from 1,100 to 950. We have more at work; more young people receiving training; lower crime; more young people who can choose their own spouse without parental involvement. All of this is successful because a strict foreign policy is being pursued. Integration is successful because the influx is low and it must be maintained at a low level. I believe that one of the reasons why much of this has succeeded, and one of the reasons why Denmark has succeeded in having a strict immigration policy, is that we have a constant discussion about it too, a constant discussion about the judgments that fall, in order to constantly find the best legislation. This requires that we bite the law in our hamstrings, that we bite the minister in our hamstrings, that we bite each other in our hamstrings, that we keep our heads up constantly and make sure that we find legislation that maintains strict foreign policy. For this reason too, I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it is necessary and important that we constantly meet and discuss and come out into the corners of what is going on in the field of foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145256	Thank you. There are four points to be made in short, and we have seven minutes left of the urgent question. So if Members want to allow as many Members as possible to have their questions put to them, please do so as briefly as possible. The first is sir. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145313	Thank you. The minister has, of course, met massive criticism from the blue parties, minus the Christian Democrats on this issue, and one of the key points has been that the minister has not called the parties behind the current three-year rule to a discussion on what to do before simply reporting de facto that you go from 3 to 2 years. Will the Minister at least listen to the call made by the blue parties to scrap that proposal by two years and then call the parties to a debate? It may be that you land in the same place... so maybe you don't. Or is it the case that the Minister wants to maintain that bill, and then we just have to take the debate in the Chamber instead of over in a negotiating room?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145354	I think there are two links to this. One is that there has been a judgment. My responsibility is to ensure that Danish administration functions within the framework of the rules that we have agreed to, including the European Convention on Human Rights. I do not really think that resolution can be discussed; nor can I put it down to 11⁄2 years, because it would be contrary to the law on foreigners. It has to be exactly where the European Court of Human Rights has said it has to lie. I do not really think that makes any sense. It is a narrow professional, legal assessment. Then there is the second: what the political follow-up to that judgment will be. There we are preparing a bill, and we would very much like to discuss this with not only the blue side of the House, but with the whole parliament. After all, there is no settlement or agreement on the family reunification rules for refugees. This is something that has been adopted here in the Danish Parliament, and we would very much like to discuss it with the Danish Parliament. And, as I said earlier today in the debate, we do not see it as such that the law on foreigners should not be tightened up. On the contrary, there are several legislative proposals on the legislative programme that has been put forward, which are about tightening up the law on foreigners, and we are not going to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145459	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145502	The people we are talking about here should never have been in Denmark. It is migrants who have traveled through several safe countries to get here. They're not fugitives. You're a fugitive when you get to the first safe country. After that, they've moved on. They even left their families. Now we're talking about family reunification. I do not think anyone here is opposed to family reunification, but we are against this happening in Denmark. If these people who have traveled through so many safe countries to come here today, who are here and have been granted asylum status, must be brought together in the family, what is the reason why this part-out should happen in Denmark? In other words, there must be one or more family members somewhere else with which they can be brought together, in other words where they are. Has the Minister and the government even considered this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145554	You can only get this kind of family reunification permission if your family life cannot be lived out elsewhere. This means, in concrete terms, for a Syrian who has been granted asylum in Denmark, for example. because he is a conscientious objector and who makes an application for a family reunification permit, that one then evaluates whether that family life can be lived out in Syria. And if the conclusion is that it cannot be, because conscientious objectors there are at risk of persecution or torture, then it is noted that family life must then be lived in Denmark. This is the basis for granting a family reunification permit. That is the legal answer. In addition, however, I agree with what I consider to be the underlying stream of Mrs Pernille Vermund's question, namely whether the current asylum system makes any sense at all. Can you even stand on the Danish-German border and be Syrian citizen and claim to be persecuted? That is the whole reason why this government is working to establish a new asylum system to move asylum procedures out of Europe. Because we fully recognise that this does not make sense, as the asylum system is now screwed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145701	Thank you. I think that if we move on to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, we'll get to the last of them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145707	Thank you. The Minister has given the impression that with the documents you have from the officials and something like that it is quite natural to say a two-year rule now instead of a three-year rule in the way you practice. Because we have been readily explained here that there are still three years left in the legislation, but that in practice it is administered according to a two-year rule. But why has the Minister, when it is as simple as it has been wanted to produce it, actually chosen to put forward legislative proposals to bring the Aliens Act up to date, as stated in what has been sent out during 2022, so that the Aliens Act can be kept up to date, with the way it actually is going on? If it is so simple, why wait until sometime in 2022? Why does not a legislative initiative come quickly to the Danish Parliament so that we have the opportunity to deal with the content?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145758	I would like to start by saying that the European Convention on Human Rights is formally the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. And when the lawyers in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration have done an analysis, the government stands on it. We are not beginning to catch up on all kinds of external contributions, just as the Minister of Finance is not beginning to catch up on external contributions with calculations of the consequences of various policy actions. That's the one thing I want to say. The second is that the legislative proposal we are going to prepare is not just a question of changing a three to a two, because then I would give Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is right that it would seem a little strange that it should take so long. It is also a question of e.g. to define what we mean by mass influx. In particular, I think there will be an important and interesting political debate on this, which I also tried to refer to a little earlier. Because, as I see it, if what this is about is proportionality, that is what the court has tried to find between the fair consideration of integration by the Danish community on the one hand and the individual's right to family life on the other, then I think that our concern for integration, the Danish community, cannot be linked only to the influx of the last year or two years. It should be interesting how the influx of the past many years has been. How far I can go with it legally, I am in doubt, but that is one of the things I would very much like to discuss politically with all the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145912	Thank you. Then we can just get to Mr. Knox's. Morten Messerschmidt for the last brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145915	It was just to follow up on Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's question. So, the Minister is well aware that by doing so in this staggered way, he is preventing the minority or minority of the Folketing from triggering a referendum. It's a dish we usually have. After all, how did the Minister feel about us all signing up to comply with the Basic Law to choose a procedure whereby a minority in the Danish Parliament is deliberately prevented from trying to get the voters to block what the Minister is doing, in other words, a constitutional right?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027145945	I simply do not understand that. In other words, the constitutional right enshrined in the Constitution, which we can all pull out under our drawers, has not prevented it. The members of the Folketing always have the right to do so. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt can then initiate a petition today and see if you can gather the majority of the Folketing, and then it is triggered. It's always like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150007	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt is just allowed to elaborate on the matter with the last brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150010	No, it's not like that, Minister. So, paragraph 42 of the Constitution says that one third of the members of the Folketing can have a bill passed by a majority postponed until after the voters have been heard in a referendum. But of course this requires the government to put forward a bill before you start administering it, and what I understand the government is doing here is starting to administer according to a new practice, then getting a bill through. This means that the minority protection normally provided for in Paragraph 42 of the Constitution, in which a minority can ask the voters to be heard before starting to administer, is put out of effect. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150045	I do not agree that the basic law here has been put out of effect. Thus, we administer according to the applicable alien law, which means that those who have been here for more than 2 years but less than 3 years and otherwise comply with all other conditions, can obtain a residence permit under § 9c as adopted by the Folketing. What I am saying is that it makes no sense to have to stand somewhere else in the Aliens Act, that it is three years. If in practice it is the case that it is administered after you get it after this 9c permit, then I think it would be fair to the Folketing to say that then it should be in the Aliens Act that people can relate to, what is the practical reality, and that is what I look forward to presenting to the Folketing. And if there is a qualified minority who wants it to be postponed until after a referendum, then it is working completely according to the general rules of the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150130	Thank you to the Minister and thank the rapporteurs for being helpful in keeping up with the time, so we are now ready for Question Time. As no one else has asked for the floor and cannot get it, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday 28 October 2021. Now we need to prepare for Question Time so that those of you who are not going to take part in Question Time are allowed to draw a little bit to the side and take the subsequent debate a little away from the question desk, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150221	The first question is to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150233	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150236	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Minister for Justice for coming here and answering the question. The question is simple: does the Minister agree that it can never be legitimate for a government to continue a practice which it knows to be illegal? And, of course, I ask in general terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150256	Thank you for the question. My position and that of the government is, of course, that no one should do anything illegal. I am of course also thinking that the questioner agrees with that, since he is also a member of our legislature.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150315	Thank you. But then I have to try to ask: what consequences does the Minister of Justice think it should have if a government currently in office breaks the constitution's intentions that there should be a legal basis for the things the government is implementing?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150335	It is such a question where one cannot help thinking, given what the public debate also contains, that such a premise has been introduced, which will be somewhat a la: Have you stopped beating your wife?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150354	Okay. Then I have to ask whether the Minister for Justice can mention a valid reason why the current government is violating the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150407	I mean, it's gonna be a little circular, right? For the reasons for derogating from legislation, the derogation is legal, if I may say so. Now let's take a thoughtful example. You can't drive too fast, but there may well be an emergency court situation where, because of the emergency court the wife has to give birth, you will have to drive too red to get there. Are we then in a situation when we take advantage of emergency law that what is otherwise illegal becomes legal? Or is it an illegal act which will then be legal because of emergency law? So it depends a little on the construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150449	Yeah, we'll get around. But I could also be tempted to ask: which minister is ultimately responsible if a government acts without a legal basis, and the current Prime Minister is aware that there is no legal basis for the action carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150509	That is enough, it has to be said, on the edge of the question, but let it be put at risk. The responsibility of Ministers is basically governed by the law of ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150518	Thank you. There are no further follow-up questions, and we thank the Minister for Justice and thank him. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party. We will continue with Mrs Karina Adsbøl of the Danish People's Party, who will ask questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150536	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150538	Does the Minister think that one can be a good parent according to the values we have in Denmark if one has gone to Syria to join the Islamic State and back up the IS values?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150550	I would like to start by stating that I believe that people who have gone to Syria to go to holy war for the Islamic State have turned their backs on Denmark and our Danish values. It is unacceptable, and it is also quite incomprehensible, and it is even more incomprehensible to me that it is possible, as a parent, to take your children to a dangerous area of conflict. As a parent, one of the most important tasks is to give your children care and security, to look after them properly and to ensure that they have their basic needs met. Bringing children to a war zone and putting them at risk and seriously at risk of abuse and radicalisation is for me to see a huge failure of those children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150632	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150633	I do not think the Minister really answered the question, which was, of course, whether the Minister thinks that one can be a good parent according to the values we have in Denmark, if one has gone to Syria to join the Islamic State and back up the IS values. The reason why I ask the Minister whether she thinks that women from Syria can be good parents is, of course, that the government has been immensely closed in its answers as to what should happen next. I think we need to know that the Minister thinks it is okay for the children to continue their upbringing with a parent who has volunteered to be part of the Islamic State. So I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this, i.e. whether the Minister thinks they can be good parents and what should happen to the children. I am aware that children in Denmark have been forcibly removed for less. Is it the Minister's view that these children should be forcibly removed? Is it the Minister's opinion that these children should be adopted away? Or what does the Minister think will happen to the children who have now returned to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150737	I really thought I made my position very clear in the initial answer. Bringing children to a war zone and putting them at the risk of abuse and radicalisation is, to me, a huge failure of those children. I, like the rest of the government, believe that it is absolutely right for mothers to be held accountable for their actions. As the media have shown, which I believe the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has also followed, there are, as far as mothers are concerned, specific criminal proceedings in which mothers are accused of violating the terrorist provisions of Articles 114e and 114j (1) of the Criminal Code. 1, and it is now up to the judicial system to ensure that they receive the punishment they must have.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150818	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150819	Well, the minister still didn't answer the question about what's going to happen to these kids. Some of these kids are a little older, that's... 14-15 years, and may also be extremely affected and perhaps radicalised in relation to being in that environment. So I would like to hear from the Minister: is it the position of the Minister that these children should be placed outside the home and have some other values or that they should be given away? Or what is the Minister's position on what will happen to the children afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150854-2	These children have suffered so much, a huge failure on the part of their parents in an upbringing with a framework that is monstrous to imagine. And that's why it's absolutely crucial to me that these kids are now getting the help they need. Whether it's one or the other effort for these children is and remains up to the specific municipalities that are responsible for the children. It is not and should not be us politicians who, in a debate in the Parliamentary Assembly, make decisions in specific cases relating to children. In fact, I think the questioner agrees with me on that. And then, of course, we have PET and other relevant authorities to take a position on the issue of radicalisation and terrorist threats, if that is what Mrs Adsbøl is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027150937	Should I understand the Minister's reply that it is the Minister's opinion that these children are dependent on how these trials are going... can't stay or live at home with their mothers? Now we don't know how these trials are going to go, but does the Minister think that these children should be placed outside the home? Is that the Minister's position? And what does the minister think should happen to these kids? They should in a different environment from what they have been in, in other words, to ensure that they grow up with Danish values? Or what does the Minister really think will happen to the children who have been brought home?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151016	As I said, I believe that we are dealing with some children who have been subjected to an outrageous failure by parents who have chosen to turn their backs not only on Denmark and our Danish values and to go to Syria, but who have chosen to take their children into such an inflamed area of conflict with the risk of abuse, with all that is involved. And that is why the most important thing for me right now is for the children to be calmed down, for them to have the necessary support and the help they need. And it is not us here at Christiansborg who deal with the specific children's cases; there are professionals who have to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151053	Thank you. The question has been answered. We will continue with Mrs Karina Adsbøl of the Danish People's Party, who will ask questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151102	Thank you. I am asking a new question about something else: does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for a citizen not to be able to take his BPA helper to the hospital by hospitalization?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151114	Thank you for the question. The overall purpose of the Services Act's aid scheme is to provide the basis for flexible aid schemes based on citizens' self-determination so that citizens can maintain or build an independent life. There is a flexibility in the system, as the aid must be measured with the aim of enabling the citizen to live an independent life by the same helpers carrying out all the assistance in the scheme. By enabling the citizen himself to hire his helpers, who could potentially be employed by the citizen for several years, a security and quality of assistance will be created, among other things. because the helpers are fully aware of the needs of the citizen. The Services Act's aid schemes are quite special schemes, as they include: gives the citizen the opportunity to manage the aid himself. Of course, when a citizen with an aid scheme is admitted, the citizen must have the necessary help during the admission process... anything else would be unreasonable. Now I do not know whether this is a specific matter to which the questioner refers with his question, but I can say in more general terms that it follows from the principle of sectoral responsibility that it is the responsibility of the health system that the citizen is offered the right treatment and assistance during hospitalization. This means, among other things, that it is the regions which are responsible for providing the necessary staff for hospitalization and treatment, etc. in a hospital. However, there may be special needs of the citizen, for example about communication, which may require that the help team around the citizen in the day-to-day life can also provide support to citizens in hospital. The municipality must therefore always assess, in relation to the individual helper scheme, whether it would be most appropriate to keep the helpers during, for example, hospitalization, so that the citizen after the end of the stay continues to have the professional, necessary and qualified helpers. This issue of challenges by taking helpers with hospitalization or treatment is one of the issues that the Ministry has looked at in its internal work and which I will call for discussions on as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151259-2	I would like to express my satisfaction that the Minister will convene discussions. I also hope that this means that we will be included in the debate in the blue block. I would like to ask the Minister if the Minister has seen the TV 2 broadcasts • Calling from the hospital, then I would like to hear from the Minister whether, in the light of the reports, she believes that the health staff always have enough time to give a citizen with disabilities the practical help they need. The fact is, it's a challenge. It has been written on several occasions, and the disability organisations are also very aware of this, so that you do not actually have the right to take your helper to the hospital precisely because of the principle of sectoral responsibility. I know there's also a decision of principle from the Ankestyrelsen based on these. So I want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister will help to change the legislation and ensure that when you are disabled and have a BPA scheme, your helper can also keep up during a stay in the hospital also in view of the challenges that are generally related to our staff at the hospital, which are already under heavy pressure on time so that we can ensure that as a citizen you can get your help with, which both provides security and creates a better framework for the citizen, but which also helps to relieve the staff at the hospitals. Is this a change of law that the Minister will help to ensure, or what has the Minister come up with in this internal work that has been done?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151446	Thank you. First of all I can say that I have not had the opportunity to see the television broadcast in question, so I also find it difficult to make any further comments on it. I'd better not go into that, because I haven't seen the broadcast, and I haven't come across it in any other way. To what the questioner then asks, I would like to say that it is indeed the case that the municipalities today can choose to set a level of service which allows one to include one's helper in hospitalization, so it is not something that requires a change in the law that that possibility exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151520	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151521	Yeah, I think it certainly is. I cannot understand why it should be a problem for the citizen to bring his helper, because the municipality has searched the citizen for this BPA scheme, and the helper is someone the citizen knows and trusts. And I would just like to ask whether the Minister does not think that it will create more security for those who need help? I am surprised that the Minister says that it does not require amendment of the law, because it is a 'can' clause. That is something where the municipality can say that it is allowed to do so or that it is not allowed to do so. And then we have, one might say, an unresolved issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151604	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151605	Thank you. But then we have talked past each other, because I heard the questioner calling for the municipalities to be given the opportunity to set a level of service where the helper can be taken in hospital. But I understand that the questioner is in favour, that is to say that this is the way the legislation is today. The second proposal will, of course, constitute a fundamental breach of the whole principle of sectoral responsibility, and the basic principle of the government does not intend to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151632	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151633	So I understand the Minister's reply that the Minister will not ensure that it will be a right for citizens with disabilities who have a helper that the helper can bring the citizen to the hospital, both during outpatient visits and during admissions. Because, as I hear the Minister, the Minister is not interested in us having a change of law in this area. Well, now the Minister himself mentions the principle of sectoral responsibility, but we have major challenges in relation to sectors. We can see it in the AT area in relation to the delimitation circular, so that health care will have to provide treatment tools and the municipality with aids. After all, there are major challenges, and by guaranteeing citizens a right here, a good solution could be ensured.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151715	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151716	Now I also believe that the discussion was spread somewhat beyond both the specific issue here and, in part, my responsibility for the matter, so I will not go into the wide-ranging discussion in this way, but just say that the aid schemes are of course important and that I can hear that various concerns are raised. And that is also the background to the work that has been set in motion in my ministry, where, among other things, we... If this problem is identified with helpers and the possibility of including helpers in hospital, we will have an opportunity to discuss it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151754	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Adsbøl. We will continue with the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, and this time the questioner is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151811	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151814	Thank you for that, President. If the Minister considers that the provision of home help at night to citizens who have previously received help at night through a personal helper under Section 96 of the Service Act is a reasonable offer if, among other things, it: means that a citizen must stay awake one hour to one and a half in the night and wait for help for a toilet visit when, for example, this one. Do you have to get up early in the morning and do a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151840	Thank you for the question. Of course, it is not reasonable for a citizen to be left with uncovered aid needs because BPA, according to Section 96 of the Service Act, is combined with other assistance under the Service Act. This seems to me to be a very specific matter to which the questioner refers during the questioning round just now; a matter to which I must say I do not know in detail, and which is why I find it difficult to go into it. More generally, however, I can say that it is very clear from the guidance in this area that the starting point for measuring aid under § 96 is usually that the measurement should cover all citizens' needs for personal and practical help, monitoring and accompanying. Aid under § 96 can be combined with other forms of aid, such as: personal and practical assistance, care and care, to the extent that the citizen wishes. In other words, help under § 96 can be combined only with other help, e.g. personal and practical help if the citizen so wishes. It is also a firm principle behind the Services Act that the citizen must always have the help which, in a concrete and individual assessment, responds to the general needs of the citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151948	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027151949	After all, the Minister will not really give a precise answer to the use of home help at night to BPA users. This gives me the opportunity to ask what the Minister thinks of a municipality in a letter to a citizen who has previously received BPA assistance at night, asking the citizen to plan his toilet visits at night or, as an alternative, to wait an hour for help to get his CPAP corrected. If so, does the Minister consider that the needs of the citizen are met?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152024	As I said before, I am not familiar with the specific case, nor can I stand here in concrete terms, but, as I said in my reply, a BPA under Article 96 of the Services Act can combine it with other forms of support, for example. personal and practical help, which is what I hear the questioner refers to here, to the extent that the citizen himself wants it. That's what's kind of the rule here. So, the starting point is that the measurement of help according to § 96 must cover all citizens' needs for personal and practical help, monitoring and accompanying. So in relation to the example that I hear the questioner brings here, a municipality cannot simply replace it in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152108	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152109	It is in a sense positive to hear from the Minister, because unfortunately that is what is actually happening with the support of the Ankestyrelsen. And this isn't just a case I've taken out of the blue, but it's a case from the real world, which actually has quite extensive consequences for the person it's about, this person who has to try to plan his toilet visits at night and also wait up to an hour and a half. I would like to ask the Minister exactly: does the Minister think that it is a reasonable help and that it is reasonable for the citizen to wait at night for home help to go to the bathroom or get his CPAP corrected?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152148	I cannot, of course, go into a specific case of a specific citizen, but I can say that, to the extent that the citizen himself wishes to do so, help can be combined under section 96 with other types of aid. If a municipality makes a decision on the conversion of some of the citizen's section 96 aid to other aid against the citizen's wishes, then the citizen can and is apparently a specific citizen, this is a complaint to the Ankestyrelsen, and I would urge that the specific citizen who has approached the questioner make use of this. After all, we are not the ones who can stand here and deal with matters in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152223	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152224	But I can inform the Minister there that this has actually happened. So there is no more scope for this citizen, and what I was listening to is that there is at least a divergence between what the Minister is saying today and what is the real world. But I would like to come back to the question again, i.e. whether the Minister thinks it is reasonable for a municipality to ask a citizen to plan his toilet visits at night.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152251	One should not be left as a citizen with an uncovered need for help, because BPA, according to section 96 of the Service Act, is combined with other help under the Service Act, and this must happen only if the citizen wants it, and I do not think I can say it much more clearly than this. I am not going to be dealing with a specific case which I do not know, and even if I knew it, I would very much recommend that we do not take specific action in this Chamber. So I think I have explained the rules as clearly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152322	Thank you. The question has been answered. We shall continue with the next question, which has also been asked by Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152335	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable to reduce personal assistance under sections 95 and 96 of the Service Act at night, with reference to the fact that any aid should be granted under the Health Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152347-2	The citizen must, of course, always have the assistance under the Service Act to which he or she is entitled and which responds to the need for assistance. Now I do not know whether this is also a specific case to which the questioner refers with his question, and that is why I do not know whether it is some particular types of healthcare that are involved, but more generally I can say that the needs of citizens in the target groups of aid schemes under the legislation can also include help for everyday things of a more health-related nature, which citizens without disabilities are usually expected to be able to carry out themselves, for example. to take pills or do extensive exercises. It is already the case today that the needs of citizens in the target groups for aid schemes include both larger and smaller tasks spread around the clock. That is why it is not necessarily predictable when the aid is to be delivered, and specifically for what tasks. The assessment of aid must therefore be based on the purpose of the aid schemes, so it must not be so narrow that the hours can only be measured for aid at specific times or for specific activities, as this will reduce the flexibility and self-determination provided for in the schemes. However, a concrete and individual assessment will always have to be made as to whether the activities needed for assistance can be included in the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152514	Thank you. I agree with that in principle, but when you look into the real world as a citizen, it may well be a somewhat different picture you experience. When you have a significant disability, there are often very many different needs for help and legislation at play, and regardless of whether it is the right legislation or whether you can fight around, whether you think the paragraphs do not belong properly, I would like to ask the Minister whether it makes sense to ensure that the citizen experiences a holistic approach, regardless of which legislation you are trying to put this support under, and that, among other things, you can be sure that you do not. can use a BPA, although there may be something health related, rather than finding holes in the cheese and seeing where you can save money. It is true that there are many different specific cases, but it is not uncommon for me to know that the minister is aware that the municipalities are trying to get rid of the BPA scheme, for example. At night, which we have just discussed, for example, it replaces home help and then refers to health legislation. So I ask the Minister again, knowing that this is not a specific matter we are talking about, but that it is of a purely principle nature if it does not make sense to make a more holistic approach in the help that the citizen should have, rather than making it so fragmented.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152646	I would like to start by saying that I am aware that there may be problems with minor services that border on health. I myself mentioned two examples here: taking pills or doing extensive exercises, and in some places there is an experience that it is defined as health care that can only be provided by health professionals, and then there is a set-off, and this is a well-known issue, which among other things. The BPA network has travelled, as the questioner well knows, are the disabled organisations which have many members with assistance schemes. That is why it is also one of the issues which has been included in the internal work done by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152728	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152729	Sometimes you may have a little experience that, for example, the principle of sectoral responsibility can become a principle of responsibility. And that is exactly what I would like to focus on today, and where I would also like some answers from the Minister today to what we can do to ensure that these citizens do not end up like a lice between two nails, and that they get a help that is totally unreasonable and that in reality it will not be able to hang together and that you have to have a run of many different people in your home and in your life.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152805	Basically, I think we as a society owe it to us to do what we can to put ourselves in the place of the citizens and think as holistic as possible, and quite often I think we can see that this is the answer. If we are talking about the everyday actions that a citizen without disabilities would be able to take, like taking his pills or doing his or her extensive exercises, then it is also benefits that are covered by the BPA. And then it makes sense that I would think that both sides of the table would of course be covered by the scheme here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152841	Thank you. Then it is the questioner for the last follow-up question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152843	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Minister will help to strengthen the legislation so that we can ensure that it will be the citizen's right to take a holistic approach to the help that the citizen needs, rather than the fact that it will be primarily the fights between sectors and between different legislations that will govern the course of the battle.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152908	I do not know what kind of legal amendment the questioner is referring to, which is why it is impossible to say yes or no to this. Depending on what it is for a change of law, it will have different consequences and require different funding. So it's gonna be hard to discuss this overall. So if the questioner has a very specific proposal for a change of law, the questioner should be welcome to raise it, and then we can take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152937	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly and to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. The next question is to the Minister for Health, and that is what Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152949	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027152952	Thank you. Will the Minister comment on the article • Each other attempt to hire a nurse fails from Dr.dk on 5 October 2021, which describes that 3,450 posts could not be filled with a qualified nurse within 5 months, and will the Minister explain below whether he acknowledges that the challenges of recruitment and retention are related to the salaries and working conditions of nurses?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153022	Yeah, I'd love to. We know that staff have been running very fast for a long time, and that does not end in the coming months, as we all know. And I fully acknowledge that the recruitment situation is difficult both for recruitment and for retention, that is to say that you can continue to maintain employees in our health care system. The latest figures we have from the Danish Labour Market and Recruitment Agency speak its clear language. The figures show that almost half of the job vacancies for nurses in the regions from the spring have not been filled after 3 months. In my reply, I will not go into future wage conditions, but can refer to the structure of wages committee, which is anchored in the Ministry of Employment. However, there may be many reasons for the unoccupied nursing positions in the regions in the spring. During the period from March to June 2021 there were months for months between 300 and 500 registered vacant nurses. It shows numbers from the nurses' a-box. In the corresponding months of last year there were between 700 and 800 available nurses. So there are very few available nurses • even fewer this year than there were last year. Another explanation may be that it has been made possible for the regions to employ more nurses with a permanent extraordinary grant of 600 million. kr. This is a good initiative. The recruitment of nurses has subsequently been increasing. The latest figures from before the conflict indicated that we were heading towards the goal. At the same time, the number of registered nurses has increased from 3,800 in 2017 to 4,100 this year. This is the result of an increase in the number of places in nursing education in recent years. And if you make the projections and it's our job to look at it all the time, it turns out that the number of nurses employed will increase by approx. 3.700 towards 2025, if we can make them want to work in our health care, and that is exactly what I think our joint work must be about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153223	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153224	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. I am, in fact, pleased that the Minister himself mentions the study from STAR, where it has been shown that 47 per cent. the recruitment of nurses has not resulted in a result. I think it is part of history that if we look back the last three years, the figure in 2019 was 23 per cent, by 2020 it was 33 per cent, and then by 2021 it is 47 per cent. This suggests that there is a very unfortunate and worrying development in which it is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit and maintain those nurses who are absolutely necessary to ensure the proper functioning of health care. We also know that the number of nurses seeking away from the profession has doubled in just 8 months. This in itself is a worrying picture, and when you ask the nurses who are considering going away from the profession why they want to get away from the profession, then 56 per cent answer. of them, that the reason why they want to move away is about the pay conditions. 43% states that it is about better working conditions. So if we are going to solve this problem, will the Minister recognise that this is about ensuring both better pay conditions but, of course, also better working conditions? But to break it completely away from the discussion on terms and conditions of pay and employment, I believe, would be a glaring failure of our health services if we were to avoid the very, very serious situation that suggests we are in right now. So will the Minister recognise that both working conditions, but also wage conditions, are an important factor in maintaining and recruiting the staff we agree that we need in health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153421	The numbers, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund mentions here, I have no reason to doubt. Nor am I aware that there should be challenges in the way data have been collected. You've asked, as I understand it, the nurses themselves, so I guess you can use that as a basis. What I can focus on is, of course, what concerns the Health Act, and it is therefore also on many aspects, at least how the work is organised, or at least what the structure behind the organisation is. And it can only be seen that these structures have not been good enough, and that is a large part of the reason why I look forward to making a health agreement with the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153457	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153458	But the Minister for Health is here today precisely as Minister for Health. I understand that the whole question of the pay structure committee lies elsewhere. However, the Minister for Health is responsible for the whole of health, and if we can now see that the terms and conditions of employment are so important in maintaining and recruiting staff, that is not a cause for concern by the Minister for Health, and does not give rise to any consideration by the Minister for Health as to what we can do when it is so clear that this is part of the challenge? When we can see that nurses are fleeing the profession precisely on the grounds, what initiatives are the government and the Minister for Health going to take to end this development?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153542	The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153543	Yes, and I think there is reason to be concerned about the situation for many, many different reasons. But it comes down to the fact that what is worrying is our employees. This applies to all nurses here, but it applies to all staff groups in our hospital system, in our healthcare system, which has been running very, very fast for years and has had to deal with more patients, and the money has not always been followed. So now they do, but they haven't always. At the same time, the structural problems have not been resolved, and that is one of the main issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153619	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153620	In all other parts of the labour market, however, recruitment efforts are also regulated in relation to demand, which means that there is a high demand for labour, including the possibility of wage increases. These conditions are experienced by nurses, midwives, sosu assistants just not when they go to work and have the pressured pay terms. What, then, is the Minister's answer to the midwives, to the nurses, to the sosus, which we can see looking away from the profession because they can obtain a better salary elsewhere? What is the answer to them when they still go away to work and know that their efforts are required, but this cannot be reflected in their pay terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153658	But what we have to do together is first of all to recognise the problem. I think I hear that many parties do. In fact, I think that all parties recognise the problem, perhaps from different perspectives. Secondly, we must, of course, strengthen our focus on motivation, retention, creating, securing and keeping attractive jobs. One of the things that concerns me most is when we have such a big change that cultural bearers also disappear, because then it will be incredibly difficult to get a healthy and good culture to be at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153737	Thank you. The question has been answered. We'll continue with sir. Peder Hvelplund of Enhedslisten, who is to ask questions to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153745	Thank you. Will the Minister recognise a link between the pay conditions of health workers and the crisis that the health system is experiencing right now, with among other things. closed beds, far too few midwives on duty and begging text messages for midwives to take more shifts, delayed breast cancer screenings and hunching from the corona epidemic, a strike and most recently RS virus outbreaks, and will the Minister explain below whether the Minister considers it responsible not to take any further action on the salaries of health personnel before the end of 2022 when the salary structure committee has submitted its report?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027153821	Thank you for that question. There are many, many interesting and really important points on this long parliamentary issue, which is always one sentence, and therefore there are a lot of things to be done around. There are many, many key things that we can spend a long time discussing and discussing. We will also have the opportunity to do so. Here we have a little less time. And as Mr. Peder Hvelplund knows, I will not go into the issue of pay. I have to refer to this pay structure committee, which is anchored in the Ministry of Employment, i.e. a ministry other than that for which I am responsible. But all the other elements that Mr. Peder Hvelplund, are exactly the elements that I recognize, I can acknowledge and I agree with, helping to create a very, very great pressure. I've called it myself that the perfect storm could be coming. It is not because we say it is there now, but there is no indication that it should not be on its way away. Things are currently going against what we can say we warned against could happen. We'll still be gone only in October, so let's see how this winter goes. But there is no indication that it will be a very, very easy and mild winter in our hospital system. There is no doubt about that. It creates a huge need for employees to be there with their professional skills and to be able to fill their functions without going down with stress, without going down with work pressure, and for the structures around them to be arranged in a way where, yes, there is a lot of work to be done in the health care system, there is probably everywhere, but the busyness has to be one in which there is a professionalism and which makes sense and where the money comes with it. When the tasks fall down between two chairs, the chairs must come together, and it is therefore our responsibility to ensure that the structures are there, so that it is also in every way meaningful and satisfying to go to work in all parts of our hospital system.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154027	After all, this morning the government has presented a new proposal about the proximity of health care, which is very much about structure, and maintaining a structure is really important. But what makes our patients healthy is not a brick or a structure, but it is that there is a dedicated healthcare professional to fill out the frames, that is to say that there are both doctors, nurses, sosus, midwives, porters, all of whom are staff who perform an important role in having a well-functioning health service. Now we have seen here most recently in TV 2's documentary that 46.7 per cent. In the course of the last year, the medical examiners say that they have experienced situations where busyness or understaffing has contributed to the deterioration of a patient's condition, and so have we compared with nurses, where it is also 46%, that they have been exposed to a situation in the last year where hurry has led to a worsening condition for a patient, or the medical examiners even say that they have been in almost 6%. of the cases have a fear that this has actually contributed to the death of a patient. I mean, this is something that has a direct impact on both the working environment and patient safety, and that is why I just think it is not enough to say that we should now look at the structure and that we should ensure that there is an adequate framework when we can so clearly see that there is a clear link between both working conditions and pay conditions when it comes to maintaining and recruiting staff. For our health care is nothing without our dedicated staff, our buildings can't be used for anything if we can't have doctors and nurses, sosus, midwives and porters to deliver a completely invaluable effort every day, and that effort should be appreciated. What, then, is the government's answer? Is it just that we have to wait for a pay structure committee to be set up which we are not even prepared to say we are going to allocate funds to deliver? Is that the only answer, or is there also an answer from the Minister for Health, to how we should ensure the proper functioning of health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154234	However, there is far too much urgency in our health services, and ultimately our patients suffer, and this also affects our employees and our patients, and we have, together in the parties involved in making financial laws, in connection with the latest financial laws, precisely allocated billions for the health and elderly sector • 1.1 billion. kr. in 2020 and 1,4 billion. kr. In 2021, which together with economic agreements that hold hands under welfare and follow demography, helps to ensure that we have stopped the savings that were otherwise seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154313	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154314	We are doing better than previous bourgeois governments have done, and I do not think that has been difficult either. In other words, what we are doing now is, of course, providing that sufficient funds are provided with the additional tasks that are coming, but that is not a boost. After all, it is a question of maintaining the status quo, that there is still 46.7% of it. by the medical examiners and 46 per cent by the medical examiners. of the nurses, who must say that they experience that busyness has a direct consequence. This problem will not be dealt with unless we give a concrete boost to pay as well. So will the Minister for Health not recognise that it is not enough simply to maintain the status quo, but that we need to do something to ensure a better opportunity for staff retention and recruitment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154352	Yeah, and it's a little hard because I only have 30 seconds, so now I'm trying to be a little more clear. I'm sorry, maybe I was a little unclear. In the annual economic agreements we make with regions and municipalities, we ensure that there is money that comes with when there is, it may be more elderly people, more chronic patients, more children, and what it may be that pushes the costs. This government has secured this, and we will vote through it with a welfare law, and I hope for a majority in favour of it. Alongside that, we have, together with the Finance Law Parties, taken up this 1.1 billion. kr. and 1.4 billion. kr. in the Finance Laws. So it's not just the status quo, but it's kind of an extra boost beyond the boost that's driven by the demographic.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154428	Well, we have given a considerable boost both to psychiatry and to the area of the elderly in the finance laws last year and last year. But that does not change the basic problem in relation to the whole health system, that is, when we can see the figures we can see from STAR, we can hear the reports from the nurses and from the doctors about the overload there is. It is not solved unless we also go in and look at pay terms, and that is why the question is: is the answer to the sosu's and to the midwives and to the nurses who are in the health care, that they must arm themselves with patience, that they must live under these pressure conditions until a solution may be found when the pay structure committee comes with its report at the end of next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154509	No, because the answer to the • fully agreed • pressured health care is that we cannot just propose anything more of the same, and that is why we have presented a part of what will become our future health agreement proposal, and invite the parties to negotiate on it, precisely because we cannot just keep pushing more patients into a system that is not built for, is not equipped to have more cooperation, and that gives the employees frustrations. And in relation to those who are asking for a better context, that is at least a large part of our ambition... they must get it in the health agreement that we are discussing with the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154545	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Health, and thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. The question has been answered. The next question is to the Minister for Transport, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154556	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154600	Thank you. Can the Minister state whether it is possible for the State or the municipalities to compensate residents for noise pollution caused by the construction of the light rail line in the vicinity of Copenhagen, and will the Minister indicate whether the government is either willing to grant compensation or prepared to change the rules so that compensation can be paid?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154622	Thank you for the question, which has a character which means that there may be a need to elaborate some of the answers. That's why I have to offer Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that if it's needed, he's welcome to come over to me too. Maybe we can have a coffee meeting about it. As I understand it, the reason for the question is some concrete work in the municipality of Lyngby-Taarbæk. There I understand that Lyngby-Taarbæk Supply is currently carrying out a number of wiring conversions on Buddingevej. In my understanding and as I have been informed, the wiring changes of the supply company are delayed, and it is the case that, if these delays are not dealt with, this could have a negative impact on the timetable of the light rail, even if it is not the light rail works. Therefore, as I have been informed, the municipality seems to have politically approved that the supply company can carry out the wiring conversions outside normal working hours, among other things. All the way up to 2:00 a.m. 10:00 a.m. on weekdays and from 10:00 a.m. 7:00-14:00 a.m. on Saturdays. It is therefore outside what is called normal working hours. It is also the case, however, that you also have light rail project work in the municipality of Lyngby-Taarbæk, and this can help to cause some confusion, because the citizen can be difficult to see when it is wiring work and when it is light rail work. As I am informed, however, the light rail workers take place within normal working hours, i.e. on weekdays between 1 p.m. and 1 p.m. 7:00 and 6:00. The operators must be carried out before the light rail project can be started at the same location, and therefore the environmental protection law applies to these tasks and therefore it is also up to the municipality to lay down the specific rules. Within the light rail law there are some options for laying down specific rules on pollution, noise, etc., but that is not in the area of wiring workers. This also makes things a little complicated, which is why I would just like to repeat my offer that I would like to clarify this further, because there is a lot of technique in it, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154835	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154836	Thank you for that answer. The background to the question is quite true that there are a number of houses, among others. on Buddingevej in Lyngby, where the light track is going to go very, very close to the main door of the residents, and they are currently exposed to very large noise nuisances that destroy their everyday lives, their children's opportunities to sleep, their ability to concentrate, etc. Conservatives, as you know, are opposed to the easy track. We have said to the Social Democrats many times, and it is still the case that if they wish to cancel the easy track, we would very much like it. But that's not why I'm here today, because I probably don't know that's gonna happen. I guess they would have agreed to our offer a long time ago. But just to let it be said again. However, I would like to hear the Minister's opinion as to whether it is not reasonable that when the community imposes such an enormous burden on some people, the community will also help to compensate them, yes, whether the Minister simply does not think that they should have some money for the genes they are exposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027154943	And, of course, it is essential that when it comes to light rail work itself, there is an authorisation it is not activated, but there is an authorisation in the law that allows you to make a decision to compensate. All the time that most of the light rail workers take place during the day and comply with the rules, and that makes light rail workers not the wiring workers, but the light rail workers, there is a power to compensate where there are some special cases, i.e. for example. people who work at night. In fact, they are given some opportunities to sleep elsewhere in the daytime when the work is done. But it is something other than the wiring work that is allowed here at night and on weekends.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155029	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155030	I would very much like to have it clarified at that coffee meeting. I would very much like to say yes to that and thank you for that. But I just need to make sure I get it right. Does the Minister of Transport say here that there is a possibility that they can get a replacement? Now I am thinking specifically of the people who are then exposed to what is wiring work, as I understand the Minister of Transport, on the Buddingevej. Actually, I didn't know what was what in relation to the construction, and I'm not sure the residents know that either. But does the Minister say that there is an opportunity to compensate them? And if so, who can give it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155059	This is where it gets really complicated all the time that it is not within the scope of the construction law, within the special law on the light rails, all the time that it is given according to the general environmental law. Thus it is the municipality that has made the decision and therefore there is not immediately a legal basis for it to be able to do so. In any case, it would have to be examined in more detail. In fact, we also have a legislative proposal which has been dealt with at first reading, where this particular case has also been raised, and where we also have some technical clarifications about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155138	So if there is no legal basis for compensation, is the government prepared for us to make the law, that we amend the law, so that there will be a chance? It therefore seems quite unreasonable that we should be exposed to such an enormous nuisance as is at issue here, for a project which does not benefit the citizen it is going to suffer, but is something that the Community has decided to do, by the fact that there is a majority in the Folketing here who wants to carry out the easy track. In other words, is the government not prepared to change the law if there is no possibility of giving them compensation under current legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155214	The minister for his last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155215	It is here, as I said, that the complicating factor is that if light rail construction was what made it work after 1 p.m. At 18.00 and at the weekend, there was an authority to do something, but all the time that this is about the supply company and their wiring and it's the municipality that has decided to allow this noisy work outside normal working hours, there is no immediate possibility of that. However, as I have said, I would like to clarify what is possible, and that is why, as I have said, we will also have a coffee agreement as soon as possible, and I have at least noted that it is Mr Tugendhat's report. Rasmus Jarlov is interested in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155258	Thank you to the Minister for Transport and to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. The question has been answered. We now come to the last question at Question Time, and it is to the Minister for Employment, asked by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155311	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155314	Thank you, President-in-Office. What is the Minister's view of the proposals on the use of refugees and family reunification that are being discussed in several of the municipalities in Randers, for example, where unemployment for this group has been estimated at 63 per cent at the latest?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155339	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that local authorities are using useful jobs and are prepared to increase the level of activation. This is fundamentally positive, for too many refugees and immigrants from, among others. The Middle East is outside the Danish labour market, especially women. Instead, they live a life on public support where there are no real demands, and it undermines integration, it undermines Danish economy, and it is devastating for the cohesion of Danish society. That is why we must significantly increase the activation effort. Today, for example, non-western immigrants on cash benefits are on average activated 4 hours a week. It is not enough at all for those who continue to need integration, and it is for the benefit of either the individual or society. That is also why the government wants to demand 37 hours of work for citizens with an integration need, so we replace the dependency logic with a work logic. The starting point must be that the individual contributes to his or her own performance. I do not know the details of the concrete example from Randers Municipality, which is why I do not have the opportunity to comment directly on it, but there should be no doubt that our proposal for the introduction of a 37-hour work obligation must be implemented by all the municipalities in the country and also inspired by the experience of some municipalities. I am aware that several municipalities have experienced the challenges of establishing the utility effort locally, which is why it is also part of the government's initiative to give municipalities better opportunities to use the utility effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155459	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155459-2	Thank you for your answer. I believe that the main obstacle now in Randers, which has a very high level of unemployment in this group, is that the Minister's party colleagues are opposed. I have often heard the Prime Minister and also the present Minister both as Minister for Employment and, I think, as Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, how important it is for these foreigners to get to work and to use these tools of work, useful jobs and so on. But the fact is that in Randers, who is a social democratic municipality, the Danish People's Party has put forward the proposal, I think it is three times, and it has been voted down by the Minister's party colleagues. It may well be a bit surprising when you even have a government with the Prime Minister in charge that makes this a big theme. It may be that the Prime Minister has other things to do, but perhaps the Minister for Employment would give his party colleagues in Randers a call. I think that would be helpful. I understand, among other things, that Mr. Anker Boye and Mr. Henrik Leth at the Council meetings has called this proposal for useful activation a proposal that discriminates between brown and white, which is such a vulgar rhetoric that reminds us of the Social Democracy in the 1990s and certainly not the Social Democracy which both the Minister here and the Prime Minister want to give the impression that one is representing today. So can we have the Minister just spend 3 minutes of his scant time calling his party colleagues in Randers and then asking them to vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155639	Now Social Democracy is a political party, we are not Scientology, so you decide for yourself in the Social Democracy in Randers what you have of municipal politics. Right now it is up to the municipalities themselves to define this part of the employment policy, but I do not want to hide the fact that one of the reasons why the government has put forward this proposal, in which we, the state, in the legislation and here in the Parliament, demand 37-hour activation for newly arrived refugees and for people who have been here for a long time and are in the cash assistance system and have an integration need, is that we can see that the existing system is not working. I say this as Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and as Minister for Employment, and I say this as Minister for Gender Equality, because there are also some aspects of equality in women going around at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155718	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155719	I appreciate that, and I believe in the Minister. That is why the easiest thing would be if he would only make his party colleagues think the same thing as the minister himself. After all, it is a very laborious process if we are going to legislate here to get the Minister's party colleagues in Randers to do what the Minister would like to do. I am absolutely sure that our man in Randers City Council, Nick Zimmermann, who has made this proposal three times, would be extremely grateful if the Minister would just call and say: Hey, the policy of the government, the policy of the socialist one-party government, is that you are in favour of these things. Now press the right buttons.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155756	We are going but we are also a political party that respects the existence of municipal autonomy, and that means that as long as the legislation is as it is now, there is no demand for 37-hour activation. This also means that local municipal councils throughout the country can organise themselves within the framework of the legislation that is now in place. And that is why I am not going to call anyone, either party members or others, in the municipal councils and say that they should do it one way or the other. As long as they're within the law, we're happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155832	That is a little paradoxical, because yes, yes, we have municipal autonomy, and that is also very good. But the government says that a law will then be put in place that will put local self-government out of effect and thus implement it here by law. Then why not get started now? That'd be great. One might fear that this is a purely spin-number, so that the Social Democratic Party at Christiansborg says that duty to work is important and that one must provide before one can enjoy etc., but then down below the surface the Social Democracy is still away the sweet soup of cultural radicalism and socialism that we have known until very recently, and one will in fact not change anything at all. Does the Minister not think it would be good both for himself, for the government and for the party he represents to send a dozen down the ranks?
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155910	The minister with the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155911	I do not think we are going to put local self-government out of effect. After all, it is always a balance between how much we decide here and how much we decide in the city hall. On this question, when it comes to how much these people should be activated, we believe that the current system does not work. That is where we think we need to say from here in Parliament: there will have to be a full record, 37 hours as a starting point for these people. For it is some people who have just come to Denmark, and they also need to know what the ordinary Danish working culture is like. There are also some who have grown stuck on the sofa in the cash assistance system. I want them to know the same thing. So I do not think it is right to say that we are putting local self-government out of effect. But it is true that we want the Parliamentary Chamber to take a step forward and say: that is the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027155954	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Employment and to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211027160003	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 28 October 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
