ParlaMint-DK_20211118100026	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 92 (Proposal for a Law amending the Daily Offers Act. Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. L 93 (Proposal for a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Services. Minister for Employment (Mattia Tesfaye, fg.): Bill No. L 94 (Proposal for a law on the right of employers to impose on employees the display of coronapas, tests for covid-19 etc.). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100112	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 13 by Rasmus Stoklund (S), Carl Valentin (SF), Kathrine Olldag (RV) and Rosa Lund (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 58 (S, SF, RV, EL and FG), against 43 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 13 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 12 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Christoffer Aagaard Melson (V), Marcus Knuth (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Inger Støjberg (UFG) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100221	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100243	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-13, adopted by a majority, i.e. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 14, elected by a majority, the committee with the exception of new citizens? That is not the case, so it has been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100324	We need to keep in mind that it is several legislative proposals that are being dealt with together. Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and then we are ready to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100408	No amendments have been tabled to L 36. Amendments to L 37 will then be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (V), elected by a minority (KF and NB), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 31 (V, KF and NB), against 69 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, LA and FG), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. No amendments have been tabled to L 38. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100535	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100552	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. Are there any comments? It's agreed. ] We're just taking a short break so everyone can get out of the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100610	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100626	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100638	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100702	The debate is open. We go first to the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118100745	Thank you very much. The bill here is an expiry of the political agreement on the reduction of English-language higher education, which we concluded together with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives on 25 June this year. The background to this whole issue is a ruling by the European Court of Justice, which states that EU citizens with the status of migrant workers who train in Denmark are entitled to social benefits such as: Su. In order to control EU citizens' expenditure, the parties in the su-conciliation group agreed in 2013 a ceiling of 449 million for expenditure. kr. a year. In recent years Su expenditure on foreign students has risen and has long exceeded the agreed ceiling. In the coming years, expenditure is expected to increase further. We have long discussed back and forth what we can do, for on the one hand we have great pleasure from international students and the professional dynamics that arise through the exchange of knowledge and students across national borders, and Danish companies enjoy a greater recruitment basis. On the other hand, we see that too few foreign students enter employment in Denmark, not least in the programmes we are discussing today, where it is about one in five. And if we are to maintain a generous su system which allows young people, regardless of their social background, to take an education, we must have control over how many people have access to the su. Against this background, we believe that the agreement we have reached is a sensible compromise. First of all, vocational academy and professional bachelor programmes will in future only be offered in Danish as a rule. However, certain specific offers of vocational education and Bachelor's degree programmes will be exempted from the general rule, so that selected courses can be offered in English in the future. And the Minister for Education and Research will be able to accept on an ongoing basis that a vocational academy or professional bachelor's degree programme can be offered in a language other than Danish. At the same time, the Minister for Education and Research will be able to lay down rules on training elements offered in other languages. It allows the institutions to continue to conclude agreements on exchanges with educational institutions abroad. Overall, this is a sensible solution to a difficult and complicated problem, for which we are pleased that there is broad support in the Folketing. And, of course, the Social Democratic Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101014	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101020	This proposal really hurts a number of provincial towns, and there are places of supply where it will be difficult to make it happen if you are not allowed to have international students. That is why I would like to ask the Social Democrats: how many places of supply can you live with shutters as a result of this law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101039-2	We have, in fact, made economic and various other compensatory measures to ensure that more than 5% is affected, a financial contribution is actually granted, and I hope that this means, of course, that no large-scale training should be closed on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101055	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101056	But I am just trying again: how many places of supply can the Social Democracy live with shutters as a result of this law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101105	I'm not going to put a figure on that, because this is about making sure we don't send money to students who don't stay in Denmark. One might also ask: how many Su-beneficiaries from other countries who do not stay in Denmark and work, can Radicals live with come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101118	Then it's Mrs. Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101121	After all, it is very funny that this is an element in the financing of another agreement, in which the Social Democrats strongly proclaim that we really want to ensure, just like many of us, that there is education throughout the country. The problem is that when you make this agreement to close so many of our English-speaking business and professional high school courses in the country, yes, virtually everyone, you will put the small places of supply under enormous pressure, because the whole student base is that you can also draw on having English-language classes, so that you can have the teaching skills to keep the place of supply up and running. So I would actually like to ask whether the Social Democratic Party can guarantee that there are no procurement points that are going to turn around because this law has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101213	It sounds like the Radical Left doesn't understand the intention of this proposal, because it's not about making life difficult for these educations. It is about the fact that we are currently paying for a large group of people who come to Denmark and take an education and get su and then do not stay here and work. It is about one out of every five of them who come on these courses that stay in Denmark and work, and I have not heard Radicale's answer. It was, of course, a radical minister who went in and promised that it would not exceed 449 million. kr. So I could ask: what exactly are radical proposals we have to do that are better than this solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101245	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101246	I'll have to answer that when I take the platform. Then, of course, the Socialist rapporteur can ask back. I would like to know whether the Social Democrats can guarantee that this bill will not close educational establishments in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101301	In this proposal we have done what we could to ensure that education does not close down. If you lose over 5%. On its basis, there will be a financial contribution, and we have also set the money aside for it. So that's not the intention of this proposal. On the contrary, we are actually trying to move education into the country, and we are also making sure that some students will take these courses because we also dare to say that not everyone is going to the city. And that is where we are a little different from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101327	Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Olldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101329	This is an excellent presentation on the question I have. For one of the ways in which these supply points around the country have kept up has actually been to offer courses in English, and that is because there is no critical mass to apply to the Danish-language courses there are. We see that there is a decline in the rate of entry into all medium-term higher education, vocational training and so on. So that's why you've just kept up and maintained a critical mass in this way. Why does the Social Democratic Party think it is so urgent to shut education out in the province of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101404	We just disagree completely that we must maintain education in order to have foreign students who come here to take an education for a short period and then either go home or stay at the graduation rate and get a daily allowance. That's where we spend 375 million. kr. a year to pay people who come here, who have taken an education and who are on graduation allowance, and I do not understand where radicals' financial responsibility has gone. I am simply puzzled when you have had a minister who has said that this should not exceed 449 million. kr. It was a radical minister, it was Mr. Morten Østergaard, who had that responsibility, and now that you have to solve the problem, Radicals will not be involved. Then they just say that let's keep paying a lot of people to come here and take an education and then go back home. I simply do not see this as the way we have to create a robust education system. The critical mass must be ensured precisely by the fact that there are some students, including Danish students, who will take the courses in those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101456	Mrs. Kathrine On Olldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101457	I am surprised that the emphasis of the Social Democratic Party is that it is obviously more important to close education and keep Denmark closed to an international global education market than it really is to keep the province up in the field of education. It is for us to see that it is a weighting that is very wrong. Firstly, the boundaries of a global education market cannot be closed, and secondly, it is really bizarre that where we see that training places are to be closed down, they are out in the province of Denmark, where people want to get training out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101530	We have a completely different approach. After all, we believe that the programmes should be maintained with Danish students who would like to be in their local area, and that is what the Radical Left has not wanted to be in the process of resolving. You've come up with a lot of cheap words about wanting to get students into the areas, but you don't dare to use the tools that actually ensure that there can be some students for the critical mass, and you'll say that we need foreign students to fill up these programmes and then go home afterwards. Is this a financially responsible way to get around this? Then I have to say: we would like to have foreign students in Denmark. We have more than 15,000 places for foreign students, and a great many of them are at universities, because in fact they also contribute to Danish society afterwards. They stay in Denmark and they become part of the labour market. This group does not, and radicals have actually recognised this, because they had an agreement with a radical minister in the lead in 2013, and that is what we are delivering on now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101622	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118101638	Thank you. Let me start by emphasising that it cannot be misunderstood that it has never been the intention of our taxpayer-funded education system, including our excellent Su, that Denmark should lift the educational obligations of other EU countries to its own citizens. I would like to make that clear with seven-inch nails that the Left wants to hold on to that. We also want to maintain free and equal access to education, just as we want a su that enables all qualified young people to complete higher education in Denmark regardless of their family wealth. This must not be what determines whether a young person has the opportunity to pursue higher education in Denmark, and that is precisely why we are pleased that this proposal, which is under discussion here today, is in line with the 2013 compromise reached with a radical Minister of Education at the forefront. Here, a ceiling was set on how many tax dollars we want to spend on su for EU citizens, most of whom unfortunately go back to their own country after completing education in Denmark. The draft law here, as mentioned earlier by the Social Democrat rapporteur, is the follow-up to the political agreement reached by a large majority in the Danish Parliament on 25 June of this year, which is about meeting the 2013 su agreement and the ceiling that was then set for how much we would contribute to EU citizens who are migrant workers. The proposal is about closing down the possibility of offering English-language courses at professional and professional colleges, and this is the way in which we have the opportunity to comply with the 2013 agreement. As a warm supporter of European cooperation, not least freedom of movement, I would ideally have liked a different solution, but unfortunately that has not been possible. However, I still hope that the Minister and the good people of the Minister will work hard to find other solutions so that we will have the opportunity to have more English-language education than is proposed here, so that we will ensure that Danish young people also have English-language education skills and thus also the opportunity to become involved in a globalised world. So I must stress that this is certainly not the ideal solution with the glasses of the Left, but we support it because it is important for us to live up to the su agreement of 2013. So to the proposal itself and the agreement we reached back in June: it was important for the Left to focus on what is the greatest demand for skilled labour, and that is why we have maintained in the order of 650 places of study, which we have targeted both for geographical reasons, but where indeed we have also taken into account where the demand for labour is highest, that is, where there is low unemployment, and we only think it is reasonable that we have tried to take account of precisely these elements. So, with these comments, I would like to say that the Left supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102041	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102046	Thank you for that and, in fact, thank you for the statement by the Left rapporteur that this is probably not the most ideal solution. That is why I would also like to ask about the development we have seen in the number of English-speaking students. It has been increasing and has been so for a very, very many years. If we continue to see that there is an increase and that the cost of migrant workers who are given su continues to rise in our universities, what is the Left intending to do? Should we set a ceiling on our university educations again, and should we cut even more on some of the courses that have otherwise been taken off until now, because there is precisely a special demand for them from our companies and our business community?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102144	What is absolutely crucial for us is that the young people who come to Denmark and take a higher education course with su, also subsequently stay in Denmark and use that education. When we looked at the figures, it turned out fortunately for the universities, it must be said that far more university students choose to stay in Denmark and thus use the education in Denmark in contrast to for example. students in the professional and academy programmes. That is why we agreed with the government that our focus should be on the two categories of education and not on universities. In the agreement we reached this summer, which I regret that Mrs Katrine Robsøe and the Radical Left did not want to be a part of for various reasons, there is a creep that says that we must keep close dialogue or the minister must keep close dialogue with the universities, so that the universities of course live up to the agreement reached by a broad majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102247	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102249	But I just need to understand if the Left wants to look at other options. Would you like to change the terms of the su-conciliation and the agreement that is there, if you could agree on that, if you could actually increase the retention? If you could now increase employment among English-speaking students, you would rather look at having slightly higher costs in su, or you would rather lay down training places in e.g. the training courses which have been taken off here or at the universities?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102321	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe and the Radical Left had the chance to enter into a dialogue on changes to our Su system back in 2016, when the narrow Left Government, incidentally with the undersigned in the lead, presented a change of direction. Some would call it a reform, we called it a change of our Su system precisely in order to embrace this issue, because our Su system is set up in such a way that the majority is really grants; one can receive the grants and travel home without any refund claims and without any requirement for the training to be used in Denmark. Unfortunately, however, the option of opting out of the Radical Left was not included in the dialogue on it with the then government. However, I have no doubt that we might not have exactly solved the challenge here, but we could at least have addressed the issue in a more appropriate way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102420	Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Olldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102422	Thank you. And thank you for your speech, and also thank you for the reservation from the Left. But it may be so surprising that the Left has nevertheless agreed to this agreement. An example of something that I think must fight for a good Jutland's Left Heart is, of course, among other things. the fact that VIA in Jutland, i.e. the vocational school, has to cut on its English-language courses. There's one of them. a number of English-speaking courses at the old TEKO in Herning, which are in danger. What the government then plays in counter-playing to it is that Herning will then be able to get a social worker's education instead. This means that you exchange a highly specialised design programme, which educates both Danish and foreign students for an international, global design and textile market, with a Danish-language social worker training programme. I'm just thinking, how the hell do you apologize, how does that harmonize with the conclusion of the Left in this deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102525	I just need to correct a misunderstanding. There is no reservation on the part of the Left about the bill. This is the way in which we can help to live up to the conciliation which the questioner's minister reached with a broad majority in the Folketing back in 2013. We are, in fact, concerned to ensure that the agreements that are concluded, the settlements that we are part of, are also complied with. But I understand that the Radical Left doesn't care about that. So on the question of TEKO in Herning and a specialized design training: it is precisely one of the training courses that we stressed in the negotiations should not be closed because it has some peculiar characteristics and is targeted at a very specific labour market. So it is simply wrong when the rapporteur claims here that we have exchanged a specialised design education in English for a Danish-language social worker training programme. We have the TEKO training and we have the prospect of receiving the social worker training in Herning, because this agreement is linked to the second agreement, which unfortunately also failed to form part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102637	Mrs. Kathrine On Olldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102639	The Radical Left is not indifferent to this problem, and we want it to be resolved. We just don't think this deal is the right one. I'm glad to hear that TEKO in Herning is protected. But it doesn't just solve the problem that we have a large number of places of supply, especially in Jutland and, incidentally, also in Zealand down in Vordingborg, where I live, which is in danger of decimating their place of supply, because they have to close their English-language courses. So how does the rapporteur see this problem with the fact that there are some major training centres which need to be cut back and which are thus in danger of closing down in general because the critical mass is simply being undermined?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102719	I started my rapporteur's speech by emphasising that it has never been the intention of our education system and our Su system that we should lift the educational obligation of other EU countries to their own citizens. It never will be. And it's also in that light that this bill needs to be seen. Then it's about education across the country. There we have been very concerned about ensuring that we create a Denmark in better education balance, but it is therefore an unhealthy way of maintaining a supply of education that we train the citizens of other EU countries for Danish tax dollars. That will never be the purpose of the Left for our education sector. On the contrary, with the second part of the agreement, which is not under discussion here, we have created better framework conditions for establishing and establishing study places outside the large cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102811	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118102826	This bill is an expiry of the EU rules on the rights of citizens of the EU, which are defined as migrant workers; rules which mean that if you come up here and take a job just a few hours a week, you get a number of rights, including the right to apply for an education paid by the Danish taxpayers, the right to be paid by Danish taxpayers. Some would say that this right also applies to the other way. If Danish young people went to Romania, they would also have the right to apply to education there. Now there are just not exactly the same su-opportunities in Romania as there are in Denmark, which is why it will of course be much more attractive for young people in Romania and other EU countries to travel to Denmark and get an education than it is for Danish young people to travel the other way. A judgment was handed down at the European Court of Justice in 2012. On the basis of this demand and we received a point on this from the Danish People's Party in the agreement reached by the then radical Minister of Education in 2013. The agreement reads as follows: "Parties note that the verdict entails additional costs for the SU and note that the Government will incorporate the current estimate of 200 million. kr. after tax and backflow on the future financial laws. The parties agree to follow developments, and the Ministry of Research, Innovation and Higher Education will present an annual progress report on the number of EU and EEA citizens receiving the SU by virtue of the status of workers, and the costs thereof, and the Minister will meet the conciliation circle accordingly. Where developments differ significantly from those envisaged, the parties undertake, within the conciliation circle, to secure funding in the field of the SU and to implement appropriate safeguards initiatives. In this context, Denmark will work actively in any relevant European context to promote the conditions for maintaining the current Danish SU system. Ultimately, the parties commit themselves, if necessary, to reshaping the SU system. ▪ In the Danish People's Party, we most certainly saw that EU rules were changed so that we could decide for ourselves who we would invite here to study, as we did before 2012. But changing governments have not had much success in influencing EU rules. I may at times have my doubts as to how persistently the successive ministers in this area have actually worked to achieve this point of the agreement. In the Danish People's Party we do not want to redesign the Su system, nor do we want to put the su down for the Danish students to finance su for young people from the EU, and that is why we end up in defence initiatives. Then we are at the stage of the legislative proposal that we have before us today, because that is precisely what the law is, a defence initiative that must limit the number of EU students and thus limit the amount of tax money that we spend on su for EU students. The proposal means that in future courses at professional colleges and professional academies are generally only offered in Danish. In the Danish People's Party we would have liked to have seen that we could have spread the rule to all bachelor's and university educations, but now we are taking the first step. At the same time, we adjust the rules so that we can have special cases of individual elements in a language other than Danish in the future in the Danish language programmes at professional academies and colleges. It could be because you had a particularly talented guest teacher from another country, and it could be to have exchange students who came here, while Danish students went on exchange out in the world. We should not close ourselves to the world; we should just make sure that we spend our taxpayers' money properly. In addition to the fact that we have to do something because of the too much money it costs to foreign students in su, we also believe in the Danish People's Party that it is extremely important that we care about the Danish language; that we maintain the Danish language as an active language in all scientific areas; and that there can also be taught in Danish in all degree programmes. If we leave it all to English, we end up with a poorer Danish • we have to fight against it. It is important that we make an active effort to maintain Danish as a living language in all areas. In the Danish People's Party we naturally support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103229	Thank you. And there are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We can move on to the SF rapporteur and that is Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103242	Thank you. Let me begin by saying that we in the SF are part of the su-conciliation circle, and that is why we naturally support this bill. We are seeing more and more students from EU countries going to Denmark to train and to take advantage of the opportunity to get su. And I understand that many would like that. We have a very good education system in Denmark, and our su ensures that everyone has the opportunity to train. It is unique; we must be proud of it, and of course we must preserve it. In 2013 we agreed in the su-conciliation circle that we set a ceiling on how much we want to spend on su-costs for English-language students from other EU countries. And, of course, we in the SF want to live up to that agreement. But with that said, I would like to stress that this has not been an easy decision for us in the SF. We think it is absolutely crucial that we in Denmark can share knowledge with the rest of the European Union, and I think it is very good and important that we can exchange students with each other. We must, of course, be able to preserve that in the future. I would have liked us to have found another solution in cooperation with the European Union, and I also know that the Ministry has investigated this. Because we are very fond of English-speaking students, and we know that those who stay in the country and get to work generally make a huge profit and are a gift to Danish society. That is why it has been really important to me that the courses which succeed in training their students for employment should actually be exempted from this agreement. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to find another solution in cooperation with the European Union. And that is why I also believe that this is the best solution to our 2013 agreement, as it is at professional colleges and professional academies that are absolutely the most that do not get to work afterwards or go home after finishing education. So SF backs this proposal because we are part of the su-conciliation circle and have a responsibility to back it up and back up the ceiling we have agreed together and of course because we can in no way accept general cuts on su to Danish students, which would have been the alternative if we did not find another solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103456	Thank you. And there is a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103500	Both in this agreement, which is part of the bill, there is the closure of training places, and in another agreement, which has been signed by the SF, training places are closed down, up to 10%. of all the seats in Copenhagen, Aarhus, Odense and Aalborg. It is going to increase the pressure of character on all the young people who dream of taking an education. And I do not understand how SF can tour around and talk about ensuring that there is less pressure of character on young people when, at the same time, their training opportunities are closed. So I really want to know how SF can defend contributing to increasing the pressure on character.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103554	I think I would like to start by stressing that what has been important for SF in terms of getting more education throughout the country is that there is an opportunity for Danish students to go there. Although we do not think this is the best solution, it is English-speaking students who have maintained the offers we have had in the country. Now we are actually getting some tenders where it will be Danish students, with the second agreement we have made. In relation to the pressure of character, which is something we are very concerned about in the SF and which we take very seriously, it is the case that there is already very great pressure of character, and we need to solve this by creating a new recording system, where we do not have to have an average of over 12 on our youth education to get in. I would just like to say that this is also about young people who may not be so mobile being able to train in the rest of the country if we look at the second agreement to which the rapporteur refers. And we do not think it is good to close down training places, but we think it is good that there is an opportunity to train elsewhere in the country, and that is what will be possible with this agreement, and that is good for young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103658	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103659	At any rate, I note that the SF is helping to close thousands of training places. I would really like to hear: does the rapporteur recognise that increasing the pressure on young people will contribute to the closure of thousands of training places by the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103718	I can hear that the rapporteur keeps saying that we are closing them. But the fact is that what we have proposed in that agreement is that education should be elsewhere in the country. That is what I hope the universities will do, and we are not finished with the agreement yet and will meet here during the winter and see the final result. And we must keep an eye on the pressure of character; it is extremely important. But we should, whether this deal was made or not. We need a new recording system and we need to take the pressure of the students very seriously. We need fewer grades in youth education and in primary school, because the pressure on character has started far too soon, but it has nothing to do with this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103754	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118103817	Thank you for the floor. We have here a bill that needs to be seen in the context in which it has been created. It is a draft law that creates some of the funding for an absurdly underfunded agreement... an agreement that for many years to come will have fatal consequences for our business community, our young people and our entire country. It is also an agreement that proves that the story that the number of training places is a zero-sum game, won over knowledge, young people's opportunities and our common sense. I know that the vast majority of you see educational places and students as numbers on a piece of paper as something that can just be moved around at your will, as something you can just shut down in thousands. But it's not just numbers on a piece of paper. Every place is a young person filled with dreams, ambitions and courage for the future, a young person who gets his dreams ruined, only because those dreams lead to one of the country's four largest cities, only because you have decided to open up to 10%. of their training places. And spare me the fact that they can just move the places, because you know that's not true; you haven't found the money for it, and you haven't taken into account our research environments, study environments and young people's own wishes. I can't express how disappointed I am. Your failure of youth and our future is insane. It may be that you have a broad deal that you can hide behind, but that doesn't make the deal any better. It only makes the failure greater. We have a generation of young people who are filled with dreams for their future, plenty of industriousness and believe that they can, of course, make a difference to our society and our world. But you're making it harder for them now. Although several parties at the last parliamentary elections toured with the message that the pressure of character on young people should be relieved, you are now making the pressure greater. With fewer educations, the pressure on character increases. It's the wrong way to go. Why SF and Enhedslisten have agreed to the Social Democratic plan to increase the pressure on young people is incomprehensible. You'll fail when you increase the pressure of character. At the same time, we are facing a huge problem in Denmark right now in relation to our economy. We lack smart and talented hands and heads, and both this bill specifically and the overall agreement is a huge problem for our companies and thus for our entire society. You're making it harder for our companies to get the employees they want. This bill is, of course, a basis for the relocation agreement, which should be called the savings, relocation and closure agreement, if the parties to the agreement would pull themselves together and stand by their agreement and call a spade a spade. While placing new tasks on our educational institutions, you only find money within the education system itself, and the tasks you impose on them are far more expensive than the money that is put off. After years of having had savings, I thought that we were going to have another way to build our education, which is one of the most important building blocks in our society, stronger, but your agreement weakens education, thus weakening the foundations of our society. Our young people deserve better, and you let them down. You can't run away from the fact that you put a gun on the forehead of our degree programmes. We were warned, and you have chosen not to listen and choose to rush through an agreement. You have deliberately made an agreement that increases the pressure of character on young people, who make it harder for our companies to have the employees in demand and who impair our education. You have deliberately chosen to cut the number of training opportunities. There was nothing to prevent us from setting up bold new courses outside the big cities, creating a regional taximeter and increasing the regional basic grant. We could have done that together, but you chose to open up to 10%. of the training places in the four largest cities. You chose not to find proper funding. You chose to abandon the young. My education heart is bleeding, and I promise you, I will fight for our educations and the young people with everything I have. The Radical Left cannot, of course, support this bill, as we believe that we could have found far better solutions to the challenges of the Su-Create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104324	Thank you. I just want to remind you that there is no direct indictment. So remember that, I'll tell everyone. Then there are a number of brief comments and the first is to Mrs Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104336	Thank you. The rapporteur concluded by talking about the legislative proposal we are debating today, i.e. what is an end to the agreement we have in the Council of Europe on a ceiling for migrant workers. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur how it can be that we are not in it. So, you're in the su-conciliation circle, and the alternative to not doing anything is, of course, that we should save on the su-su for the Danish students. What is the solution, according to the Radical Left, and how can it be that one cannot be part of this agreement when one is in the su-conciliation circle and is usually a party that wants to take responsibility for the agreements we have made together?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104420	Well, we weren't in the same way as the SF wasn't adopting the ceiling for international students, which has also been general. So it's basically very simple, because the SF has done the same thing in the past. For me, there are far better opportunities by looking at how we make sure to get much more internship in Denmark and strengthen our Danish education programmes. These are some of the measures which the educational institutions themselves have taken in order to actually solve some of these challenges. Because it is a challenge that far too few English-speaking students, migrant workers, stay in the country after completing education. We have to do much better than that. I've got one of them. I believe that a flexible employment key should be created so that the number of English-speaking places could actually be increased in places where you have really good employment and, at the same time, cut back where you have not succeeded, so that there really was an incentive for our educational institutions, young people and our business community to succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104520	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104522	As the rapporteur also knows very well, the key which I think was a very good idea was simply not enough to meet the ceiling we agreed together. I would like to ask the rapporteur something, because the Radical Left is very keen to be an educational party, but will not help the country to follow the wage trend: will it help to lower the rate for Danish students so that we can continue to give international students su?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104544	No, we have answered very clearly, even when what it is called the workers' business think tank comes up with proposals to cut the sugar, that we will not be involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104557	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104600	Thank you. There are just some things that are said from the platform, about which I think you as a seer will think: either it is being lied or it is because you haven't gotten into things. That is why I think that we all have an interest in this being resolved. Can the rapporteur tell us what it would be like with the study places if this agreement were not reached? Would there be more study places, or would there be fewer study places if we look forward to 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104628	If English-language courses are not closed, there will of course be more training places.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104640	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104643	In his speech, the rapporteur said that with the agreement on the relocation of education, there will be fewer places for study. The rapporteur knows very well that there are smaller generations of young people, and this will mean that there will be fewer places for study. With the agreement actually made on the relocation of training places, there will be more study places than there would otherwise be. So I just thought it was important to clarify it. The other thing is about this regional meter thing. In the Enhedslisten, we agree that this should be increased, and that also applies to the establishment tax. That is some of what we are trying to find funding for. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur will also confirm that there is a regional taximeter and that it has actually been increased by this agreement. Because in the speech you could get the impression of something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104723	I said very clearly in my speech that this was precisely one of the things we would like to be involved in, along with that on the establishment costs and the increased basic grants for regional measures. We would like to be involved in this, and we could have done so together. I said that verbatim because it is part of what we could have been involved in the second training agreement. I would just like to say that we have some smaller adolescences, but in the Radical Left there is a clear ambition that we should have far more young people on the training car, and with your agreement you have an expectation that we will not get any more, and I really think that is a shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104758	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104800	Thank you. Thank you for a long speech, which was, of course, about the agreement we reached before the summer recess, but not much about the specific proposal we are dealing with right now. What I have to ask the radical rapporteur is about the agreement that I actually helped to negotiate with the rapporteur's party colleague Morten Østergaard as a minister back in 2012, when we very, very specifically established that there is a framework for how much we can accept being spent on su for migrant workers. That frame's crossed. And according to the agreement, we need to find a solution to how we comply with that framework. Does the Radical Left recognize that agreement exists and does the Radical Left recognise that they are actually part of the agreement themselves, and does the Radical Left also recognise that a solution must be found? And if the solution we have here is not good enough, what is the solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104854	In fact, I think I replied when Mrs Astrid Carøe asked about it, namely that we have just offered a different solution to how to do this, which took much better account of how our business community and our educational institutions can work together to make sure that this is knitted together. I think that makes much better sense. If you have a flexible key that can actually provide incentives to increase employment, then I think that is the way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104924	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104926	But since the agreement here is that there is actually a framework, a ceiling on how much we want to spend on this matter, we have agreed jointly at that time how will the Radical Left's proposal make that framework respected? One thing is that you can have all sorts of other ideas that we have to do something else, and business would like us to do something, etc., but we actually have an agreement that has not been terminated. So how will the Radical Left's proposal actually comply with that framework? And I'm sorry, but my voice has been gone since there were municipal elections here the other day, but I'm doing it as best I can.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118104958	Yeah, it's hard with local elections. But I cannot actually understand why it is so difficult to understand how you can easily add an amount in relation to a flexible key, so that you actually make sure you keep to the agreement that is there. I think that would make a great deal of sense. Because, of course, we recognise that there is that agreement, but we just have some other solutions for it, and I simply think that what has been done here is too inflexible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105022	Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105024	Thank you. I mean, it's a real svada we're all supposed to put our ears and backs to. These were also harsh accusations, and I could hardly really recognize the Radical Left, with which I usually cooperate quite well here in the Danish Parliament. However, I should just like to assure you that accusations against the rest of us were not held back, and that actually leads me to say that if it were the case that the rapporteur had been at the exam and I had been a censor, I would probably have come to the conclusion that we had only partially passed because what the rapporteur chose to focus on was quite a different agreement from what is being negotiated here in the Folketing. What is under discussion here in the Danish Parliament is, just as has been said by other authors, the situation in which we have ended up, because the rapporteur's party colleague Mr. Morten Østergaard back in 2013 made a su-conciliation with a ceiling on how much money we would spend on migrant workers. I cannot yet quite hear what the Radical Left has in response to how the Radical Left will live up to the agreement that it itself helped to conclude back in 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105137	I understand if the other parties in this Chamber really thought it was nicer if we were not to talk about the closure agreement of up to 10%. of our educational institutions in the big cities. I can really understand that if you do not want to talk about it, but it is now part of the funding that you have this bill, and that is why I will at least allow myself to strike a blow for all the young people who are going to be affected by it here, and all the other parties that are included in this agreement must simply be able to answer for the agreement that has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105215	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105217	Then I will have to repeat what I emphasised from the platform when I made my rapporteur's speech, and that is that we in the Left do not believe that it is the responsibility of Danish taxpayers to fund the education obligation of other EU countries to their own citizens. Is that a view that Mrs Katrine Robsøe agrees with?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105240	Yes, I agree. In fact, that is also why I am very pleased that today, with the maintenance of employment, which I believe we really need to do something to increase, we have a plus in that the international students who come to Denmark give a plus in the Treasury. I think that's really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105300	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105302	In the programmes we are talking about today, only one in five stays in Denmark and gets a job. Where is the border of the Radical Left? How many of these people have to stay and take a job in Denmark before the Radical Left thinks it is right to spend the Danish taxpayers' money on?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105320	Well, I'd just like to repeat that we just have to remember that it actually gives a plus in the Treasury already at this point. Already today with the far too high degree of exit there is, and as I can only agree with the rest of you that there is, it gives a plus in the treasury. I just think that's worth remembering when we talk about funding them. Yeah, they give us a plus.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105348	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105350	We're gonna have to check that out. I do not see how it is that one in five of these courses stays in Denmark, gives a plus in the Treasury, but we must then go back and check that; that is not immediately the information I have. However, I would like to return to the question that several of my colleagues have not been able to answer. Radical Left was in the lead when we made this agreement that it shouldn't exceed 449 million. kr. It was a radical minister who went in and said that this was so crucial that if we did not get there, we would have to make protective measures. Then a flexible key has been mentioned, which the rapporteur, who has been sitting in those negotiations, well knows is not enough to meet your own party's objectives. What are the additional proposals of the Radical Left in order to meet the objective that their minister was negotiating: that this should finally not exceed 449 million? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105434	Yeah, I'm sorry, it depends on how exactly you turn this key together. And because once you've looked at it just a little bit in the ministry and we've got a paper from the really good people, I'd also say, sitting over there, that it couldn't be done just as quickly, then it was easier.I understand that making a law that just makes sure that you can't have any English-speaking professional and professional educations except a few exceptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105459	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105507	Thank you for the floor. In the Enhedslisten, we are not in the agreement behind this bill, which was concluded in the Su-conciliation Group on 25 June. The Enhedslisten isn't even in the su-conciliation circle. We would like the su to be 1,000 kroner. higher, and that you actually had the opportunity to have financial security as a student, and much more. So it is a little away from the su-conciliation circle, which has now been hollowing out the su. It also means that we have not been involved in negotiating this agreement, we have to negotiate now, and there are some things we would do differently if we could. The fact is that the su-conciliation circle, regardless of how we deal with it, although I think it is some good input we have, has already decided to save on su for foreign students. Nevertheless, I hope that some of the amendments may be part of what the conciliation circle wants to incorporate. We'll see about that. In fact, I think that this is an important discussion which deserves to be developed and nuanced, in other words how we deal with migrant workers and how we deal with international students. In relation to this specific agreement, we fear that it hits some educational institutions hard and that there is a risk of pressure on the professional and social environments of education and also the international perspective and outlook. There are also some challenges we see that we believe should be addressed. According to the agreement, students should not be placed at a disadvantage. We think this is a very good thing, but as Danish University Colleges and Danish Business Academys say in their hearing answer, there may be some current students who risk being cut off from completing their degree programme at professional bachelor level. We would like to look at this further, because even if you do not have a right to one person directly, it may be that we can find an opportunity for them to complete the bachelor level. Then we also share the opinion expressed by several other interested parties. They stress that it is important to have an international view and English skills in other ways, now that the number of international students is decreasing. Is there anything we can do to support it? I hope we can agree on that. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister, and I can do so in writing afterwards, whether he intends to ensure good opportunities for exchange, as requested in the hearings, and whether the Minister may even be able to reveal how he plans to do so. Having said that, there are also things that have made it not new that we in the Enhedslisten are problematizing it with the English-language courses. So when you're a student like this, there's a requirement that you have to work at least 10 hours a week next door. I myself, when I was an organizer for HK Handel, have spoken to a great many international students, and so it is not enough that is being done today to dress them properly in terms of the society that they meet. So sometimes it's directly the Wild West. And I am sorry that there are people who use their power as employers to just run completely overdoing young people who do not know the Danish labour market at all. They actually do social dumping. In fact, I would like to see us, as we have just done with the Working Holiday scheme, and the positive list for skilled workers, ensuring that they also receive a right material here, so that we know that we have the right to be a member of a trade union; we have the right to our own home; we have the right to a contract of employment, etc., so that we are a little better dressed when we come here. We have also pointed out in the past that funds should be set aside for such information campaigns here or for any organizational work that the relevant trade unions could do, but there has been no support for this. And some of the argument has been that we have now set aside an historically high amount of money for the fight against social dumping. Unfortunately, however, it does not match up with the growing work that has been done in all the cases that are piled up and all the problems that unfortunately are with employers who exploit foreign nationals. But if we could look at whether we could make some demands on employers, give students some more rights instead of cutting so drastically on the possibility of studying and reading in Denmark, then we would like to look at it. So I will come up with some amendments and then I hope that there will be support and a majority for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105942	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118105944	Yes, because although Enhedslisten is not a member of the Su-Conciliation Group, one helps to spend some of the money that is found here in another agreement. That agreement says, among other things, that up to 10%. This means that the vast majority will probably have to close because there is not enough funding to make any meaningful progress on these courses. I think so, and I think it is reasonable to think that this will lead to an increase in the pressure of character on young people. How does Enhedslisten's rapporteur feel about being part of an agreement that increases the pressure on character?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110030	In fact, the agreement does not say what the rapporteur said. I would just like to correct that so that we do not say anything from here that is wrong. If you have to look at it in terms of character race: if we didn't do something, if we didn't make this deal, there would be fewer study places. With this deal, there's gonna be more study places. Ergo doesn't work the character race argument. In addition, I think that even if the argument worked, I think it would be symptom treatment. There are a lot of things we can do, all the way down from elementary school, to do something about the character race. I also think the subject is so important that it simply requires that we do not make it sound as if it is something that can be arranged with a fingertips. Some of this must be looked at in relation to a new admission system, but the rapporteur and I know that it is not only that that can solve it. There's more to it than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110123	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110125	However, I fully agree that it is by no means possible to solve it simply by not removing study places. However, when you other parties now choose to close training places in the four largest cities, training places to which young people would like to enter, then the pressure of character increases. Could it not be argued that it is a little strange that that part is so willing to increase the pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110156	Thank you. Keep in mind that there is no direct indictment. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110200	Well, that premise is still based on a wrong basis, which should be that there will be fewer study places than would otherwise be available. Having said that, I also have some doubts: do you have to understand what the Radical Left is saying here, as if you want to have an over-academy? I think it is important that we secure some really good places in universities and that we have some absolutely amazing academic environments. But is what we need to understand is that with falling juveniles, there must be massively more places in universities compared to the welfare professional education that we need, or vocational training or the other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110238	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. It's Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110300	Thank you for that, President. As previous rapporteurs have mentioned, this bill stems from an agreement we made in June of this year, and which the Conservative People's Party is part of, where we reduce the English-language courses in the professional academies and the professional bachelor programmes by 650 seats. We are doing this on the basis of an EU judgment on the right of migrant workers to receive asylum in Denmark. These are courses where 72 per cent go. English-speaking students, where only 21 per cent. of them find a job afterwards. As other rapporteurs have mentioned before, we are obliged to keep the expenditure at the agreed level of 449 million. kr. The Conservative People's Party supports this and we support this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110357	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110407	This bill aims to reduce Su expenditure on foreign students by reducing access to English-language courses. In new citizens, we believe that we should completely abolish asylum for foreigners, but since this is a step in the right direction, we can support it. In view of the fact that expenditure is expected to increase further in the coming years, 576 million were expected. kr. In 2025, a reduction in admission to these specific courses, which is the subject of this bill, is perfectly appropriate. The fact is that in the English-language vocational and professional bachelor training courses there are a very large number of foreigners, 72 per cent. This is because, in 2013, the EU issued a judgment granting all EU citizens the right to su and su loans in Denmark if they worked at least 10-12 hours a week because they had to be regarded as migrant workers. As a consequence, many Eastern European young people come to Denmark and register for a Danish education and work at least 12 hours a week to receive su. In any case, studies conclude that only a third of EU students receive a plus on the economic bottom line for Denmark. This is totally unacceptable and untenable. Foreigners should not have the opportunity to come to Denmark and suck money out of the Treasury without being of use to Denmark. So that's why New Citizens can support Bill L 59.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110542	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance or from the Free Greens, nor anyone from the Christian Democrats, and that is why we are giving the floor to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118110609	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speeches and for the debate, and for some good comments which generally support the draft law. I am pleased that there is broad agreement that we need to have control over the Su spending on migrant workers from EU and EEA countries. That is why I am also pleased that there is broad support for this draft law on the reduction of English-language higher education. It is true, as has been said in the debate, that the money that will then be saved there will also be used to finance the really important and good agreement on more and better educational opportunities throughout Denmark. But that is not what is actually the subject of today's discussion. That is the bill we have before us. The government welcomes the fact that students still need to be able to exchange during their education. That is one of the things that has been up and we will continue to work for it. It is also part of the draft law and the way in which courses are organised with English-language elements. I would also like to point out that in future there will still be approx. 15,000 study places in English-language higher education in Denmark every year. And 50 million has been set aside. kr. From 2025 on a yearly basis to improve the employment of graduates from the remaining English-language courses just to touch on some of the points that have been discussed. The bill, which we have debated today, has a long history. It has emerged from the debate that we even have some people here who helped to conclude the agreement, among others. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that back in 2013 it was agreed to follow the development of Su-expenditure on migrant workers. This happened in the wake of the so-called LN judgment of the European Court of Justice, where it was found that migrant workers are entitled to social benefits in the other Member States, including training aid. A number of attempts have been made to control expenditure on migrant workers, but expenditure has continued to increase and is expected to increase further to some 570 million. kr. in 2025 and it is well above that level of 449 million. kr., which was agreed in the su-conciliation circle back in 2013. That is why it is a bottom-up task to bring expenditure under control. In English-language vocational education and Bachelor's degree programmes there are many students from EU and EEA countries, but far too few of them subsequently enter employment. In fact, it is on average only a good fifth that comes into work in Denmark and thus contributes on the Danish labour market and with Danish tax payments after they have got su to take an education in Denmark. And it has never been the intention that the Danish education system and Danishsu should finance training courses for migrant workers from EU and EEA countries if the students subsequently return home or register for unemployment in Denmark and therefore in many cases will receive daily allowances as the situation is today. And it is not a good business for Denmark to train the citizens of other EU countries for unemployment or pay daily allowances to them in Denmark. Against this background, a broad agreement was reached on 25 June 2021 on the reduction of English-language higher education, and this is the agreement on which this bill follows up, which means that vocational academies and professional bachelor courses as a general rule must be offered in Danish in the future. The current English-language tender must therefore either be closed or converted into Danish. There has been an opportunity to grant practical exemption to 19 courses, as is also shown in the annex to the bill, which was found in the agreement this summer, because they either succeed in training English-language students for employment in Denmark, have a unique character or regional significance, and they can therefore continue to be offered in English; in other words, those places where there is actually a clearer employment of students or where it has a particular regional significance. There are, for example, exemptions from education in Sønderborg and Kalundborg, which have also been mentioned Herning, Horsens and elsewhere where it will be very difficult to maintain the courses in Danish, just as the students are in demand by companies and the unemployment is therefore lower than the general picture which has been mentioned. It is a question, for example, of: engineering programmes, but also others. The draft law allows the Minister of Education and Research to exempt other courses from the requirement that the courses be offered in Danish. Finally, the draft law can lay down rules to support the possibility for the institutions to conclude agreements on exchanges with foreign educational institutions, which I also touched on a little earlier in my collection here. Thus it is also supported that students can continue to participate in exchange as part of their education. But all in all, it is a bill here that follows on from a very broad agreement reached this summer, which I believe is a responsible way of dealing with taxpayers' money in Denmark, and in which we therefore live up to what we have previously agreed with each other, that there is a certain level of expenditure for foreign recipients that we will accept. And to the amount that has been talked about can therefore be added the allowances which are in many cases paid to migrant workers who are not in employment in Denmark, also after the persons concerned have completed training courses and received su in Denmark with Danish payment. That's what we're gonna get cut to here. We are freed from education which is essential to the business community in various parts of the country, but have thus ensured that we get these costs under control. I am pleased that there is still so much support for the draft law and I look forward to the further examination of it and that we will hopefully be able to implement it according to the plan that will be outlined.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111214	Thank you. There are brief comments and the first is from Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111218	Thank you. I assume that the Minister has looked a little more closely at the consequences of this bill after I also left the negotiating room. That is why I would like to know how many educational institutions the Ministry considers might be in danger of simply not being able to maintain its educational provision with the implementation of this bill. In connection with other questions we have mentioned a little earlier that there are simply some places where the teaching capacity is kept up by having an English-language team, and where you cannot just convert it into Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111300	I don't have a number on that. I would say that we are not supposed to maintain English-language invitations to tender and train other countries' citizens in many cases for unemployment, for the reason that there must be a certain volume at certain educational establishments. It has to be there because there are actually Danish students • Perhaps in conjunction with some of those who are exempted in the agreement here • who make there is the volume. And the whole point of the agreement that the Radical Left chose not to enter into is precisely to be able to maintain and also, in many cases, to offer more and better training opportunities outside the major cities. It will be beneficial for them to be able to maintain educational establishments outside the major cities. So perhaps I think that care for these educational establishments is a little false, because in some cases they would in fact be in danger if an agreement such as the one that has been concluded and which the Radical Left therefore disagrees with was not reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111404	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111406	Once again, the government is busy putting up false contradictions, as if it could not make a regional taximeter and an increased basic grant without also closing education in the cities. But when I ask about the other thing here, it is because we have some educational institutions in more sparsely populated areas that are deeply dependent on, for example, that one. can provide two teams in an education where the teaching takes place in English in one case, so that you have the ability to teach. Can the Minister guarantee that there are no educational institutions that will simply close down, with which a great many Danish students will also be harmed, because they are deprived of the opportunity to have enough teaching capacity as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111446	In other words, the courses will have to be offered in Danish in the future. There may be English-language elements, and that is also something that needs to be done so that we can continue to make exchange agreements. But it must be the case that the volume needed to run the educational institutions does not depend on the fact that we pay su to foreign students who, in about four fifths of cases, do not get to work in Denmark afterwards. It is simply not really screwed up, and it is not a responsible way to deal with tax dollars in Denmark. And that is why an agreement has been made to restrict them, and we are complying with this bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111527	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111529	Thank you. After all, I welcome the fact that the Minister has taken the opportunity to go back into the su agreement from 2013, and that is why I really would like to ask the Minister one of the elements that resulted from the 2012 EU judgment. The agreement states: In this context, Denmark will work actively in any relevant European context to promote the conditions for maintaining the current Danish Su system. After all, the Minister has not been in the post for so long, so I do not know how much has happened, but I would really like to clarify what the Minister thinks the government and the minister will do to solve this task, which is, of course, waiting to be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111612	This is not something that I myself have yet had the opportunity to enter into discussions in a European context, but it is a well-known Danish position. It has been argued that it is therefore problematic for a system such as the Danish one that there is this judgment with the consequences it has. It is about giving Denmark an opportunity to address it in a way that means that we do not end up in the situation in which we have now ended up and in which we take some steps to avoid staying. I am informed that this work has indeed taken place, and there has been that debate and pressure on the Danish side, but there is a deadlock, because one has a right to receive training aid if one is a migrant worker, and one can do so with a relatively small amount of work and thus also have the right to su. This is something we must bear in mind, even though we would like the situation to be different. There I am glad that the Danish People's Party is also part of the circle that responsibly goes in and addresses it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111715	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111716	That, then, is what we are jointly trying to do with the law we are discussing today, namely to do what we can then do. But I'm actually looking for something else. Now that the Minister has this on his desk, that is to say that there is an active work to be done on this, how is the Minister going to work actively on this in the coming period, when hopefully the Minister is still a little minister, so that we can have a continuity in this? Of course, I know that this is the challenge. But what are the Minister's plans to actively go in and do something about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111749	After all, Denmark must continue to argue in EU contexts that it presents challenges for us to have this right as a migrant worker to receive training aid as well. This is something we have introduced in Denmark for Danish students, Danish citizens, Danish young people to have the opportunity to take education with su regardless of the background, so that you can get the support to be able to take an education. And then, as in the case of European cooperation, there are so many cases of this being the case here, but we will continue to draw attention to the problems it poses in Denmark and that we wish that we had other opportunities to address the problem than those that lie here. So the government will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111833	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111850	The debate is open and we are giving the floor to the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mrs Birgitte Vind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118111909	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. In the Social Democratic Party we have a strong desire to debureaucratise and regulate the public sector, and we have therefore previously supported free municipalities' attempts, and we are doing so again today. Our wish is that the public meeting with the public sector is present and meaningful and, at the same time, the municipalities must be run efficiently and safely. Of course, we have a responsibility here in this Chamber. However, in our zeal here at Christiansborg to check, measure and assess whether the public sector is now fully delivering, we have come to tape the public sector so strongly that it goes beyond both quality and efficiency, and we must of course have changed that. That is also why last year we concluded welfare agreements with seven municipalities that are right now leading the way and have released professionalism and proximity in selected welfare areas, so that we can learn how rigid procedural requirements and rules can be removed and replaced with local common sense and trust in our public employees, and we very much expect and hope that the welfare agreements will lead the way to more and better welfare. But the welfare agreements are not the only thing that will help us on our way. The free municipality experiments must also be carried out, and the draft law we are discussing here today is therefore an extension of selected free municipalities. We must not adopt new experiments or appoint new municipalities, but rather extend existing experiments. There are a number of free municipalities which are due to expire in New Year's, and at the same time there are many of them with great potential where we have not yet managed to translate experience, knowledge and new practices from the experiments into permanent changes for all municipalities. For some experiments it is not yet quite clear what the consequences and benefits of the experiments are, while for others it is the case that the experiments are part of other related legislative processes that are not ready to be put forward yet. Therefore, it makes sense to extend the experiments for most of them by one year, for most of them not two years, so that the participating municipalities do not have to return to old practice, so that they may reposition themselves after changes to the law shortly afterwards. Therefore, it will provide a better opportunity to take a position on those experiments where there is still no clarification. I am not going to stand here and go into each of the 14 attempts that the bill will be extended with, but I would like to sign off on the fact that there are selected free municipalities which are spreading beyond employment, housing, children, health and social areas. With the adoption of the legislative proposal, we are taking a small but important step in meeting the co-responsibility that I started by stating in my speech: that the public sector is being experienced by the public and meaningful, but at the same time is being operated efficiently and safely. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118112157	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118112209	Thank you for that, President. This bill that we are discussing here today is, after all, an extension of some free municipalities' attempts, which, in fact, were also put into effect when we had government power. In the Left, of course, we support it. We would really like to see further free municipalities running around the country. In fact, in the past, we ourselves have tabled a motion for a resolution in this area, in relation to how we could open up the possibility of increasing the freedom of all municipalities to experiment. And it is quite clear that, regardless of whether it is in the health, employment, housing or other areas, it is really, really important that we give greater freedom for municipalities to make experiments as well. That is why, of course, we on the Left also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118112308	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118112326	This bill is about the extension of a series of free municipalities attempts initiated by law back in 2017. At the time, we in the Danish People's Party supported the proposal because we wanted to contribute to finding new and better ways of solving the municipal tasks, and to find them it is, of course, good to be able to gain some experience in practice. As in the negotiations of the original bill back in 2017, we in the Danish People's Party have also now focused attention on the legal aspects of the trials, for example. around children's conversations, surveillance of door openings, etc. It is therefore essential that the focus continues to be on how the facilitations are used, how they affect the rights and opportunities of the citizens concerned. This is provided for in the original law and, of course, we assume that this framework will continue to apply during the extension. At some point we will have to discuss possible permanentisations on the basis of experience with the experiments, and in this context it is of course essential that the legal consequences and experience of the experiments are also well-written, and we expect the Minister to do so. Then there are some practical issues that are mentioned in the consultation answers, namely that the extension proposal has been submitted to consultation at the same time as the budget negotiations in the municipalities. Therefore, it might be relevant to know in the committee's work whether the municipalities involved have budgeted such that the experiments can really be continued in 2022, just so we know what we are looking into. And it could also argue that, before the extension runs out by the end of 2023, we should discuss what possible permanentisation should look like, so that the municipalities know it, before the budgeting for 2024. With these words, I can say that we in the Danish People's Party are positive about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118112504	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118112518	Thank you. It is important that we at Christiansborg constantly work to make room for the municipalities so that the municipalities can find alternative ways and opportunities. The public sector must dare to try out new ways of doing things, and that is how we ensure that municipalities deliver the core welfare that is so important for the security and security of citizens. Citizens must feel lifted and not squeezed off the system. And often citizens also know what it takes to get back on track, but we have situations where the case workers cannot give the citizens the help they need, and therefore it is good that we can free the municipalities where it is for the benefit of the citizens. In SF we hope that we can make a scheme forward-looking which also makes it easier for municipalities, among other things. to approach us here in the Danish Parliament if they have good suggestions on how things can be done differently • we talked about that in the spring. Today, we do not have to take a position on the individual parts of the experimental scheme, because it is only about the question of extending selected experimental possibilities, and we in the SF as such also support this, but there are parts that we are concerned about. It is important for the SF that the free municipality experiments do not become a slippery path in which the efforts of the municipalities undermine the legal certainty of the citizens. Firstly, we recognise that it is a difficult balance to work with debureaucratisation while at the same time ensuring legal certainty. So it is important for us to emphasise how important the commitment to, among other things. child and parent involvement is in cases of vulnerable children. Secondly, we are concerned about the situational video, audio and motion monitoring. Situational or otherwise, monitoring is a major interference with personal freedom. Every citizen has a right to privacy, and that is why we are concerned about that part. And we fear that monitoring can be a substitute for personal assistance and that it will be financial considerations that are the main incentive for the use of monitoring. Thirdly, when we are concerned about the legal certainty of citizens and, above all, about dignity, the attempt in section 14b about special door-openers is not basically about open doors, but about closed doors. And we would like to stress that such an important interference in personal freedom, which is putting people behind a closed door, must never become common practice. We agree that it is also well fenced in, but it is important for SF to say that this is something we are clearly aware of. However, with these reservations, we are largely in favour of extending the experiment, and we look forward to the forthcoming committee work and will try to see whether we can get some of the parts we are concerned about a little more in. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118112805	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then I do not see anyone from the Radical Left, so we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118112817	Thank you very much. The Enhedslisten is very pleased with experiments and it is important that the municipalities have free hands. But we have two very general principles when we relate to municipal experiments. The first is that they must not call into question the legal certainty of citizens, and that is very important. I also heard the previous rapporteur say something about that. And the second is that economic gain for municipalities must not be given priority over social security for citizens or for climate considerations or other similar things. I do not think that it is justified to make such an extension of the studies outlined. Firstly, I would like to be able to take a stand on each individual. Secondly, I think that, on a case-by-case basis, it requires a statement of reasons. I would therefore ask the Minister to draw up an inventory of both the objectives and the past of the attempts which he wishes to prolong and the reasons for this. So I look forward to that when I have sent the question over. And now that we have such an answer, the Enhedslisten will then decide on the bill. This may mean proposals for division, and it may also mean proposals for amendments at second reading and after committee work. We will explain that at that time. However, I should not fail to point out that we just had municipal elections - surprisingly enough - and it will probably take some time for the newly elected city councils to find out whether they want such attempts or might want to extend experiments that are already under way, and when I say that, of course, it is because I believe that the poor newly elected local roots should have the opportunity to take a position on the specific content, and that is probably not the very first thing they will be addressing the inaugural meeting here in the next few weeks. So we need a little time for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113008	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113015	This bill is a continuation of the scheme that we Conservatives helped introduce when we sat in government. Here we resulted in the 2016-2020 free municipality experiment, which should give selected municipalities, organised in the free community network, the freedom to test new and more effective ways of solving their tasks, and this bill we are discussing today aims to allow municipalities organised in the free community network to carry out the experiments for another 1 year, and a single attempt for another 2 years. The aim is to contribute to a better task solution for the benefit of citizens through efficiency improvements, simplifications and better governance in the municipalities. This is something we in the Conservatives are very positive about. In fact, there is actually an obligation to constantly look at how we can do things better for the benefit of citizens, but also most effectively, and how we get as much as possible for our tax dollars as we charge from the Danes to the community. That is why we also think it is a very good idea with free municipalities, where we give some municipalities the opportunity to find solutions from which other municipalities can learn. That's how we're gonna get better at solving the problems. I am also one of those who believe in local self-government, and I believe that the municipalities and municipal councils have only one interest, and that is the same interest that we have, namely to provide the best possible service to their citizens for the resources available. Therefore, I also have great confidence that local freedom in the task delivery is a good thing, which will challenge some of the ways we are doing things today, so that we can think new and thereby improve public service. That is why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113205	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. There is no one from New Citizens on this matter, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113228	Thank you. I believe that the Liberal Alliance has voted in favour of all free municipalities which have been treated in this Chamber, except for one which was that municipalities should be able to deprive the elderly of the right to choose a private provider of home care, so that they are solely dependent on the public authorities. We did not vote in favour of the free community attempt because there was a fundamental right to freedom and self-determination that was taken from the citizens, but otherwise we will vote in favour. We have also voted in favour of the attempts by the free community, which are currently being dealt with in this draft law when they were introduced, and we are buying the argument that they should be allowed to continue. That is why we will also be voting in favour of this draft law, which extends these free municipalities' attempts.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113317	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Free Greens, Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113330	In the Free Greens, of course, we are in favour of freedom. We would like to be able to give the municipalities the freedom to make the good local solutions that suit the citizens they have to serve and the staff who have to serve them. We would like to show confidence in the employees and give them the freedom to cooperate and to take as their starting point the needs of the citizens whom they must serve. We would like to give the opportunity to think in wholes and wholes across sectors. Stop thinking in boxes where you solve a problem somewhere and another problem somewhere else. If it is a family, you can think them together and make the solutions that give the family the best conditions. In this way, people will be better helped. One probably gets more for the money and one allows the employees to take responsibility and use their professional skills. We would also like to make it possible to simplify rules and to break down silo thinking so that those solutions can be made. This also means that this can contribute to less bureaucracy, less regulation and better service and a better working environment. That is why, of course, we think it is very good to extend this experimental scheme. In fact, we would like many more experimental schemes. It is also very important that they are properly evaluated, so that there is an opportunity to spread it out, and so that perhaps in the long term it can provide a basis for actually giving the municipalities more freedom. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113517	Thank you. There are no comments, and there are no comments from KD. Then it's the Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113529	Thank you. I would also like to acknowledge the receipt of the draft law and the comments that have fallen today. The bill contains 15 experimental homes in the fields of the Minister of Employment, the Minister of Health, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Housing and the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of the Elderly for 1 and 2 years respectively. The extension of the experimental homes in question ensures that the municipalities in the free community network can continue a series of experiments while the final follow-up is clarified. I am very pleased with this and, of course, I am available to answer any questions which may be raised in the next committee and which, among other things, are: Enhedslisten has pointed to here from the platform. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113614	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Yes, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113620	Thank you. That will probably be a slightly different short remark. I may still have a little local election sitting in my head, which is why I forgot to greet the Radical Left and say that they are in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113637	Perhaps it was a little off the agenda. You don't, but now you did it this time. Thank you. Otherwise, there will be no brief comments to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Home Affairs and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113707	The debate is open. It's sir. Anders Kronborg. He's not here. Then we move on to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118113733	Thank you for the floor. The draft law that we are going to deal with now is basically intended to secure legal basis and it is a very good idea to have its legal basis in place. In this case, it is a question of permitting the implementation of the agreement of 18 March this year on the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, which all the parties of the Folketing were behind. The purpose of the agreement on the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund is to support development in Danish fisheries and aquaculture. For example, it is natural to mention the green transition, which is in full swing throughout Danish society. Sustainability is being invested. The same applies, of course, to the green conversion of fisheries. It should be given further impetus by the agreement we have reached on the implementation of the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund. A total of 3.1 billion will be allocated. kr. to meet the environmental, economic, social and employment objectives of the common fisheries policy. There are resources which Danish fishermen, among other things. may seek to cover the costs of conversion to more green and sustainable fisheries. It is a helping-out which I am quite sure Danish fishermen will accept. In addition, provision is made for all relevant written communication between the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries and companies or natural persons to take place digitally. Digitalisation is good, and it is also a good opportunity to ease administrative burdens, but it must of course also be seen as a relief for fishermen in everyday life. That is why, of course, it is important that this focus is also central when the demand is put into practice. The situation in Danish fishing is very serious right now. These are, in particular, the consequences of brexit, where Danish fishermen have lost quotas for over 1 billion. kr. We see it in the Baltic Sea, where the quotas, which are already low, are being further reduced in fact drastically reduced next year. Measures are needed to restore faith in the future of Danish fishing. The legislative proposal we have before us is a small contribution to this, but we need to get more on the table to ensure a necessary faith in the future of Danish fisheries. On the left side, we support the bill and we stand by the agreement we have reached, but I would just like to say that I share the criticism that has been made of some of the agreement, for example how much money goes from the EHFAF to regulatory tasks, fisheries control and other things, which really ought to have been financed by the Finance Act. However, we support the bill and we support the agreement we have reached. And then I have promised to say that so does the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114041	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114044	It is a question of checking the profession. Why wouldn't there be a payment like this? The alternative is that it is the fishermen themselves who have to pay for the control of the fishing industry. There is also a payment in the food sector, for example. when you are controlled on food safety. So I really would like us to come to the conclusion that the fishing industry was paying for the control of the industry. Then there would be more money to develop the fishing industry through these funds. Does the rapporteur not see that there is a certain logic in the fact that controls should actually be paid elsewhere? Instead of being on the Finance Act, it should be something the fishermen paid for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114130	It is quite true that, in general, food control is user-funded. It is the companies that pay for the control. But now there is also a task of authority here to ensure that the rules that have been adopted are being fished, and there is just what I am saying: I am a little sorry that so much of this 3.1 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject. That is what I think is a little clever when the government says: OK, now comes a pool from the European Union, and we then use part of it for tasks that would normally be funded by the Finance Act. This seems to me to be a little too much financial optimisation, rather than the money being spent on what was intended, namely to ensure a more positive development for Danish fisheries and aquaculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114235	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114236	I am sure that if there was less money for bureaucracy here, we could easily turn up other initiatives in an agreement where we were able to develop the fishing industry more effectively. So I would like to maintain that, since we have a food sector which pays for its own control, it should also be the case in the fishing industry. I listened to a small opening that the rapporteur could see that logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114314	Let me say that my answer should in no way be understood in the sense that I believe that Danish fishing should be subject to additional burdens and additional fees. On the contrary, we should go the other way. It's a profession that's really hard pressed. This is simply the situation, and it is not only fisheries control, but also a general authority service that the government spends these 3.1 billion. DKr, primarily financed by the EU, to finance tasks which are normally financed by the Finance Act alone. I just think it's too bad it's so much part of this deal. I would have liked it to have been less, because then there would have been more money to ensure a more optimistic atmosphere in the fisheries sector, namely by giving some more money that could help to promote the development of Danish fisheries and aquaculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114358	Thank you for that and there are no more comments. Then it's... I think this is a little messed up. Sir. Anders Kronborg is standing on his desk and hasn't shown up yet. And Bjarne Laustsen has to wait because there was no rapporteur at the right time, nor does it appear that there is from the Danish People's Party. That's not good. Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114441	Thank you for that and, as most of you can see, I am also a substitute and am here for a rapporteur who cannot be in the Chamber today. Our comment is that we agree, of course, with the draft law, which is the implementation of the broad conciliation we are part of. It contains a number of good points, and we are pleased to be included in an agreement that guarantees more funding for gentle fishing. In the SF, we are pleased that money has been secured for control and for a profession which in these years is facing some major challenges. And in a conciliation you do not get everything you want, but with this agreement we are taking some important steps towards the conversion of fisheries, and it is important that this is a process that we are working on. At least we will have a firm focus on that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114530	There are no comments, and we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, and he is not here either. I think we need some rapporteurs today. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. He's here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114554	Today's progress is mysterious. After all, this is an agreement that Enhedslisten is part of around the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, and where we from Denmark send money into the EU, and then there is some EU money that comes back to Denmark and that we then have the opportunity to translate. And in Enhedslisten we are pleased that we are in that agreement and that significant steps are being taken to ensure that Danish fishing and aquaculture can move ambitiously forward on the green agenda, and in particular that we ensure a strengthened research effort and use solid professional biological advice. For example, when it comes to conversion to greener fishing vessels, we have. for years had electric cars on the roads, but there still does not exist fishing vessels sailing on green energy. There is therefore a potential to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we can replace fossil fuels with greener technology. With the agreement, we support initiatives that develop and test that very thing. A way towards a more green and sustainable fishing and aquaculture industry is also to support the conversion to new fisheries or aquaculture. An example of this is that in the agreement we are now setting aside money for the professional use of seaweed. It is still a very new profession in Denmark, which has a huge potential with both seaweed for food, for feed and for the development of new products. In the Enhedslisten we are pleased that seaweed production is supported by these funds from the agreement. We are also particularly pleased that electronic monitoring consists of sheltering the official service tasks. The work has been going on for years, and this gives us an evidence-based overview of the amount of by-catches and what we need to do to reduce by-catches. We believe that future control of the fishing industry is much more electronically based than we have control vessels to sail around. We focus on the fact that support is targeted at sustainable coastal fishermen and it is necessary to strengthen the development of coastal and gentle fishing throughout the country. We are also looking forward to a substantial improvement in fisheries control. That is what is needed. So we think there are a large number of good elements in the agreement that we now see translated into a legislative proposal, and we can fully support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114831	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on. This is happening fast today, because there are not really any rapporteurs. Conservatives aren't here either, so that's sir. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114844	Thank you. The draft law is the implementation of an agreement which New Citizens have helped to conclude, and that is why we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114855	Thank you. Nor is there anyone from the Liberal Alliance, nor outside the groups. Suzanne Zimmer, no? Okay, let's go, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go, and then it's Mr. Knox. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118114916	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have promised to take this rapporteur's speech for Kasper Roug, our ordinary Fisheries rapporteur. And I'm looking up at the fisherman up there under the ceiling with the southwest. He doesn't have any waders on, but after all long boots, and once it was a really proud profession it's still gone a proud profession but there's not as many people employed in it as there were when the Danish Parliament was used here 118 years ago. After all, this bill is based on the fact that we have made an agreement, and in the Social Democrats we have a huge focus on the green transition, including in fisheries and aquaculture. We must create a sea of balance and at the same time ensure that we can get fresh fish from nature. That is why we are also very pleased, since in March all the parties in the Danish Parliament were united in an agreement on the allocation of funds from the European Fund for Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture. It is a very good agreement that pushes Danish fishing and aquaculture in a greener and more sustainable direction, an agreement that ensures that nature, the environment and jobs are maintained and developed and that rusts the fishing industry against the challenges of the future. Together, we are among others. agree to support initiatives that develop and test green technologies that can replace fossil fuels and support our goal of reducing Denmark's CO2 by 2030. We agree to support interventions against marine waste and ghost networks and, above all, we agree to support and develop gentle and coastal fishing, which also benefits smaller ports and our communities. These are just some examples of many good and strong initiatives from the agreement that we have to implement with the legislative proposal we are discussing today. The aim of the draft law is to ensure that the funds can actually be paid out. Specifically, the draft law lays down rules on the measures to be supported. The Minister is hereby authorized to lay down the detailed rules for this implementation. Overall, it is a good agreement that we are implementing with the bill here, and it is extremely positive that the parliamentary parties are united in developing greener and more sustainable fisheries. Against this background, I can say that the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118115140	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118115158	Thank you for that, President. Yes, we have a draft law on the Marine, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund today and, as previous rapporteurs have said, it is an agreement that has been reached earlier this year. In fact, this is a very important legislative proposal because, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, Danish fishing is not the same fishing as we used to have. Danish fishing is in fewer hands, we have got bigger units in some places, but elsewhere we also have less fishing. In fact, fishing today is not just about fish; it is also about the local areas of which the fishermen are part and the jobs that it provides. That is why I am very pleased that in the agreement that we have had done here and also thanks to the Minister for that it was possible to get so many things with, too, many innovative things. Then we'll see if it's all gonna work out. We have brought with us seaweed production and other things, that is to say, how we can develop the fishing industry, how we can capitalise nature's resources in the sea in a good and sustainable way. So we look forward very much to using this agreement from now until 2027 as a tool, which we can also look into and see what it is we can support, how we can ensure that the money that is now coming from here should grow, i.e. get a factor where you put 1 kr. I would like to see it become something more out there so that we can develop our fishing industry, but certainly also those areas where the fishing industry is. The fishing industry is, after all, the largest in the province, and that is where we need the most jobs. So this is a very good agreement for fishermen, but it is also a very good agreement for Denmark. We can, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118115333	Thank you. Then there are no more rapporteurs and no more have asked to speak, and the debate is over. No, there's the minister too. He's here. Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118115347	Thank you very much, President. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the speeches that have been made here in the debate and also for a good and constructive debate that has taken place on the legislative proposal. It's really nice and positive, when the whole parliament can come together for an agreement like this one, so thank you to all the parties involved for this cooperative government at its best. When it was that in March all the parties of the Folketing agreed on the marine, fisheries and aquaculture programme, there were a number of things that we agreed on. We agreed that it is important that Danish fishing and aquaculture ensure a sea in balance. We agreed that using and protecting marine resources should go hand in hand, and we agreed that the green conversion or blue conversion, if you like, means that we need to strengthen research efforts and the use of biological advice. With the agreement, we also agreed that significant steps must be taken to ensure three main interests: firstly, we must ensure that Danish fishing and aquaculture can move ambitiously forward on the green agenda; secondly, we must ensure that nature, environment and growth and employment in both rural and urban areas continue to be maintained and developed; and thirdly, we must ensure that the fishing industry is equipped to face the challenges of the future, where fishing capacity and resource base must be constantly aligned. The aim of the draft law here is to lay the foundations for the implementation of the agreement on the marine, fisheries and aquaculture programme under the regulation on the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, also referred to as the regulation on the EHFAF. The draft law is a framework law authorising the establishment of the necessary provisions for the administration and establishment of aid schemes under the EHFAF in Denmark. The EHFAF Regulation we also pronounce the name in one word sometimes sets out the framework for the national implementation of EHFAF by individual EU Member States, including which actions can be supported by funds from the EHFAF Fund. As you know, it is Denmark's ambition to be the leader in the green or, if you like, blue conversion, and to be able to do so requires that we develop and test green technologies in the Danish fisheries and aquaculture industry. That is why the agreement on the marine, fisheries and aquaculture programme provides for funding for projects relating to demonstration and testing of the green conversion of the fishing fleet and the aquaculture industry. The money is to be used to manage the development of commercial solutions that have an effect on the fishing and aquaculture industry. The decline in the number of fish indicates that there is still a need to ensure sustainable management of fisheries, in which we support the protection of the marine environment. Funds have been allocated to research and business projects in relation to sustainable management of the sea and fisheries, and the aim is to have a better basis for management that ensures a sustainable sea. There is a need for good measures and support schemes to help ensure the development of Danish fisheries and aquaculture, and the draft law is therefore necessary to implement the Agreement of 18 March 2021 on the Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Programme from 2021 to 2023. With these words, I shall look forward to the committee's examination of the draft law, and I would like to thank you once again for the debate and, above all, for the very wide-ranging cooperation. It is really positive when the Folketing can stand together on something that is good and green too at sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118115745	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, has a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118115751	In other words, I think it is interesting if the agreement we have made here is compatible with other plans, which is why I would like to hear from the Minister about the extent to which the initiatives we have here can play along with an action plan for the Baltic Sea and future fisheries there. And I would also like to hear, now that a long time ago there was such a presentation meeting that we were about to get a plan of the sea, whether the Minister knows a timetable, whether an agreement has been planned for negotiation, because someone has told me that the government can just make a plan of the sea itself, so there is a legal basis for that. However, I actually have the impression that the government is suggesting that we should have extensive discussions, among others. On top of the consultation responses that have come in where a large number of municipalities have been active in relation to the draft marine plan there is. And I guess part of that marine plan is also that we need to focus on the need to restore some fish stocks and that we need to relate to the fishing industry. So that was my comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118115851	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118115853	Thank you very much, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten for one, I think, very relevant question. First in relation to the Baltic Sea: there we have been in a difficult situation in many ways, and we have been doing so for many years. What we can see in the Baltic Sea is that a number of reasons are involved in relation to the fact that there is a very poor stock of fish, which is from nitrogen emissions to higher temperatures, to seals and cormorants, to large fisheries. Many things are involved, which unfortunately mean that we have very poor stocks in the Baltic Sea. That is why we had to downgrade the quotas, and it is obvious that we are working together on how to promote the use of more gentle fishing or more gentle fishing gear. That's some of what we're looking at. The same thing that will also be included is the whole reflection on structural adjustment. In relation to a marine strategy: This is something we work hard on, and of course we would like to have close cooperation on it, including in the Folketing, because it is better when it is broadly anchored.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118115958	Thank you. And Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118115959	It is good to hear that the government wants close cooperation on that marine plan. I interpret this as meaning that it is, after all, negotiations that are being set up, where we are looking at a consultation note and how we can improve the approach of the government and how we can then come to an agreement that secures our sub-sea nature values. Does the Minister agree that it is real negotiations that should take place on this marine plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120028	Now we have a long list of tasks to do in relation to what is going to happen in the fisheries sector, and I believe that there are many fishermen who are concerned, first and foremost, with the fact that we are getting started very quickly on the issue of redefining the Brexit reserve. There really are some people who have gotten into a mess here. And when it is over, many people are focused on the fact that we have to solve the whole challenge in relation to the Baltic Sea. Then there's the marine strategy. I will, of course, pass it on, because it is also the case that I have to work with other ministers in relation to this, but we are looking at how we do this in the best possible way. We want broad cooperation, that is our approach to it. We stand best, as with this agreement, when we can land something broad in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120106	Thank you. And then there are no further comments. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120121	The debate is open. Sir. Anders Kronborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120140	Thank you to the President for having the floor for the debate on L 81. The draft law we are discussing here today aims to extend the temporary ban on mink teams up to and including 2022. This is done in the interests of public health. When we have this bill today, I think it is important that we start by remembering what kind of situation we faced last autumn. The Corona infection spread very rapidly from mink farm to mink farm and into society. More than 4,000 people were infected with the corona variant from mink. When it was the worst in North Jutland, approx. 60% of all positive corona responses related to mink. The State's Serum Institute then estimated that mink teams in Denmark could, at worst, threaten the effects of the vaccines in which the whole world had put its trust. It was therefore essential that action be taken to reduce the infection. As a responsible government, one of the most important tasks is to ensure public health, which is why it was decided to put an end to mink. Now the Statens Serum Institute has come up with an updated assessment of the risk of mitk in relation to public health. The State Serum Institute insists that in the coming year there is, and I quote, a risk to people of unknown size by keeping mink. We in the Social Democratic Party do not want to take that risk. We do not want to gamble with the lives and health of our citizens, and that is why we are here today to deal with a legislative proposal on extending the ban by one year. Moreover, the agreement also states that it is possible to extend the hibernation regime. At the same time, we can see that the infection is rising again in society, and corona is again categorized as a social-critical disease. This happens despite the fact that many Danes support the strategy and have allowed themselves to be vaccinated, and also a lot of people are continually tested. The extension will allow us to gain knowledge and experience with the covidpandemic over the autumn and winter months. The Statens Serum Institute has also highlighted the need for this, so that we can observe developments over the winter and we have the best decision-making basis in terms of public health, and so we can be absolutely sure by resuming mink production in 2023. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120514	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120519	Thank you. The bill refers exclusively to public health, and then we have to evaluate things sometime next year, and then we have to consider whether there can be mink after 2022. No animal-ethical assessments have been mentioned at all, but it is the case that the Animal Ethnic Council has recently made statements on whether mink production in the existing form is acceptable for animal welfare and there is the conclusion from the Council as a whole that keeping mink in the existing cages (to 2020) with such limited freedom of movement and few options for fitting with sufficient enrichment is not acceptable. It is not acceptable and it is my repetition, it only says once. However, in relation to the question of looking into a hibernation scheme, why would a hibernation scheme continue if it is not acceptable to recycle the production conditions in the existing mink farms?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120624	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, for one, I think, both well and very relevant. I think it is very important to separate things. What we are dealing with here today relates only to the infection in relation to the extension of a ban. It is important to stress that, even before the mink was killed, the Social Democrats indicated that we were not against the mink industry. We didn't do this to put an end to the industry in any way. We did this alone in the light of the infection. There were some skilled mink farmers who took up a legal profession and as any other profession, when we talk animal units, you look at how the animals are doing, how they are kept, how they are reared, etc. It is, of course, perfectly legal to discuss it on a regular basis. I do not reject that in any way. I just think that in the situation we are in here, it is very important to separate things. Now we are talking about extending a specific hibernation regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120736	We do not do that at all, because the hibernation scheme is not part of the bill, so that is nonsense. This is a question of extending a ban, so it is forbidden to keep mink in 2022. Frankly, I think that, as a politician, two good arguments can sometimes be put forward, and here we are faced with the fact that there is public health that we can relate to and some animal ethics. Does the rapporteur not see that, now that new information has been received from the Animal Health Council, it is reasonable that it should also be part of the social democracy's reflection on whether there can be a mink business in Denmark in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120810	I don't think that's nonsense. It is clear that the people we are now making this mink team ban for next year until 2023 can still be part of the hibernation regime and then, if we allow it, restart the profession in 2023. But I would like to say to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that animal welfare, animal ethics etc. we are always ready to discuss on an ongoing basis, regardless of what kind of animal we are dealing with whether it is pigs, mink or other animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120843	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120847	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur something, because the rapporteur refers to the law last year, L 77, to the SSI, but is it not true that in their hearing reply SSI asked for the comments to be written into it, that it was a political decision? SSI didn't want to be part of the SSI. They wrote loudly and loudly that they had not decided or said anything that we should stop holding mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118120928	I want to make it quite clear: no one has decided that teams of mink should cease. A temporary ban has been imposed on mink in relation to public health. That was what a majority of the parliamentary parties also supported, and I clearly agree with Mrs Lise Bech that there was a recommendation from the SSI that this involved a risk in relation to public health and that involved a risk in relation to future vaccines. So it is absolutely correct that there is a recommendation, and there my party, the Social Democratic Party, has said that when there is such a clear and clear recommendation from the State Serum Institute in relation to public health that it can threaten public health we saw no other way out than to say that then we had to put the mines to death. And I also explained in my rapporteur's speech that we know that more than 4 000 people were infected during this period with the corona variant from mink. More than 60%. of those infected in North Jutland had the variant from mink. It was serious, the infection was out of control.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121044	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121046	Then I'd like to ask you something else. This year comes the recommendation and the rapporteur says it comes clearly from the SSI. So I would like a definition of the wording: a health risk of unknown size is that clear and clear?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121107	I think that when it says directly, and I quote directly, a risk to people of unknown size and it comes from a government agency, our health authorities, it is always a political assessment whether it is a risk that you dare to run. When I am told that there is a risk of unknown size, I would say clearly that the risk of social democracy does not run. This is, of course, quite natural, and it is a political choice if the Danish People's Party, for example. run the risk, among other things. to our older fellow citizens in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121145	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121148	Thank you. In May, the Danish Food Authority asked the Danish Veterinary Consortium to provide an assessment of how to safely resume mink farming in Denmark from 1 January 2022. I think that was a wise question, but it was cancelled, and instead the government has simply leaned on the analysis of the SSI from which the rapporteur refers. Why should we, as a Parliament, not have provided information on how to properly resume mink growing in Denmark per year? January 1, 2022?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121230	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121231	As I explained in my rapporteur's speech, I think it is actually very sensible to say that we want to know more about this, that in the autumn and winter we are following this very closely in relation to the assessment of whether we should resume the mink business in 2023. I do not think there is anyone other than those who have indicated what disagrees with the fact that if the mink industry can be operated properly in relation to public health, it is a completely legal profession. After all, the Social Democracy and the Left are part of the common agreement in terms of compensation and compensation, where we have just put a dormant model into the agreement if there are minks who want to start up again. So I think we should follow this very, very closely, and that is what is being said by the health authorities in relation to what the questioner is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121326	I can't thank you for the answer. I can thank you for the words. Because my question was trivial. The Danish Food Authority asks for a professional assessment at the Danish Veterinary Consortium of how minkavl can be properly resumed. That order will be cancelled. What kind of answers do the Social Democrats think we should not be able to see before a decision could be taken on when mink growing should resume in Denmark? Why was that order cancelled? What kind of questions do the Social Democrats think the Folketing should not have?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121404	I do not think that anything is being or has been swept under the carpet in this respect. This is about how we take public health into account, i.e. the risk of infection, among other things. In relation to humans. And there we say clearly, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, that we must follow this closely, also in relation to an experience that comes over autumn and winter. And then Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen also said that soon the Minister will be here, and there he is. Torsten Schack Pedersen of course also has the opportunity to ask the Minister the same question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121444	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121448	Thank you. The rapporteur stresses that we must have the best basis for decision-making. A few days after the Danish Veterinary Consortium has been given the best decision-making basis, knowledge basis, it is cancelled by the government and by the Minister. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that, as a Parliament and as a Social Democrat, we are being presented with the best possible basis for decision when the government cancels the training that has actually been given and where both the SSI and the veterinary sector should give us that. Is this the best possible basis for decision-making?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121531	I think that's very, very sensible, sir. Thomas Danielsen, that the focus of what we are dealing with here is human health. That is what we need clarification on, and that is what we have been given clarification on. And here I just have to say to the rapporteur that it is actually very clear that there is a risk for people of unknown size. That is certainly reason enough for me not to take a risk in relation to people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121605	I wonder if I'm taking part in an entertainment program or some kind of TV show. Excuse me, but unrecognized size. That's the whole problem. SSI cannot say what the risk is, what the risk is, if there are only 10 mink growers starting up again, or 50. Is it bigger or less? Yeah, it's of unknown size. What's the risk of 88%? has been vaccinated twice by the Danish population? Yes, the risk is unknown. What's the risk of vaccinating every mink? Yes, the risk is unknown! Because the government has denied the training that should qualify for the risk assessment. Therefore, SSI can only say that it is of unknown size. Does the rapporteur not see that this is a completely hopeless basis for decision-making?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121645	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121646	Now the rapporteur on the left is referring to an entertainment programme; I was actually standing when the rapporteur was speaking and wondered if I was part of the Guess & Grimasser. Because there are some things that you have to accept that you cannot answer quite unequivocally. I think that if we had asked the health authorities when the first mink farms were infected, where we were in a week's time, it would have had to be said that that could not be answered unequivocally. We know that last year's mink infection came completely out of control. Among other things: The rapporteur's colleague also criticized here in the Danish Parliament why they were not killed more quickly, and now we had to get into the fight. It was massive dispersal among mink, and therefore in relation to the history we have, it makes a very big impression on me when it says "of unknown size." It can be very big. We don't dare take that risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121734	Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121736	Thank you. I understand, sir. Anders Kronborg would rather not discuss animal welfare so much, so I shall try to stick to public health, because the argument of the rapporteur is that there will be a risk of unknown size • that is what the SSI says will be in 2022. And we are in a situation where it does not exactly appear that corona is on its way out of our society. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not think it likely that SSI will also say that there will be a risk of unknown size in 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121808	I wouldn't dare to speculate about that, sir. Carl Valentin. I know that both your party and my party are part of the same deal where you have the opportunity to extend the hibernation regime. However, I would say that if the SSI makes the same assessment in 2022, my view will clearly be the same, namely that we as Parliament should take it very seriously, because we should not gamble with the health of people. That is also why we have said that we must now follow this very closely over the autumn, over the winter, and then the parties will have to return to the same as the previous agreement, which we agreed to meet and discuss this objectively and properly. Because we must not, under a global pandemic, gamble with public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121852	Thank you. Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121855	I am reasonably pleased with those words from the rapporteur, but I also hope that we will think a little forward, because the very likely scenario is that there will also be a risk of restarting mink growing if we do so in 2023. Therefore, I would like to appeal for a little foresight as well and not just for years to come, but to take the discussion as to whether it makes any sense at all to think about restarting mink breeding within the last year. For my best judgment is that SSI will also find that there is a risk in 2023 and then I don't think you should pretend people that they can start mink breeding in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118121932	Now I cannot ask the rapporteur questions, but one of the lessons I have learned both in municipal politics and in here is that a word is a word and that an agreement is an agreement. A number of parties have agreed with each other, including the rapporteur's party, SF, that there is a dormant model in relation to mink breeding and that mink breeding can be restarted if there is no risk to public health. So I would like to say to the rapporteur for the SF that we must, of course, pay particular attention to the fact that mink farming must, of course, be carried out where it is responsible and proper in relation to public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122014	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Thank you, sir. Kronborg. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122035	Thank you. The whole process of decommissioning the mink industry in Denmark has been terrible. The proceedings are now unveiled in the Mink Commission, where the truth will hopefully come out, no matter how much material and how many text messages have been deleted, because the truth deserves to come out. This is what the thousands of minkers and their employees and downstream industries deserve, who at one stroke experienced their life's work being torn away from one day to the next. The truth needs to be told. Many people now experience impatience in terms of obtaining compensation for their mink farm or their business, and I hope that the compensation will soon start to be paid to the people affected. But there are also growers who are ready to resume production and have the ambition to start up again. We have been very aware that there was a desire for this in someone, and that is why the agreement we reached in January also contains a dormant model for the mink growers who have the courage to start up again. They should have the opportunity to put their business into hibernation, get their costs covered, and then have the opportunity to start up again after New Year. However, the bill that we are now proposing will then extend the ban on mink by another year, so that start-up can take place at the earliest in 2023. What's ahead of this bill? Yes, we had little contact with it during the questions to the Social Democratic rapporteur, but let me just stress that in May the Danish Food Authority commissioned a normal risk assessment by resuming minkavl in Denmark at the Danish Veterinary Consortium. How was it possible to ensure that mink breeding could resume in Denmark? However, it is not long after the order, so the Danish Health Authority will order an assessment of the human health at SSI, and the original order at Dansk Veterinær Konsortium will be cancelled. What you ask is whether there is any risk whatsoever of mink growing. It also states that there is no desire to propose possible solutions. And then you get an answer that is quite predictable, namely that there may be a health risk of unknown size. No finding solutions; no looking at alternatives; no looking at the fact that other countries have started to vaccinate mink; no looking at the fact that a very, very large part of the Danish population has been vaccinated; no examining the possibilities of how mink could be more isolated than we were used to. And that is, in fact, the main point of the matter seen with the eyes of the Left. We have not had a proper basis for decision. We do not think this is fair to the mink farmers who have an uncertain future, nor do I think it is politically appropriate to treat us in the Folketing who are involved in the decision-making process in this way, because we simply do not have a real basis for decision-making. But it seems that there are some who have an interest in the fact that the answers to these questions do not come out. So it is not a process or a resolution that we in the Left can help legitimise, and that is why we on the Left are voting against the bill. And I have promised to announce that so does the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122448	Thank you. Sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122451	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left for his speech. Now Corona is again categorized as a social-critical disease, that is. that it is extremely serious. And then I was a little back in the annals, because it is sometimes wise in politics both to look ahead, but of course also to look back, and there I stumbled over an article from B.T. from 8 November 2020, when Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has been quoted as saying that I agree that the decisions are challenged in the newspapers by various experts, but I do not see that we have any other option than to rely on the health authorities' assessment in a situation like this. If the largest opposition party starts to cast doubt on our health authorities in the midst of a crisis, we risk ending up in a completely wrong place. It is reported from an e-mail sent by the President of the Left to all the members of the Left. Torsten Schack Pedersen got it. Now we are in a critical situation again, and that, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen actually does here from the platform, is to ask critical questions in relation to the Statens Serum Institute and thus use it as a reason for not voting for a resolution. Is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen does not agree that this is a problem and how does he view it in relation to Mr Schack Pedersen? Jakob Ellemann-Jensen's quote?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122614	I think it would be a good idea to re-invigorate what preceded it, because the right information had not been provided to the President of the Left. And that is the same thing we hear here, namely that it was the health authorities' recommendation to knock down the mines. I think it was Mrs Lise Bech who so finely referred to what the SSI wrote when we dealt with L 77. SSI wanted to get rid of it so it was just to refresh what really preceded it. And I do not understand why the Social Democratic Party was not interested either last year or this year in finding and asking for a basis for decision, where alternatives were looked at and where opportunities were examined, but that one alone would have a risk assessment without looking at alternatives. For then I think the answer is given in advance: a risk of unknown size. And I know it will be the answer to a lot of the questions you ask to the SSI. Why could the Folketing not get more information so that we could make decisions on an informed basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122719	Thank you. Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122720	First of all, I am sorry to the President that I have just drawn my last question a little over time, which is why I also think that, in order to make up time, we should do the next question very quickly, so it is a yes or no question to the rapporteur of the Left who says that we are not getting the right information. Is it correct to say yes or no that health authorities write and I quote that there is a risk for people of unknown size? Is that right? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122747	No one has ever challenged what the SSI has said. But the question is, what is SSI answering? And SSI answers a question called: Is water wet? And to that the answer is yes. Why should SSI not offer alternative options so that we can decide together? The government did not wish to provide those answers for the Folketing. I find that scandalous.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122820	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. That is why it is Mrs Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118122826	Thank you, President. During the legislative process of L 77 last year, when we dealt with the bill on the killing and temporary prohibition of mink teams, it is interesting, as I said in my question, that SSI in its hearing reply on 26 November loud and noisy and with emphasis writes: "In SSI's opinion, the first two paragraphs of point 2.1.3, in which the SSI's risk assessment is summarised, should be deleted and replaced with a text focusing on the political decision on the removal of mink. In addition, SSI notes in the consultation reply that it is not SSI that has proposed the killing of mink, which may be the view of the current structure of the section. This is of course interesting in relation to L 81, where it concerns the extension of the temporary ban on mink teams. For again, again, the government pushes the SSI ahead and decides, together with its support parties on an unlikelyly thin professional basis, that the prohibition of teams of mink should be extended. According to the SSI, the Ministry of Health specifically asks for an assessment of the risk to human health and expressly rejects proposals for possible solutions. We simply do not want to know what measures could be used to limit the health risks of mink teams in the future. It seems strange that in the spring of 2021 a team of experts from the Danish Veterinary Consortium, under direct orders from the Ministry, were stopped from examining the possibility of reopening mink breeding in Denmark. So SSI writes in their risk assessment this year that it is SSI's assessment that teams of mink in Denmark after 2021 can lead to a health risk for people of unknown size. It sounds completely unbelievable that a ban should be based on that wording. As the Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences at the KU writes in their answer, the risk of unknown size means de facto that the risk lies in the range from almost impossible to almost 100 per cent. likely. So is it bird or fish? The risk assessment does not relate to specific scenarios and risks, including the possibilities of vaccines and tests in mink herds. How large a mink population is the ISS risk assessment made on? If it's 15-30 million minks, it's totally unrealistic. The realistic figure is less than one million. There is a lack of description of experience and practice with regard to e.g.: vaccination of mink in neighbouring countries. The government did not want a real risk assessment. I simply think it is so distasteful that the government treats people in this way, kicks people and families who are already lying down even though most of the former minkers had hoped to start up again. It is beneath all criticism that the government continues to claim that the mink industry in Denmark has not been closed when, immediately after the ban last year, assessments and frameworks for future mink production have not been launched in Denmark, for example. such as housing conditions, the distance between herds, the number of animals per animal. crew, vaccination of mink and personnel, surveillance of disease incidence, and I could go on. So, of course, the Danish People's Party cannot support a bill that is on such a thin academic basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118123219	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has asked for a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118123221	Now the rapporteur took and highlighted the sentence contained in SSI's recommendations on whether there could be mink breeding in Denmark after 2021 and then pulling it forward with the idea that it could lead to a health risk for people of unknown size. On top of that sentence, there are three points. It says that people working in the mink industry have a particular risk. Then reference is made to the possibility that there may be an infection reservoir which may give rise to additional social infection among non-vaccine recipients, persons who have not responded adequately to the vaccine and, where appropriate, persons who have decreased immunity to the vaccine. And as the third point: Finally, several variants of SARS-CoV-2 can occur in society, with the likelihood of new variants directly linked to the extent of virus replication in the hosts being infected. This may, in the worst cases, affect the possibility of preventing covid-19 with the existing human vaccines. Well, I actually think it's pretty concrete there. After all, it is not just a question of there being some diffuse health risk for people of unknown size. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118123326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118123327	As far as vaccines are concerned, this year it is in the same way as it was last year. You wouldn't hear those who actually know anything about it, Jens Lundgren, Niels Høiby, who actually know something about vaccines and say it won't affect the vaccines, for all viruses mutate. So does flu viruses; they also change from year to year. So that's not it. What I think the rapporteur does not hear is the last thing I say in my speech. That is, in fact, why we do not want to investigate how large herds it might be, precisely the mink vaccine, the human vaccine, etc. etc. The rapporteur is not looking at this at all. The SSI hasn't been allowed to look at that either. They have been deprived of the right to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118123421	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118123422	Right now I'm looking at a graph of how the different variations spread. There I find it deeply alarming that there were 4,000-5000 people who were infected with the mink variant and that it exploded so quickly up in North Jutland. I actually only need to look at that graph of the historical to be deeply concerned. Can the rapporteur not see that if there are more new varieties, then this risk of infection is, as it were, of unknown size and really a serious threat to public health in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118123454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118123455	I interpret as unknown the size of zero. But that's how we're so different. I come from North Jutland, where the dangerous was. Cluster-5, which last year was the reason why we were told that this was going to go completely wrong, was extinct when it was decided that all mink should be killed on 4 November. No cluster 5 virus had been detected since September, and it takes approx. Two weeks to sequence these. So it was extinct even when it was decided that now we should kill all minks.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118123530	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118123547	Thank you. I have to comment on the last point that has been made here, that is to say, the risk of unknown size is interpreted as the risk of zero. Well, it's a completely wild way of reading SSI's risk assessment, and I'll make it clear in my speech why. In the SF we think it is very sensible to extend the temporary ban on mink teams on the basis of the health professional assessment that lies. That is because there is much more in that assessment than just that there is a risk of unknown size. Specifically, the three risks that there may be for humans relate to restarting mink breeding. This is among other things. the occupational risk to employees, both those employees who work with mink in everyday life and are on mink farms, but also those on furry farms. It's about the possibility of this infection reservoir that we saw last time we had mink production in Denmark, where there was a great deal of infection spreading to the surrounding population. And finally, this is about the fact that new mutations can arise in mink production, which we do not know the consequences of. In addition to the note, we have also had meetings with the SSI, where they have presented this to us. There they have also orally mentioned the risk that some new mutations of corona will enter the mink farms, which we do not know how to behave in there, for example. the new delta variant. I don't want to see how the new delta variant will behave on a mink farm when we can see how aggressive it behaves when it infects people. So I think there is plenty of medical evidence that there are risks associated with restarting mink breeding, and that is why, of course, we should not do so. In addition, I must also say here that if you ask the SF, we think it is a good thing to extend the temporary ban, but we would think it would be better if a permanent ban were imposed. There are several reasons for this. There are, among other things: some health-care arguments. First of all, Corona is not on its way to disappear. There is no real indication that in 2023 or 2024 or beyond, corona is completely out of our society. Therefore, there will continue to be the risk of corona entering the mink farms, that it can mutate, that infection reservoirs can occur, etc., and that is why we must also be a little more forward-looking than just looking one year forward. Nor do we think that we should give the few mink growers who are on the hibernation scheme the hope of being able to start up again soon. It is better to tell them honestly: our assessment is that we cannot start in the foreseeable future, and therefore it is better that you start doing something else than waiting to be able to start mink production again. I think it would be most appropriate to the mink farmers, and I think that would be the sensible decision to make. And then there is a completely different discussion about animal welfare, but it is also important here. Because there are massive animal welfare problems in the mink industry. It is about mink being territorial animals moving over huge areas, and then you choose to put them in a tiny cage. It's about mink being semi-aquatic animals, which, after all, like to be in water, which swims, which hunts and has a very active life, and again they have to stand very close in these cages and have no chance of unfolding their natural behavior. And then they're solitary animals. Well, it's animals that in nature like to be alone, and then you put thousands of them very close together in some mink cages. We find that very problematic, and I have said this many times before. But it is also news that the Animal Health Council has made a statement on mink growing, which actually says quite clearly that the way we have had mink growing in Denmark is not ethically sound and that we cannot resume it ethically in a way similar to that we had before. Then there is a little disagreement about whether or not you can start doing it in a different way. But we certainly cannot do what we have done so far. So I think there's a lot of arguments for making this ban permanent. That is why, on behalf of the Socialist People's Party, we would urge the parties of the Danish Parliament, of course, to vote in favour of the extension of the temporary ban for health reasons, but also to consider whether we should not make a permanent ban now and be a little bit forward-looking rather than deceive the few mink growers who still want to re-start their production, in order to start up again in the foreseeable future, because I do not think that is realistic or ethically justifiable. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124028	Thank you. Mrs Lise Bech, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124031	Thank you. It was also to provoke that I said what I said. Because I would also like to hear the rapporteur make the statement about the unknown size of it covering from almost nothing to 100%. If the rapporteur had a wooden house, the fire authorities would also say: there is a risk of fire in the house being on fire of unknown size. So I would like the rapporteur to define the meaning of an unknown size.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124104	That's funny, because I also think it's strange to just focus on this theorem about a risk of unknown size. In isolation, I think it is true that it is a very weak quotation to pick out that does not say the big thing. It says there's gonna be a risk. We do not know how big it will be, but in the memo from the Statens Serum Institut they specifically mention the risk of new mutations, the risk that it may affect our ability to cope with the vaccinations we have. They mention the risk of being infected at the furry and mink farms. They mention the risk of the emergence of an infection reservoir, which could increase the number of infected people. So it's not just this thing with the unknown size. There's a lot of other things in this note. And I think you should look at the entire note instead of taking out a single sentence and then clinging to it a lot. I think there are plenty of arguments for extending the temporary ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124159	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124201	But is it not true that we should then have got them to find out how big crews you can handle? I know SF is against this, i.e. mink team at all, but the question is: how large do the crews have to be in order for the risk to be minimal? How big should the cages be? And how many mink farms could there be near each other? How far should the distance be between them? Can the rapporteur not say that we should have had a better basis here? Then I agree with the rapporteur when it comes to saying that it is actually sticking the few growers who, or those who would like to have mink again, blue in their eyes, know that we have this bill. It was supposed to be a completely different bill, because I do not see how we are getting minkback again. In other words, when we postpone it for another year, it is not going to happen I simply do not think so. I wish it did, but I agree with the rapporteur that we should have had another legislative proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124305	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124306	The last observations made by Mrs Lise Bech seem to me to be very interesting, and I am pleased that we share the analysis that we cannot see mink again in the near future. Should the veterinary authorities or veterinary experts have been asked to continue working on this? I do not think so, because we actually have a rather clear document from the SSI which describes that there is a risk of starting it up again. And I do not have a burning desire to investigate how, despite that warning, one might somehow restart some kind of mink production, because I do not think it should start up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124342	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124345	Thank you so much. I get a little discouraged when I hear that rapporteurs are asking questions to provoke such a serious public health issue. And it is not just about public health; it is also about business policy, about confidence in Denmark. I cannot help reading a quote from DI Business, where the director of Danish Industry, Lars Sørensen, says: "We call for a political majority to stand together to follow the recommendations of the health authorities and to adopt the law together. The quote is admittedly from an article from 9 November 2020, but my assessment is that if we just say that the health authorities' recommendation is that the risk is zero, as I understand that the Danish People's Party says we can go back and see the quote then confidence in Danish exports is seriously impaired. Does the rapporteur agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124448	At any rate, I agree that this was a very problematic statement by Mrs Lise Bech, but I can also hear that she is drawing a little bit ashore and that she now does not quite think that the risk is zero. It was both said here from the platform, when Mrs Lise Bech stood up here as rapporteur, but also when Mrs Lise Bech had the floor before for short remarks, and I am glad about that. But I think it should not be said that the risk is zero. That is untrue, and it makes no sense in relation to the note that is before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124510	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124511	I am very, very pleased that the rapporteur confirms that this debate, this issue, is far too important to provoke. It is also, I think, far too undignified in relation to mink growers. This matter must be treated with dignity, it must be dealt with objectively and it must be treated with respect. So I am really, really happy if the Danish People's Party withdraws their statement that we should just say that the health authorities' recommendation is that the risk is zero.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124540	Now it is a question for the SF and not so much for the Danish People's Party, and the Danish People's Party has already had the floor and cannot just take the floor again. Here you go to the rapporteur, if he will answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124552	I guess it was mostly just a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124555	Yeah, exactly, that's good, thanks for that. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124558	Thank you. I'm gonna sign for SF's honesty in this case. SF is against mink breeding and wants it banned, and SF has wanted it for a number of years. I do believe, however, that SF, since it was Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge with whom we had the discussion and with whom I had the discussion earlier, had a slightly more nuanced view of it, but don't worry about it. It's history writing. Does SF believe that the Folketing has been provided with the best possible basis for decision in this case? Does the SF believe that the government has provided the information that could allow the Folketing to make real political choices?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124643	I do not know whether you will say that you are in the best possible position, but I think you have what is necessary. There is a clear risk assessment from the Statens Serum Institute, from which I have sketched out all the elements, all the risks to those who work on furry on mink farms, the risk of contagious reservoirs, etc. It is clear that if you had a very burning desire, despite the warnings from SSI, to try to find a way to resume mink growing, you could have asked veterinary experts to look into it. I do not think it is relevant, because we have a black-and-white picture, that there is a risk to public health associated with it, and with all the other problems which are, moreover, with mink production, I do not see why funds should be used to investigate all possible ways of opening it up anyway. I don't think that makes any sense. So I really think we have what we need in order to make a decision here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124740	Here you go, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124743	I'll sign again for the honesty. Well, the SF has decided no matter what. That's fair enough. What does SF think of the principle of a government asking the Danish Veterinary Consortium to investigate how it can safely resume mink growing with effect from 1 January 2022 and that the order will then be cancelled? Does it leave the rapporteur with the impression that the government has taken care of and intended to ensure the best possible basis for decision for the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124820	I actually take it as if the government has looked at the warnings from the SSI, taken them very seriously and thought: it makes no sense to investigate the possibilities of opening up because we know that there is a risk to public health associated with it. That is why the plans that have otherwise been made to explore potential opportunities have been removed, and I think that makes good sense. Perhaps the veterinary experts should not have been asked in the first place because the SSI's basis is sufficient. We know that there is a risk to public health and that alone is ample reason not to reopen it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124850	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124854	Well, I would like to thank you for the sensible ethical views and considerations about it, because I think that should be included when discussing mink industries in Denmark and how it could possibly be if you allow it again. I would like to put a question a little further to the draft law, because there is a reference to the fact that there is a hibernation scheme that can be extended one year, but that is not a direct part of these legislative proposals, that is not what we are going to vote on, but SF has an influence on what to say about those corners. It says here that it is proposed that 60 million should be spent. kr., if you extend the hibernation scheme and, as I remember, there is an opportunity to extend a hibernation scheme one more year, but is it not a little waste of money, a waste of 60 million. kr., if you extend a hibernation scheme for a profession which has been completely abandoned? So I would like to hear the SF's position on this and would like to ask whether SF will not say no to the extension of the hibernation regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118124958	Now, of course, we need to have a discussion in the area of agreement among the parties that have been involved in the adoption of compensation, so I will not anticipate those negotiations by saying how it is going to be there. But it is clear that the Socialist People's Party has never thought that a hibernation system should be established, because we do not think that mink farmers should hibernate. We think they should stop producing mink. It is therefore not very obvious for us to extend a hibernation regime, which we are fundamentally opposed to. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125024	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125025	Yes, for a long time now there have been not so many parties against mink breeding, and now we are in a special situation. I listened to what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said earlier: I do not see that we are getting minkback again. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we should not jointly table an amendment to this bill that it is a permanent ban on which we will be voting as an amendment to this bill to ban mink growing for one more year only.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125053	Well, I'm going to think about that, but I think it makes sense to table it as an amendment to this, which is, of course, very specific about public health. However, there is no doubt that the SF wants a permanent ban, so if such a proposal is put forward, we will probably vote for it because we think we should have a permanent ban. Whether or not I think it makes sense just to table an amendment to this specific issue of public health is something that I will probably have to consider more and discuss with my parliamentary group if it is. Anyway, I'm at least signing off for the joint struggle we're having to ban mink growing permanently.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125123	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125150	Thank you for the floor. Zenia Stampe says hello. After all, more and more people are again being affected by corona, including people who have been vaccinated, and with these introductory remarks I would like to refer to this bill, which, of course, calls for the temporary ban on mink teams to be extended for another 1 year until 31 December 2022, as several have mentioned. The proposal is based on SSI's written risk assessment from 14 June. The risk assessment shows that mink teams may present a risk to human health of unknown size. That it says that the risk is unknown has been criticised by several parties for being imprecise. However, we in Radicals believe that SSI has a valid point when they state that they lack the necessary knowledge to carry out a more secure risk assessment, including experience with the duration of post-vaccination immunity, the effect of vaccination against new viral variants, the need for revaccination and seasonal variation in a partially vaccinated population. They will have experience of all this in these months, and SSI estimates that they will have a better knowledge base to carry out risk assessments during 2022. We look forward in this way to the SSI being able to carry out a more accurate risk assessment of mink teams during 2022, and we will propose in this respect that the risk assessment takes into account different scenarios for teams of mink, both because there may be different risks depending on housing systems, but also because the Dyreetic Council in its latest statement on mink teams states that a continuation of the current cage system would be unacceptable and that if mink production is to start up at all again, an alternative to the existing system should be developed. In the radical parliamentary group we have therefore also decided, at the request of the Animal Health Council, to take a new position on the mink team in spring 2022, i.e. whether we should introduce a permanent ban on mink teams, or whether we should restart mink production in one form or another. In this context, we will deal with SSI's renewed risk assessment on mink production, public health and the statements by the Animal Health Council on continued mink production. Finally, we want to make it clear that it is important that we keep this decision separate from what is being examined by the Mink Commission. This is no excuse for taking the risk lightly, whether there is a commission or not. We therefore look forward to following the experiences of the coming months, knowledge acquisition and risk assessment and the final position on the future of mink production in Denmark. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am taking a little off my seat every time the Left mentions that they want the truth to come out, because then it would actually suit the Left that they actually voted in favour of a full roll-back of the blackout law. In those words, Radicals can say that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125533	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125537	I will not ask you anything very technical, because I know that it is not the usual rapporteur who is here. I just wanted to know why it is that the radical parliamentary group is thinking that a permanent ban will be discussed in spring 2022. I have heard it before from Mrs Zenia Stampe, but it was based on the fact that the Animal Ethics Council's report would probably come a little later. But it has come now, and its clear conclusions have also just been made by the rapporteur here. So why not take a position now so that we can give a clear message if we can potentially secure a majority for a permanent ban on mink breeding? Wouldn't it be better if the radical parliamentary group talked about it at a group meeting next week? I don't see what it is that has to wait until spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125619	Thank you for the question. Well, I think it is a great idea that we are constantly discussing this very, very important issue, which is also very much about animal ethics and where there is a huge need for us to have a discussion about the issue. Because, as the author has said, mink has swimming skin, and that clearly indicates that they should not, of course, be in a cage. Well, there are some very, very big challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125655	Thank you. Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125658	Thank you for those comments. I am very pleased that the rapporteur says that animals like mink should not, of course, sit in a cage and that ideas will be taken forward to the group. I think that's good words, so thank you for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125709	Thank you. I do not think there were any brief comments. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118125723	It's a bill that forbids teams of mink one more year. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that we should adopt a permanent ban instead. The draft law refers only to the health risks that exist if you want to allow mink growing again, but you do not relate to animal ethics. Now it is the one sentence that says that it is the Statens Serum Institut's general assessment that teams of mink in Denmark after 2021 can lead to a health risk for people of unknown size that has been highlighted here in the debate. So it is after 2021, so we could actually adopt a permanent ban on the basis of the recommendations that have been made. The one sentence, which is imprecise, becomes the more precise if you read the three points that are before that sentence. It says as a start to them that the restoration of mink teams could in principle lead to three types of risks for people, and then they are outlined: a occupational risk in the form of breakthrough infections for exposed employees in the re-established mink business, including furry. And next, an infection reservoir that may give rise to additional social infection among non-vaccined persons, people who have not responded adequately to the vaccine... and possibly. persons who have decreased immunity after vaccination. ▪ Third: Finally, several variants of SARS-CoV-2 can occur in society, with the likelihood of new variants directly linked to the extent of virus replication in the hosts being infected. This may, in the worst cases, affect the possibility of preventing covid-19 with the existing human vaccines. It is, in fact, the three points that stand before the slightly imprecise phrase comes about a health risk for people of unknown size. If I was faced with something that had a health risk for people of unknown size, I guess that's not exactly where you want to experiment a lot. I really think that the imprecise phrase is a deterrent. It has been requested that we should have a new and updated opinion from the Statens Serum Institut, also before the Radical Left can make a final decision. We've got an oral update on this medical assessment. It was then at a time when one could well have gone a little deeper into what the corona variants that have been seen and which are more contagious, for example. The delta variant is of importance for the overall health assessment. I don't know that as a politician, but I really would like to get something written about it. The bill refers to the fact that there may be a hibernation system that continues. I think it would be a waste of 60 million. kr., if it is the case that other parties choose to extend the hibernation scheme when the compensation agreement provides for an extension of one year. It's a waste of $60 million. kr. There is no reference in the bill to animal ethics anywhere. For Enhedslisten, this is a very important aspect. Now we have seen that the Animal Health Council has made a statement in which they have been able to assess mink production, and the conclusion says, among other things. on the question of whether mink production in its existing form is acceptable to animal welfare: • Although the Council considers that the welfare of the minks in some areas may be acceptable, the Council considers overall that keeping mink in existing cages with such limited freedom of movement and having sufficient enrichment facilities is not acceptable. Imagine such a hibernation system, which, like an indication that there is an existing profession that can resurrect and use the same cages, has the same wretched conditions with small cages for an animal that is not doomed is thus totally unacceptable. So these are my words and not the words in the papers. I think it is thought-provoking that one has a mink production where, through a breeding work, one has not come to the conclusion that the minks have more than one litter per year. That's because it's not a dominated animal. After all, it is not like the pig who can have pups all the time if it is fed enough. The minks have a team of kids a year because they're wild animals. I think that these recommendations from the Animal Ethnic Council are worth taking into account. The Enhedslisten is in favour of the proposal to extend it one year, and we are also in favour of a permanent ban on mink teams.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118130234	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118130249	Thank you. Last year, the government decided illegally and unconstitutional to kill all minks in Denmark. After the slaughter had taken place, it passed a law prohibiting mink teams until the end of 2021. This bill we are discussing here will extend the ban until the end of 2022. The decision was made together with the left wing based on a so-called health assessment by the Statens Serum Institut. It considers that there is a risk of unknown size. There is also a risk of unknown size when I walk out my front door in the morning. It was also stressed in the education that there is a need for an assessment of the risk to human health alone, not proposals for possible solutions. Imagine, the government specifically asked not to assess solutions that would enable production to start again, for example. the population would be much smaller than before, vaccines, etc. It is quite clear that the government had decided which answer they wanted. Why else would solutions be specifically rejected? It's just one of many examples of how indifferent you are to the mink industry. The only thing that seems to matter to the government is to maintain the notion that mink is terribly dangerous in order to better defend the illegal acts of the government last year. What would it look like if you allowed the mink team next year? It could damage the credibility of the government if there's something left of it. New citizens cannot therefore vote in favour of L 81.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118130431	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance or the Free Greens or the KD, and then we give the floor to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118130454	First of all, thank you for the debate on the legislative proposal. As you know, the purpose of the bill is to extend the temporary prohibition on mink teams until 31 December 2022. The extension of the ban is necessary in the interests of public health and must prevent the spread of covid-19 in mink and between mink and human beings. Last year we were in the middle of a coronapandemic, which spread like a steppe fire not only between people, but in Denmark we also saw that mink herds were cut with covid-19, and it went fast. That went very fast. At the beginning of September there were 19 infected mink herds, 45 infected mink herds by the beginning of October, and by the beginning of November the figure had grown to 225 infected mink herds. Even though we tried to contain the infection, it continued to spread in mink and to humans. When it looked worst in North Jutland, it was approx. 60% of all positive corona responses related to mink. The State's Serum Institute then estimated that mink teams in Denmark could, at worst, threaten the effects of the vaccines in which the whole world had put its trust to bring us through the pandemic. Minksmite was also a serious threat to public health. That's why it was decided to kill all minks. In its medical assessment from June of this year, the Statens Serum Institute estimates that there may be a risk of new covid-19 variants emerging which, in the worst cases, may affect the possibility of preventing covid-19 with the existing human vaccines. On 28 September 2021, the State Serum Institute confirmed that the conclusions of the risk assessment of 14 June 2021 remain valid. Here the Statens Serum Institut specifically mentions that the Institute needs knowledge about how covid-19 develops over the winter in order to assess whether the human vaccine strategy is working. Right now there is an increasing infection in society, and this is happening despite the vaccine strategy. The last few weeks have been between 2,000 and 3,000 a day, and the number of inmates is increasing at an alarming rate. Covid-19 is again a social-critical disease, the Corona Pass has been reinstated, and we have had to impose restrictions on restaurants, cinemas and museums. So the Coronat rush is not just a theoretical one. It seems to me that it underlines that the Statens Serum Institute needs to see developments over the winter. When the winter period is over, the health authorities will have a better basis for assessing whether it will be safe and realistic to resume mink production in Denmark in 2023 on the basis of public health considerations. The Government therefore proposes that the ban on mink teams be extended by one year until there is a greater knowledge and experience to make a lasting and secure decision. This also means that we need to look at an extension of the hibernation compensation scheme. The government wants to extend the scheme. That is why I have invited the parties to the agreement to discuss it. It is important that we can get the economics in place for the growers who choose to have their mink production dormant in 2022. The extension of the sleep compensation scheme is within the overall framework of approx. 19 billion. kr. in the compensation agreement. Finally, I would like to point out that this draft law ensures two things at the same time. Firstly, we do not compromise with public health, and secondly, we make it possible to adopt a position on the resumption of mink growing once we have gained more knowledge and experience of the covid-19 pandemic over the autumn and winter months. With these words, I look forward to the committee reading of the draft law and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131008	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131012	I look forward to having next year's conclusion somewhat earlier than in mid-November. I actually think you owe a lot of people that. So I would really like to hear if the Minister could say a little more precisely when it is that in 2022 we will have to draw the conclusion that we might have a permanent ban on mink growing in Denmark, so that we will not end up with such a thing as a little pressure here in November. We have to adopt the draft law here relatively quickly in relation to the profession; we must actually adopt it by 1 December. When you look at this health assessment, which is there, I really think that the phrase about the health risk of unknown size for humans is folded out quite well in the overall document: that is, that which infects the environment is a risk. From the historical experience of North Jutland it can be said that this is a risk. Does the Minister think that that risk has completely disappeared when we come six months further forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131118	It is quite true that the Statens Serum Institute has described in detail that there is this risk of infection. That is why, to put it mildly, it is also unfortunate that we should hear from the platform some talk about the risk being zero. We have been sitting at a meeting where all parties have been invited and where we have been told by the supreme authorities in society what the risk is. It's alarming. This is how you have to take this seriously, and we do. What they then say to us from SSI is that when we are on the other side of the winter months, we have a better picture of how the general situation is with covid-19. And on that basis we can then assess how risky it will be to have mink production again. That is why we have to go to spring or early summer before we can decide what we are doing in the future. Hopefully, we will get through this in a sensible way, so that there is no risk anymore, so that we can give the message to the minkkeepers that they can start up again. But it's too early to say anything about it... we don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131243	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131244	The SSI's assessment here is from 14 June... it was before the delta variant spread in Denmark... and it says: "The experience from 2020 shows that SARS-CoV-2 was able to mutate in mink and that the new variants were able to infect people both close to mink (minc workers), but also further in society. It was therefore the experience of June before we gained experience with the contagious delta variant. Can the Minister not see that it must be difficult to avoid writing something that is deeply alarming when we come six months further forward? The Corona is not something that we have in full control of. Can the Minister not see that we are in a situation where the permanent ban is just in front of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131325	I admit that it was rather serious what we were told from the SSI, when all the parties in the Folketing were invited to a meeting and went through this. It is also against this background that we have chosen to make a 1-year extension. However, as we have said over and over again on the part of the government, we have nothing in principle against mink growing. Our position has been that if there was a risk of infection, we had to have a temporary ban. When there is no risk of infection anymore, we are ready to open up again, and we stand by that. There we could understand from the SSI that they believe that once we have come through the winter months, they have a better starting point for a new assessment of the risk of infection; and we are waiting for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131410	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131413	Thank you. In May, the Danish Veterinary Consortium asked for suggestions on how to safely resume mink growing with effect from 1 January 2022. Why was that order cancelled, and who was behind that cancellation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131435-2	What is happening is that the Danish Food Authority unsolicitedly decides to order this assessment. There it is as well as I understand that the health authorities have the view that what is the main thing here is human health. So it is their opinion that asking DK-VET is irrelevant and therefore there is communication between the two authorities where this decision is made. In the questions that have been put to others, I have heard that it has been suggested that this is something that the government is behind or even the Social Democratic Party is behind. I don't know anything about that. I have not made a decision; I have not ordered anything from anyone. It is the authorities who have done this work. I think that if we had interfered with it, we would probably have been criticised for it too. So we haven't ordered or canceled anything from the government. And I, as Minister, have certainly not done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131548	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131549	I think that during the committee's work we will be spending some time on what has actually happened so that we can get more information about what is behind it. But does the Minister believe that it would be helpful for a decision to ask the Danish Veterinary Consortium how to properly resume the mink industry in Denmark? For the question is: Is there any risk, yes or no? And there's the answer given in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131640	What we understand from the health authorities is that the main thing for them has been humane health. So this is the first step. And it's not like they're just saying that the risk is unknown. Well, it's like Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen was inside the folded out much more. This was also the case in the meeting where all the parties were invited and where you wanted to hear: what is the risk here? And the answer was: there is a considerable risk here. When it is that one gets to where one can estimate that the risk is much less or completely gone, it makes great sense to try to examine how one then provides a basis for decision-making so that the possibly smaller amount of risk that is can be handled in a sensible way. And there it will make sense to involve the veterinary authorities. At least that is how I understand the reasoning of the authorities who have been working on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131736	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131736-2	Thank you. I just want to hear the Minister's own risk assessment in 2023. Because when we hear from the authorities that there is a risk that there may again be an infection reservoir, that there is a risk that new mutations may occur in production, that there is a risk that employees may be infected on mink farms and furry farms, and that there is a risk that the new varieties, for example, will be present. The delta variant, can spread even more violently in mink production, is it not likely that when we stand next year and have to discuss this again, SSI will say: In 2023 will there also be a risk of restarting? And if you have the analysis that is my analysis, would it not be more honest to say now that it makes sense to permanently shut down the mink, because we do not see a future for us where it can start up again within a few years?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131832	I respect that, of course, when the Socialist People's Party asks for my personal opinion. The fact is that I am a minister, and that is why I have to lean on what the officials say, and I think it would be quite inappropriate if I started to make my own assessment here from Parliament's platform. Well, I don't have the professional prerequisite for speaking in this field. We have officials for that. As a minister and the government, I have leaned all the way through to what the authorities have assessed in relation to the risk. That's how it must be. We can make political decisions, and we have done so in this area too, but we need to lean on what experts and authorities say. It doesn't make sense for us to start making our own pocket philosophies or our own personal assessments. That's not gonna work. It's government officials who make these assessments. That's the way it has to be. I'm sorry, but that's the honest announcement from here. I understand the interest in botanizing what I might think personally. I have a responsibility here, and that is why I, as a minister in the country, have to lean on what the officials say.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131951	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118131952	But I am not saying that the Minister should not lean on what the authorities say. Of course the Minister will. It is quite obvious that we must listen to the authorities, but a minister must also have an analysis of what can happen in the future, and a minister must consider what might happen a little further in the future than a single year. We also had a long debate up to the mass killing of these minks, where we were some who had the opinion that this could go very, very wrong. We also leaned on the authorities' assessment there, but we also had our own analysis. So I think it might be appropriate to hear the Minister's assessment, but at least I look forward to the discussion we will have next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132031	With precisely the starting point of leaning on what the officials think, I had called a meeting in which all parties were invited. Carl Valentin also participated. Here we heard the SSI say that there was still a risk of unknown size, and this whole thing about how it can develop is so unfolded, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen has mentioned. And then they say that we need to look at what happens over the winter to assess what the general situation is with regard to covid-19, and that, on the basis of it, they can come up with an assessment of how it fits in with mink. So my analysis goes as far as to refer to what we were told by the officials at a meeting where Mr. Carl Valentin himself attended.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132119	Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132120	Thank you. I just want to ask you one thing. The minister says regularly he did it last week, too, with the fact that it was very serious and that 60%. was because of the mink variant and stuff. I just wanted to ask how many samples had been taken? And how many were sequenced? And in how many of them was the mink variant?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132148	What I am referring to is what the authorities have informed me. And they talk about that in the 3 weeks when it looked worst in North Jutland, it was 60%. of those found infected with corona where it was related to mink. I find that alarming. It's something I take seriously. In relation to more details about the number of tests and other tests, Mrs Lise Bech is welcome to ask me written questions, and I will try to answer them. These aren't numbers that I just have on hand. But I can hear that there are officials who have talked about this being serious, and I think we should listen to that. It's my approach to this listening to those who are specifically trained to advise us. There I do not think it is my job to stand on the platform and throw personal assessments around me. That is why I was really, really sorry that Mrs Lise Bech was told from the platform that the risk was zero. I think it was totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132251	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132252	That's not quite what I said. I said that when you say that the risk is unknown, the risk can be from 0 per cent. and up to 100%. Then I would like to say that, last year, I actually asked the Minister for Health about this. And there I was told that in week 42, when the figure was highest 60 percent.; it is true that 45 samples were sequenced out of those infected throughout North Jutland, and in the 27 samples it was the mink variant. Well, we should also be careful that we don't talk this up. Covid-19 is serious, but we must also be careful that we do not just talk it out to talk it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132332	First of all, I am pleased that Mrs Lise Bech is getting a little pulled ashore in relation to the rather inappropriate announcement that there was no risk. You can go in to see the video clip where Mrs Lise Bech says so. Then there's that in relation to the number of these samples. In other words, when you try to look at those who have been exposed to corona at the very worst we can mention our former Foreign Minister Uffe Ellemann-Jensen or our fellow parliamentarian Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt is the severe symptoms you have. Forty-five people who potentially suffer from this are too much, after all, it's violent. I do not understand why the Danish People's Party and Mrs Lise Bech take it so lightly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132419	Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132421	Thank you. When the SSI was asked for a medical assessment, why was it specifically asked for them not to offer solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132432	There's a little in there, sir. Peter Seier Christensen asked that this is a choice that I have been making, and I also tried to do something about it when I answered Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. It's the authorities talking about how to do this the right way. There are our top experts, who are specifically trained for this, who assess how we deal with this, and there it has been the case that the health authorities have considered that the right order was to look at human health first to see what the risk was, and then wait to take the next step until the risk was less. That's what I understand. It's not something I've gotten involved in. As I said, I didn't order or cancel anything. It is not a position I have taken as a minister that I have kept my distance from. It is the authorities who have handled it, and that is how it should be. It would be quite unreasonable for me, as Minister, to be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132530	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132533	Well, that must necessarily have an impact on human health and also on how the mink team is carried out, i.e. on how many animals there are. That is why we were asked at the meeting to which the Minister refers whether that assessment could be made, and the Minister said that there was unfortunately no time for us to do so. So the Minister has been open to the fact that it might be interesting to have that study done, but it could not be done in time at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132600	When we had this meeting, where SSI was invited to give us the updated risk assessment, they said that when we have a better picture on the other side of the winter months of how developments in the whole covid-19 area are, it may make sense to consider how we might start up again. And that is quite right, as Mr. Peter Seier Christensen says that it will make sense to have a veterinary assessment as well, and we will, of course, get to grips with this when the authorities are, as it were, saying that this is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132635	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132650	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur. It's sir. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118132713	Thank you, President. After all, the bill we are debating now is a consequence of, and is about to implement, the agreement we have made widely in the Folketing with a great many parties, to secure high schools, where we go to school with people who are not similar to ourselves, where we have mixed up the composition of pupils, and where we make up and take steps to counteract the polarisation we have unfortunately seen in many high schools, not least in the larger cities. It is also in that agreement that we ensure that there are also high schools for those who live in the thinner populated areas, and this is a very good agreement that we made before the summer. In this proposal, there are some specific points that we are going to address. Firstly, we are extending the opportunity that has been available for the last few years to make local pupil distributions by one more year, because the new agreement cannot enter into force at the next school year and therefore we need to extend the transitional arrangements that we have right now. In addition, the proposal here is to abolish waiting lists and limit the possibility of switching between high schools. It has to be seen in the context of the fact that, in the present situation, there are a great many high schools which have used the waiting lists as part of the competition that exists to, if it is to be said, go on the ass and snatch pupils apart. Of course, there must be the possibility of changing high school if you move or if you do not thrive, but it is such things that have to decide it, and not what kind of high school is currently popular. We are now removing waiting lists in order to also reduce competition and encourage more cooperation between the institutions rather than competition. It is, of course, important to say that one can easily change the direction of education from Stx to a commercial college or otherwise change if one wants to go on another education. Then there's an element around the private high schools, and it's a little important to dwell on it. I'm sure some people will be worried about what this is about. In fact, we have agreed that the agreement we have made on the distribution of pupils should not mean anything to the private colleges that may be. That is why we have said that we should just look at what the student base has been in private secondary schools, and that is also what it can be in the years to come, so that we ensure that this agreement leads to neither more nor fewer people going to private secondary schools, and I think that is really a sound principle, because the agreement does not deal with private ones. Finally, there is the element of giving some schools, which have been particularly challenged on the composition of pupils, a fresh start, where we simply allow you, even if you have a vintage where you do not take up pupils, to still get the resources away, so that you can use the additional teaching forces, which are not then bound by the teaching you would otherwise have had, to create the transformation, the good new culture, the things you locally think are quite right, in order to actually be able to put heavily from the land when you enter the new system of student distribution and a more mixed pupil composition. So I think it's a good deal we made this summer. I think it is important that we tackle this, and with this bill it is at least the first four concrete steps, and of course we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133041	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133045	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. One of the things I was just referring to in the Socialist rapporteur's speech was that this has no impact on private secondary schools, and I would like the rapporteur to confirm that again from the platform. I can at least say that I will also be asking some questions here between the first and second readings, because there are also private colleges which are concerned about the ceiling being imposed. So can the rapporteur say again with a guarantee that this will not have any consequences for private high schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133128	What I think is that we are starting from the year in which we have the most pupils out of the last few years, and that it is, as it were, the ceiling, and that is why we have seen an opportunity to drive on, not only if we had an exceptionally low take-up last year, but to continue on the basis of the size we have had over the last few years. That is what I mean by that should not mean that private high schools are up or down. It is true, then, that some specific inquiries have been made by some newly started high schools, and we have discussed this in the circle and have said that the Minister must, of course, set up a scheme there, so that for high schools, such as for example. is just the start-up, and who needs more limited growth to be sustainable, must be an opportunity for it within this. And if that is what Mrs Anni Matthiesen is referring to, then I am sure we have received the same requests, and that is something that will be dealt with and dealt with in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133222	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133223	Thank you. I am also familiar with those enquiries, but let me ask you more specifically: if you like. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I mean, how would you deal with such a situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133252	I am a little bit unsure about what the questioner is asking. But what we're saying here is about the existing private high schools. There are not very many, and that is why we have also said that this agreement is not intended to do either from or through to them. In relation to the existing schools, you look at how big they are now and have been over the last few years, and then you say that they can also be so large in the years to come, as well as ensuring that you do not have a large migration to the private colleges or the opposite. Then there is the question of how to deal with newly started high schools, which need just to grow a little more in order to be sustainable, and we would like to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133332	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133334	Thank you so much. That is a little in line with what my colleague from the Left says here. In other words, there is a very concerned hearing response from Danish private schools, primary schools and colleges. It's just this time frame thing, but it's also a question of why you have to have this ceiling on students going to private high schools. In fact, it is quite clear in the answer that it is a question of avoiding those who are subject to this forced distribution from private high schools. So we simply want to avoid people using their free choice and going to those high schools. Can the rapporteur put a few more words on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133424-2	We have made an agreement that ensures a more mixed composition of pupils and thus a better cohesion, some more balanced schools, some colleges, all of which have a good chance of succeeding and of having a good and healthy youth environment, and of course we stand by that. Then we have said that there is a discussion about private secondary schools which are not included, because they do not accept the same way or are awarded to pupils in the same way, but choose them for themselves. And there we have asked: how do we keep them out of this discussion as far as possible and say that it should not mean either one thing or the other, neither positive nor negative, for private high schools? That is why they have so far been withdrawn from the agreement, but that is also why it has been said that private colleges should also have the opportunity to have the size, the extent, the business and you want the training activity that they have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133515	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133516	Okay, thanks for that. It is not exactly something that promotes free elections on the contrary. I would also just like to hear very low-practically that I have asked the rapporteur a few times before, when we have spoken about the compulsory distribution of pupils, whether there could be no empirical basis for it to really make a difference, because now you talk a lot into this with a mixed composition of pupils, etc., but are there any concrete studies, some concrete proposals, or what? Because everything I've been able to find about it actually speaks against it. It's not something that benefits any of the students. So why is it that you're running this ideological crusade to make this forced distribution when there seems to be no evidence that it works?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133553	First to the political: Yes, we actually believe that it is a quality to meet across different backgrounds and go to school with some who do not look like oneself. This means making friends from other social groups, other layers, and it also increases both coherence and understanding across society. Speaking of ideological crusades, I just have to arrest it that the rapporteur keeps calling this forced division. In the model we have made, you can want a number of high schools to be four in practical terms and then you get one of your wishes fulfilled. It has nothing to do with forced distribution. On the contrary, it is to respect the young person, and the first thing to be sorted out is: what high school does the young person want to go to? This is the first criterion one even looks at when distributing in relation to the new student distribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133642	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133644	I would just like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with me that when a ceiling is set for private schools, it is primarily to prevent schools that are characterised by a foreign and often Muslim culture from growing uninhibited, at the moment this pupil-sharing mechanism sets in, and thus will make it difficult to make it impossible for strangers, and it is mainly Muslim pupils to gather in schools that are then dominated by a Middle Eastern culture. Does the rapporteur agree with me that this is one of the things that will be achieved by setting a ceiling on admission to private secondary schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133724	Perhaps I am pleased with the final clarification. Because it can be said that when we say that we think we should have mixed secondary schools and upper secondary education and that it is a quality to have upper secondary education in balance with mixed pupil composition, it is of course true that when you have a private and otherwise well functioning private sector, it should not be the case that you can continue to have vicious student compositions just by setting them up under private auspices. And in this way, the rapporteur is right to say that when we say that the private high schools that exist today should be given the opportunity to exist, it is not the intention, if we may say so, to abandon the fact that we had a vicious high school and to make one's own gibberish gymnasium. And that's pretty much true, whatever it is you're fucked up about. But we want mixed student composition all over the place, don't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133811	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133812	It is a bit comical that the word Middle Eastern culture or Islamic culture is not to be used, because I think that is what this is all about. •Fight can mean a lot, e.g. something with degrees and geometry etc. It is an immigration which has caused a large number of foreigners who do not want to become part of the Danish culture and then isolate themselves in some schools. And what I think is festive in this debate was just to hear New Citizens stand and argue that one should give free space for more and more Muslim schools to come so that Denmark can become more Muslim. I just thought I had to ask the rapporteur to clarify that this is actually what is being fought with this agreement. So New Citizens should, of course, support it if they can put two and two together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133857	Thank you. Yes, we also find it problematic if you have very misguided mixed schools, even if they are Muslim private colleges. That is a general view. I do not think we necessarily agree entirely that the problems also exist elsewhere. But, of course, for us, it is important that we get mixed student compositions in all schools and that we should not have the opportunity, then you just move your biased composition somewhere else in the private world and thereby undermine the opportunity that we now have to actually create more mixed student compositions and better cross-relationships.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133936	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118133952	Thank you for that, President. How much do we have to get involved in the Danes' lives? I think we should remember that question once in a while, perhaps, to ask ourselves in this Chamber. Every day we make decisions that go far into the lives of our citizens, as when the government and the other support parties, for example, help determine which high school our young people should go to. They have concluded an agreement to limit the free choice of upper secondary education in large cities. Instead, it is now going to force the pupils to be allocated from the school year 2022-2020. We in the Left are not included in that agreement, and we are not, because we do not want to restrict the free choice of our young people as much as this agreement provides. And because we do not actually believe that enough is being done to help the high schools in the sparsely populated parts of our country. Instead, we believe that our young people are also able to choose their education themselves. It is crucial that you have an influence on making such an important decision as where you would like to have your youth education. The government and the other parties to the agreement mean by the model that they should now help to choose on behalf of our young people. One of the things that I am particularly sorry about here is that we need to get some information on how the model will actually work. I do not think it is right for us to deal with a legislative proposal in which we cannot tell the young people what real significance this will have. There is no transparency in relation to how many young people this is going to be about. How far will they have to go to another education? How many of their upper secondary educations nearby will they have to pass, for that matter, to be placed in another youth education? All in all, we on the Left believe that with the model here and I know that this is only the first step, and that the big bill itself will only come in 2022 that you remove too much of the free choice and make too much of the forced distribution. Then I have also promised to greet the Conservative People's Party and say that they, like the Left, are going to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134243	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134247	Thank you. The rapporteur speaks a lot about forced distribution, and so I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not recognise that we also have pupil distribution today, or does the rapporteur think that there is a completely free choice for pupils in Denmark today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134302	It is the case that I am aware that not everyone today, unfortunately, will have their first wish fulfilled. I just think you go too far here. I simply think that it is going to hit too many young people who are simply being forced to take advantage of something that they do not really want. And I can also be worried about what really happens when you use this model. Well, how many of these young people are actually gonna try to bypass these rules? How many people will actually try to change their address to avoid getting into this situation? And what are we going to do about young people who, frankly speaking, say no to being admitted to the place where they are forcibly allocated?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134346	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134347	But we are doing the same as we are doing with the young people who are being forced into it today, that is to say, that we have some distribution committees that will find a solution to it. Now we do it with an algorithm instead. The rapporteur says that you want to change your address or all sorts of other things, but that is exactly what the students are doing today. In the metropolitan area there are 17 per cent. of the pupils who do not choose the first priority they really want, because they still live so far away from school that they know that it is not realistic for them to have it. Because if you want to go to Rysensteen Gymnasium, you have to live in a radius of 500 m to the school, to have a chance to get in at all, and it is only the very richest people who can afford an apartment in the inner city. So this gives more to the rapporteur. Can't the rapporteur see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134430	No, I can't. I fully agree that, unfortunately, there are some today who cannot have their first wish met and may thus have to take their second priority. But I am quite sure that the model here is going to be forced to distribute more young people than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134449	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134451	I am just wondering why the rapporteur of a party that is strong in rural areas and has very often spoken of wanting to maintain high schools in rural areas does not want to be a part of it anyway. What is it that makes the Left no longer see that it is a good idea to preserve the small high schools in the countryside? Why has that view been abandoned? And why will you not be involved in carrying it out? I understand that there is less interest in, or perhaps less interest in, ensuring that Danish pupils do not fall into the minority in Islamic dominated high schools in the big cities, but the small rural gymnasiums should then be taken care of and taken responsibility for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134539	I can assure the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that we have not left that view in the Left. In fact, we think it is important to make a great deal of effort in terms of maintaining education in rural areas as well. But there's a lot of this model that we can't see ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134557	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134559	I just think it's an empty blow to the air if you say you want to do it, but then you don't do it when there's a chance to do something. I think that's pathetic. But I also think it is a pity that the Left will not help to defend that Danes should never be able to come into a minority at a Danish high school. Why is it that students with foreign cultural backgrounds, Muslim students, in the big cities, do not want to be forced into a minority in a Danish high school? I simply do not understand that. Is it not in favour of old-fashioned, sensible Danish culture in the Left any longer?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134644	Yes, we do. Now we have to see when this is put into effect by the government and the parties that support it. But, unfortunately, I believe that the model here is going to hit a great many young people who are simply in danger of being forced to perhaps go to a high school far away from their homes, which they simply do not want to go on. That is why I simply think that too many young people are being hit because they want to solve this problem. I think there could be other options.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134720	Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134723	I wonder, in line with Mrs Krarup, that it should now be a problem for the Left that we are now trying to regulate the access to high schools in order to secure the smaller secondary schools. I was rather unclear in the rapporteur's reply as to whether the rapporteur agrees with that part of the draft law or whether the rapporteur does not agree with it. Something else I would like to hear the rapporteur's comment on is: does the Left not think that there is a problem that there is a lack of diversity in the composition of pupils in very many high schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134759	Now I'm going to do sir. Jakob Silverhøj notes that it is not the model itself that we are dealing with right now and here. That is not the bill we are in the Chamber now. It'll probably come as I see it in the spring. Then, in relation to the part about supporting the rural gymnasiums, I can say that we in the Left have always stood for this is extremely important. We continue to do so. So we have not changed our attitude there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134826	Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134826-2	I am aware of what kind of proposal we are dealing with. It was the rapporteur himself who brought it up. In other words, in relation to the proposal on schools in rural areas, we have no problem. There are no objections from the Left. What, then, does the Left have objections to in relation to diversity? Does the Left not think that we need to do something to solve the problem of the lack of diversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134852-2	We clearly believe that we must tackle this problem. We fully agree with that. Where I can just see a huge challenge in the model here is that in the way you have screwed it up, you will hit hundreds, yes, thousands of young people in the largest cities. They are, frankly, forced into high schools that they may not want to go to. So I have to say that I am going to follow this closely in relation to how the young people and their parents react to the fact that they no longer have a free choice in the big cities. We're worried about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134933	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118134948	Thank you for the floor. L 68 is, in a sense, a preparatory law for us to adopt the draft law on pupil distribution, that is, the new algorithm to distribute pupils in a new way, so that we avoid schools dominated by a foreign culture in the big cities and so that we can make sure that the small rural gymnasiums survive. Both are very important. In any case, we would have had to do this with rural areas, but the part about sharing out in large cities is the consequence of a long-standing irresponsible immigration policy, which has made us have a large number of people, pupils who have not really become Danish and who do not want to become Danish, but want to concentrate on high schools so that they can cultivate or pursue their own cultural standards, which they know from their private homes, where their parents have not become involved in Danish culture. And it is clear that we cannot live with Danish high schools in Denmark dominated by a Middle Eastern culture and from which Danish children then flee, and then they use free secondary school elections to escape from high schools, which have been dominated by people from the Muslim or Middle Eastern world because of free secondary school elections. So, of course, we have to somehow stop this evil spiral, and of course the Danish People's Party has supported this, because it is no use having to accept a development where Danish students can fall into a minority in Danish high schools, we cannot under any circumstances participate in that. That is why we are pleased that the agreement includes the parts that we are going to deal with today, precisely stopping admission to places where there is too high a proportion of foreign pupils, so that we can clearly stop and say that we are starting afresh. All parents and future students in the local areas will realise that now the high school is starting to start a new one, so we do not need to use our so-called free choice, because it has not been quite free today either, to escape from the high school where we risk going into classes that are dominated by people who are not Danish. Now you can safely choose the local high school. I think that is very important. To make it work, we need to set a ceiling on private high schools. I would like to see us capping private Muslim high schools first and foremost, because they are the ones involved. The others are less important in my opinion because they do not hamper integration, but private Muslim colleges do, as well as the fact that the high schools dominated by Middle Eastern culture and thereby indirectly displace Danish pupils are of course also a problem. However, when it comes to private high schools, I am concerned about a newly launched high school from which we have been approached and which I believe we should deal with in the form of an amendment, and I hope that will come to the law so that we can ensure that the newly started Christian high school does not get into trouble. In the Danish People's Party we think it is necessary to support the new high school agreement and thus also this aid legislation, simply to avoid Danish secondary schools slowly becoming less Danish, because we cannot live with that under any circumstances, so we support this law and also the agreement that is behind it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118135403	You're welcome. There is a brief comment, and I am pleased to give the floor to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118135409	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Can the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party confirm that this bill will not prevent any organizational school development among private secondary schools? I am thinking in this context of whether we continue to have no problems, for example. would be able to merge two private colleges without adversely affecting them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118135438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118135445	It's too technical for me to answer it directly. What this is about must be taken in concrete terms. The reason why we think that a ceiling has to be placed on private high schools is that Muslim pupils have used free school elections to gather in schools that have then become Muslim dominated. If, instead of using public high schools, they start to use private high schools, we are equal. Then there will be no integration. That is why it is clear that the Muslim private colleges we already have cannot allow us to expand wildly if that pressure should come. The fact that legislation cannot then be directly targeted at them means that there will also be a ceiling elsewhere. We are not interested in that, but unfortunately we have to include it in the package, and that is also temporary, so only when the agreement is being phased in, and that is a reasonable ceiling. But the question of whether it is going to hit two Danish high schools that have merged is too technical for me to answer it. And if you can make some exceptions, maybe I don't know how to fix it by practical means.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118135551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118135552	Good. I shall then put some written questions on this to the Minister, so that we can get it in writing as well. Can the rapporteur give some explanation as to why, for example, it is necessary to give the reasons for this? has chosen to take both Køge Gymnasium, but actually Roskilde Gymnasium out of this distribution group? Is there not a danger that we will not actually achieve what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party actually says we want to achieve? So, don't you leave the Western region on the platform to say it directly, by pulling out some other high schools as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118135629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118135632	It is clear that you have to look at it and follow it very, very closely and be ready to change in these limits if necessary. This cannot be avoided, but I hope that it will have a great effect that the students who are in the area will be spread out in schools instead of being able to lump themselves together and thus crowd out those pupils who do not want to be in a Middle Eastern culture. But it is true that the larger the area you have, the easier it will be, but then the price is also that some will have to go further away, and it can quickly be too high a price. So it's a balance. I hope this works. If it doesn't, you have to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118135724	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no further brief comments, and that is why I would like to welcome Mrs Carøe from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118135734	Thank you. This summer we landed the agreement on student distribution in the high schools, and I and the rest of the SF were both happy and proud of the agreement, because it was absolutely crucial that we found a new model for student distribution. It was because, of course, we have to keep our hands on the high schools that have been closed, so that we can secure upper secondary education throughout the country, also in the future, with falling adolescences, and also to meet people who do not look like you, at the educational institution that you go to in Denmark. For now it is no longer a question of having the lowest postal code in order to enter the most sought-after high schools in Copenhagen, and we ensure that our young people do not crawl together according to socio-economics or culture, but rather commit themselves in diverse environments that reflect the society in which they live. So, yes, in SF, we're happy and very happy with this deal. Now that we are here today, it is because it is just a year before the algorithm is in place and the agreement can enter into force, but the challenges in this area are not waiting. So we must, of course, remedy them in the meantime. That is why we must postpone the sunset clause once again, but with the significant difference from the last one that we now have, at the same time, in this draft law, that we have to abolish the waiting lists in high schools already now. It's a huge victory for us in the SF. Ventelists have been involved in skewing high schools and creating bad environments in the less sought-after high schools. As far as we are concerned, this helps to create poor welfare and a difficult start for our young people, which is why we are very pleased that it is part of the proposal already now. As you know, the biased distribution has also resulted in some colleges having very falling search numbers and being in a bad spiral. Those high schools in the SF, we'd like to help a little extra so they can get out of this spiral again. The solution to this agreement was a temporary stop to admission, and the good thing is that, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, the colleges are getting a little extra money between their hands, which they should not spend on those students who will not be admitted next year, and instead they can use them to make a new and better education, for example. with two teacher schemes and all sorts of other. It is also a very good solution, because we need to focus more on the most challenging schools, and we need to help them get back on their feet. Finally, I would like to emphasise that we also support the ceiling on grants for private colleges. I believe that this will give schools and young people peace of mind, and I believe that it will ensure that the new agreement is just allowed to land without creating unnecessary panic. So in SF we are of course in favour of this proposal, and then we look forward to the entry into force of the student distribution agreement, and to the future cooperation to further develop and adapt the new model, because we know that with all new beginnings there will be bumps on the road. There will be some child diseases for which we need to find a cure, which is why it is important that in here we continue to listen to the high schools and the pupils and keep the debate going, so that we can ensure the best possible solution with them, and fortunately we have also ensured this in the agreement, namely that we will return and, if necessary, be able to adjust on a regular basis. As I said, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140100	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, Denmark Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140106	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I could, of course, hear the rapporteur, at least towards the end of the speech, say something about the need to adapt it and develop it along the way if it does not work. Does the rapporteur not think that there is a risk that it is actually a little bit of an attempt now being made to use young people as guinea pigs, so that, in this way, you can say, you rob them of the free choice, because you must now have tested whether this is going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140141	No, I certainly do not think so, and I think the questioner has been involved in politics long enough to know that when you make such huge political agreements, there will be a risk that some things will have to change. So there I am just glad that with the agreement we have preceded it and written it in. Then I would say that I think the way we've failed and gambled with the students is that we're only making this deal now. Well, they've been yelling and screaming for a solution for years, and we haven't given it to them. Now we are giving them a solution, and that is very good, but I wish we had done it a long time before. And then I just want to stress once again that there was no free choice before this agreement. We're sharing today, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140221	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140223	No, and as I also said on the platform: there is not a hundred percent free choice. I am just afraid that there are substantially more young people who are now being coerced. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur: can the rapporteur give me an explanation as to why it has been decided to remove Køge Gymnasium? Well, couldn't it have helped somehow to make the job easier, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140258	It is true that Køge Gymnasium is not in the distribution zone, but in the distance zone. And there are two different problems, whether you are in the cities or in the countryside. On the other hand, we have done this by giving you maximum capacity in relation to the fact that you can't just suck up students from rural areas. The border ended there, and I think that is actually quite fine, so that we will not send out a signal that the whole Region of Zealand is the capital, because it is not. And then we have to look at how it works, including with Count Gymnasium etc. forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140333	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140334	Thank you so much. The Socialist People's Party is very often talking about this with fighting for children and young people, etc. How does the rapporteur really feel about the fact that with this bill, with the agreement that has been made, but also the forthcoming major legislative proposal, the bill for decades of misguided immigration policy is actually left by the young people themselves? They're the ones who have to pay the bill. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140409	I do not think it is decades of misguided immigration policy that the children of the people who have come to Denmark want to go to high school. Actually, I think that's really good. But we've just seen that in some places they crawl into socio-economic pockets. This is true both in the West and elsewhere in the country. In the SF we take the view that you should go to school with someone who doesn't look like you, because it's healthy for your world perception, and that's no matter where you come from or what religion you have. That's not what's important to us. But I think it's great that there are more people who want to go to high school.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140447	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we will have to find out whether it is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen or Mrs Susan Kronborg who represents the Radical Left on this issue. Welcome to Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140529	Thank you for the floor. For us in the Radical Left, it is also a value that we meet across school in relation to social and cultural differences. We need to learn together, and we need to learn from each other. Unfortunately, for a number of years we have seen a tendency to the opposite in some of the country's high schools, and therefore we decided two years ago tomorrow exactly 2 years ago, I could see here in the Parliament hall giving the distribution committees the opportunity to make some local student distribution rules that they could distribute the students according to. At that time, I and the Radical Left made it clear that this was a first step towards taking political responsibility for the challenges that were already urgent in a number of high schools. And, of course, as I assume you have said, in some places around the larger cities, the challenge was and is, as we know, a polarization, where the students group with others who look like themselves, and in the outermost regions, the problem was and is that the local high school in some places has eroded their student base and in the long term risks having to close. We both owed it to find a solution. This was a matter of urgency at the time, and unfortunately the negotiations were then postponed several times. All the more happy we were in the Radical Left when this year we finally succeeded in reaching a political agreement on the distribution of pupils across the middle. This is absolutely essential and necessary both for us to have strong high schools throughout the country and also for us to succeed with integration. With this bill, we're taking first stride in terms of getting the intentions of the political agreement to live until the overall agreement can be implemented from the school year 2023-24. In this bill, there are four elements. Firstly, until we implement the overall agreement, we still have the opportunity to take advantage of the local rules for the distribution of pupils. We think this is a good temporary solution, just as we also look forward to the regions being given a more prominent role when the big solution comes. Secondly, we are dealing with a central problem: waiting lists. And it is essential for the model of student distribution to work in practice that we get rid of the practice that there are in some places, that from the start of the school year it is written up to go elsewhere; it damages the class community and it damages the pupils' ability to fall into the upper secondary school at which they have started. Thirdly, the draft law provides for a ceiling on the number of pupils receiving grants from private colleges. The main aim is to maintain the status quo, no more and no less. Private secondary schools must therefore be able to exist on the same terms as today, when they are an option for some pupils and not an opt-out of state-owned secondary schools. Finally, fourthly, some colleges, which have otherwise ended up in a negative spiral with fewer and fewer applicants, have a temporary stop to the admission of new first-year students. This is not an approach that the Radical Left has brought to the table, but we think that, with the criteria we have found, it can help to give some schools the fresh start that they have also deserved. Because they're better than their reputation, and so are their students. Of course, we support the overall legislative proposal, which means that we will now finally have an important first step on the road to taking political responsibility for the fact that in future we will also meet across school and have strong high schools with strong professional communities throughout the country. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140924	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments, and that is from Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens first.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118140929	Thank you. Yeah, the deal you made back in 2019 wasn't part of either, because we saw already then and yelled at guard in the rifle that this was a completely wrong way to go. I understand that the Radical Left is happy with this agreement. The Radical Left has also been the banners of this misguided immigration policy, which has been conducted for decades. But I simply have to ask the Radical Left whether the Radical Left really thinks that they know better. Now we're talking about the fact that, of course, you're gonna have to take advantage of it. The rapporteur thinks so. There is no scientific basis for this to work. There's no empire and stuff like that. On the contrary, there is actually a part of the opposite. Does the Radical Left really believe that you know better than the parents and the young people themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141018	I don't know what empire it is you think there should be for this. What we think is that it is important to meet across the school, and what we know is that during a transitional period there are falling adolescences, after which we will again see an increase, in other words a hammock. We also know that there must be a basis for a high school to exist. So we go in with this deal and take responsibility for the fact that high schools can exist throughout the country in the future, and also a responsibility that we have high schools where we meet cross-country. We think that is an important value. Moreover, this is something which has actually been screamed at in many places to find a solution, that is, among the student organizations, among the teachers and among the rectors.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141105	Does Mrs Mette Thiesen want to ask another question? Mette Thiesen Yes). Good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141106	Thank you. In reality, however, we are also faced with the problems which the Radical Left has led to inflicting on Denmark precisely this totally misguided immigration policy, which has caused us to face this situation today, where there are very, very many people who should never have attended high schools at all. By the way, I have a lot of reports that actually show that this forced distribution is not a very good idea. It has also been tried in Aarhus. There are numerous reports that this self-segregation is happening, regardless of the fact that people are being distributed throughout the high schools; it happens anyway, mainly with these Muslim students. But I just have to ask again: does the Radical Left still think that the Radical Left, because you have a gut feeling, and because you have a feeling that mixed classes are good, know better than parents and young people themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141201	First of all, you haven't had a real student distribution model in Aarhus either. So I am very excited to see what kind of reports the questioner has. Secondly, and this is more like what this is about, to comment on the part that concerns integration policy, I would like to say: no, we do not believe that these pupils with other ethnic backgrounds in themselves constitute a problem. We do not believe that they should not be admitted to high schools because they have a different background. We do not believe that they are unintegrable. We think it is important that we meet across the board and that we do not gather together in groups, because integration will, of course, be difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141240	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141243	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would just like to ask the radical rapporteur very briefly: if the rapporteur is trying to put on the negative glasses in relation to the model I know it can be difficult when you are part of the agreement what does the rapporteur see about the disadvantages of the model here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141307	Thank you for the question. Well, it's clear that we'd like it to be possible to make this deal. We would like to have your local high school chosen automatically, and that some then chose something else because they wanted to come in and have something with music or sports or something else. But that you think that the local high school was an attractive choice, no matter where you lived in the country. We can then just see that there has been a development in some places where it is not and where it is therefore necessary to distribute pupils and take responsibility for it politically. But, of course, we would not like that to be necessary, because that is the disadvantage of the proposal or of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141347	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141348	Yes, and the rapporteur says in that way that forced distribution will have to be introduced. And that is actually where we, on the Left side, quite frankly, cannot be involved. Could the rapporteur perhaps say something about what is actually being done, if it turns out that these young people do not actually take up youth education. Has it been thought so far, that the worst possible consequences of this new model actually mean that far more young people in the big cities do not take an upper secondary education? And what will you do about it, that is, if we have that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141429	Firstly, in order to address the issue of distribution and coercive advantages at all, there is already distribution today. And, of course, the Left itself wanted a new student distribution agreement to come a long way. You cannot then be part of the proposal that lies now, and you have explained why you could not, but it is just to address the word forced distribution. Because there is also distribution today. In relation to the question of what we will do if developments move in a different direction: we will, of course, follow this close to a number of areas. There are, of course, many elements in what we need to look at on an ongoing basis in relation to whether there are some inappropriate patterns in some places where you actually move around in a different way than was intended. I think that we owe it to us to say quite openly that we must, of course, keep an eye on this. This is true, for example. in particular on the border between a distribution zone and a non-distribution zone. What's really going on? But no, I certainly do not imagine that this will lead to fewer people taking youth education at all. I find that very, very difficult to see for me. We have a general challenge with too few young people receiving youth education. We are incredibly concerned about this in the Radical Left, and we will follow it closely in all possible ways, whether we had made this agreement or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141538	Thank you to Mrs Sophie Callesen. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141551	As we have seen, this summer's political agreement has now begun to be transposed into legislation. If you have to start by saying something critical about the agreement... I can hear that being called for... then I can help you say it's very late we're reacting. This is a problem we have been discussing for years. We have been pressing for a long time on the part of the Enhedslisten, including the previous government. But in any case, it is good that we are now responding to this and that we are a political majority who are now going to implement this legislation that will ensure a better distribution of pupils. We had hoped that we could get started as early as the school year 2022-20203. This has not been possible with the model on which we have agreed, and it is therefore necessary that we regulate certain matters temporarily. On the one hand, we are extending an existing transitional regime, that is to say the sunset clause, and on the other hand we are introducing other transitional arrangements. I would say that we in the Enhedslist are pleased with the agreement behind this proposal. It has been essential, as others have said, for us to introduce new distribution rules. This is true, on the one hand, in terms of ensuring that upper secondary education can be conducted throughout the country, and, on the other hand, in terms of ensuring greater diversity in the composition of pupils in the country's secondary schools. We naturally support the various transitional arrangements that are being proposed, but I would also like to say that we are more enthusiastic about some of the transitional arrangements than about others. We think it is incredibly good that we should get to work on abolishing the possibility of making waiting lists. There has been a very unfortunate practice in a number of places in the country, which has helped to undermine the student base of an already pressured upper secondary school. It is high time something was done about this, and there too we were annoyed that we could not make a stop to waiting lists at the start of the school year. Unfortunately, however, this has not been possible for legal reasons either. We are pleased that we have limited the possibility of institutional change and we are satisfied with the temporary limitation on how many pupils as private colleges can receive grants. On the other hand, I would also like to say that we have had no wish for a temporary stop to admission to a good handful of high schools in the coming school year, which is part of the proposal here. We would have liked to have been the temporary stop in addition. We recognise the considerations that lie, including those of the other parties with which we have agreed, in relation to how this could help to bring about a better transition. We would have preferred to have only added extra resources to the high schools in question, which have serious problems, so that they could have created an additional quality which had also helped to encourage others to look for high schools. So it is not with enthusiasm that we have joined exactly that part of the transitional regime. But that is the agreement we have been able to agree on. With that I must say that Enhedslisten thinks we have made a very good overall agreement on this. All in all, we believe that these are sensible transitional arrangements and we can support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118141942	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no brief comments. Then I want to know if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. That does not seem to be the case. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118142003	Together with the Danish People's Party, the government and its support parties have made an agreement this summer on new rules for student distribution in the upper secondary school area. Let me be very clear: it was and is nothing less than a disastrous agreement. There are, among other things. This disastrous bill came out of another one. First of all, this sunset clause will be postponed in the previous agreement, which all parties supported, moreover, with regard to local distribution committees, which will make it possible to make it compulsory. We were in New Citizen as the only party outside that agreement, because already in that agreement we said clearly and clearly from in New Citizen, because social engineering is not our cup of tea. We do not want coercion, we want free choice. But I'm afraid that doesn't stop here. This bill also implements this forced distribution agreement made by the government with the blood-red majority and the Danish People's Party this summer. The bill here abolishes public secondary schools' access to waiting lists. In short, if you do well, you must be punished. The bill here also limits students' ability to change institutions. The proposal here establishes a grant ceiling for pupils in certain private colleges. So the government's ideological struggle against private initiative continues unsatisfiedly. This bill is therefore a real cheek of disastrous ideas and proposals, but unfortunately it is being voted through because there seems to be a majority in favour of forcing and hating free elections; a majority that allows young people to pay the price for decades of failed immigration policy instead of solving the problems from scratch, and that is sad. This summer's agreement and this bill include high school taking up students on the basis of their parents' wallet. The achievement of young people's educational desires will therefore be conditional, when this whole agreement is implemented, on what jobs their parents have. This is the exact opposite of what the government claims to want to achieve, and it is also exactly the opposite of what we want in New Citizens, namely to ensure free elections. In short, of course, high schools should not be used as integration projects, and students should not be forced to go to a high school without their friends and far away from their homes. That is why, of course, a future bourgeois government must sit down to scrap the red people's machinations of a high school agreement. The problems should not just be moved around, they should be solved from scratch. One should not be mistaken about what the purpose of both agreements is... this bill too, namely the compulsory distribution of pupils in the name of integration. The parties to the agreement also addressed the agreement as an attempt to mix pupils on the basis of parents' income in order to create a more socially diverse composition in the country's secondary schools. In fact, it is a question of distributing Muslim students into Danish secondary schools and, in turn, distributing Danish students into immigrant universities. So from now on Danish young people cannot be sure if they are placed in a poor high school with a large proportion of non-western pupils. That is quite unacceptable, because the bill for decades of misguided immigration policy should not land in the teenage room. Of course, the obvious way to avoid state forced distribution is for parents to go together to set up private colleges to ensure free choice for their children and other people's young people. But even here the government and the blood-red support parties, and the Danish People's Party, are now sticking their long fingers into civil society's initiatives and restricting freedom. With this bill and the agreement reached and the bill that is coming, the ceiling will be placed on how many pupils private secondary schools are allowed to take up, because the parties to the agreement know very well that, of course, no young people want to be forced into an immigration college. It is even in the consultation answers that I mentioned earlier. The solution to the problems of parallel societies and immigrants is twofold. First of all, we need to solve immigration policy from the bottom up, so that we get a plug in the influx, because without it the problems will continue and they will get worse. At the same time, we have to solve the specific problem of poorly functioning immigrants, and the obvious solution to this problem must, of course, be found by raising the character cut to 7 in order to be admitted to high school. In this way, many of the students who constitute the problem will automatically be sorted out in relation to being able to attend high school, and those who do not behave properly will of course have to be thrown out. We can't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118142502	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118142507	I hope that there are a lot of people listening to the Danish Parliament's TV channel today, where it is revealed that New Citizens do not want to ensure that Danish students can avoid being in a minority at a Danish high school. One wants to make sure that Muslims can continue to clump together in high schools; make sure that the Danish culture is not absorbed in itself; and thus may even affect Danish youths, so that they take over a Muslim or an Islamic culture. For the Danish young people are sitting there and they do not have the strength to get away, because the free choice in the high school world only exists where you go to a high school that no one else wants to be at. That is what makes Muslim students have a free choice, because they go to the schools from which the Danes flee, and therefore they have the opportunity to dominate there. Then there are the less resourceful who sit back and become a minority in Denmark. Evidently New Citizens are not interested in them, the weak Danes. They're on their own. Why are New Citizens not interested in ensuring that Danish secondary schools continue to be Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118142627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118142629	Well, that's what we want, but we're not in favour of patching things up. This is a huge patch solution. It is a huge patch solution that affects the many, because you want to take care of the few. It's like when the rapporteur said this earlier with the Muslim high schools. There is a Muslim high school in Denmark. There are 30 private high schools, and then one of them is Muslim. So let's stop the grant to the Muslim high school. That is our policy. But we're not gonna hit all the others. So this is the whole thing about hitting the many to take care of the few. Let us now solve the problems from the bottom up, and let us set up the character section so that these mainly untrained immigrant boys, who do not have an incision to go to high school, do not even enter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118142715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118142716	That's a pseudo-solution, that's not right. There will be lots of students who will also be able to cope with the character section that you want to set it up to. I would also like to raise the character cut, but that will not change the cultural problem, because many will still be able to cope with it, and they will still carry away a foreign culture with them, and they will still displace Danish pupils, which will unfortunately mean that Danish pupils cannot go to a school where the Danish culture is dominant. So it is not a solution It is so in the real world that there is never anything but patching solutions. The thing about thinking that you can do everything all over again doesn't work, because you can only do that if you want to make Russian and French revolutions, and they fail too. Of course, we need to start from the reality that is disastrous: there are some people here who have not been integrated and who have not wanted to. But I don't want them ruining the Danish high schools. They should not make it impossible for Danish students to go to their local high school when it is possible to make sure that the foreign students cannot lump together and displace Danish students. And, by the way, there are several Muslim colleges, and I would also like to see legislation being put in place that was directed directly at them. I'm afraid you can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118142831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118142833	I mean, I just spoke to the chairman of the Danish Private Schools and primary and secondary schools, and he gives me these figures. But let's hear it. I am fully involved in removing the grant from Muslim high school and, as such, also from free schools. What is like the whole essence here is that you hit the many in relation to hitting the few. If there are some untrained immigrant boys, they just have to be thrown out. So you can get rid of this in a lot of ways. It just doesn't help with those so-called learning consultants, which is in the agreement. What are they gonna do with these high schools? So no, we will not be in favour of the forced distribution of Danish pupils, placing them on an immigrant gymnasium and also removing, for example, untrained immigrant boys and placing them in a well-functioning Danish high school. Because we can see, among other things. in the figures that they self-segregate themselves no matter what. Social control will still be there. So this is just a matter of spreading the problem to a lot of well-functioning high schools. You don't solve the problem. In New Citizens we will solve the problems from scratch.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118142935	Thank you for that and, in particular, thank you for the rapporteur's fine poetry. Blood red is not a word that many use anymore, but I remember it from my youth, from some poetry that said: There goes about our planet a blood-red band, it binds us together, we go hand in hand. Thank you so much. Mette Thiesen I also thought that the President would appreciate it.' We must just be sure that all the rapporteurs have spoken. That seems to be the case. Welcome to the Minister for Children and Education and my replacement, who is busy today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118143008	Thank you. The latter was simply nonsense. I just have to comment on it right away, and then I'll tell you what I actually planned. After all, no young people are being moved over, and then they have to go to an immigrant gymnasium. That's the whole idea. After all, there will be no immigrant gymnasiums, that is the whole point of student distribution, namely to ensure exactly what is said by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, namely that those who represent the majority culture in our society are the majority in that place at every gymnasium in Denmark. That is what happens with the distribution of pupils, and therefore it is simply nonsense from one end to the next. I would like to say that I am not actually so surprised by the situation with New Citizens, that is that this is where we are in relation to this issue, namely that we cannot support it. It is more a question of rhetoric, where I think we are going very far away from what is real in this, but on the other hand I am simply so sorry that we did not succeed in bringing Conservatives and the Left along. I might as well say that as it is. I would have liked us to have put the whole herd together on this. And I have been back and rooting in the quotes that lie from when Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby was Minister of Education, and I think she said some very sensible things about this and I quote: The ghetto schools we see today are bad for the individual student who does not meet Danish pupils, Danish norms and values, and it is also bad for integration into our society, and therefore there is a need for political action. She also said at the time: I hope that the conciliation circle and the political parties will help to act so that we can have new rules for the distribution of high schools starting from next school year. What's a little special here is to hear Enhedslisten. Now I have been rapporteur for the Enhedslisten for many years in the field of education, and there has been a completely different willingness to compromise in recent years, and I think it is quite fantastic to hear Enhedslisten say up here that there are parts of this agreement and what we are dealing with with today's legislative proposal, which we do not really like very much, but that is what could be done in relation to the agreement, and some of us would like to do so. I would have liked the Left and Conservatives to do the same, because it gives itself that when you make an agreement, you cannot love it 100 per cent. I just don't think I've ever tried that. I just don't think I've ever tried to make a political agreement where I loved what was in it, 100%. Nor is it necessary to make agreements, because we are actually supposed to make compromises. I know what parts of this have been settled by the Left and the Conservatives, but I do not think there was enough to separate the waters so that we could not reach an agreement, so it was a fervent wish on the part of the government that we had held it together, even if there were parts of what we were not interested in. After all, it is never too late to join, and I would just like to appeal to the two parties to rethink it on a regular basis. I'd say I still haven't seen an alternative bid. This has been a very long journey towards making this agreement, and that means that it is not the case that it has been brought forward with proposals on how else to do these things in a way which could both gather support in the Folketing and which could otherwise be done within international laws and frameworks. Then I would also like to say something that I think is quite important, namely to find something that the youth education partners support. In other words, if there are no alternatives, it is all the more important that we should also be included in the compromises that are needed to arrive at broad agreements. So I am simply sorry about the Left and Conservatives, but it may be that it is taken up for reconsideration. Now that we are at the parties on youth education, I would like to thank very much all those who have been tirelessly and for years fighting a brave battle uphill to get some high schools to hang together, some upper secondary educations to hang with a whiffy student distribution. It is a political decision that lies behind the fact that the distribution has been as uneven as it has been, it has not been the high schools that have done anything wrong, and it is not the pupils who are wrong either. I've heard some students ask if it's because it's us that's wrong with. No! It is the confusion of you that is wrong with, and you are not responsible for that as individual students. It is a political decision that lies behind the fact that the composition of pupils is as it is, and therefore it is also a political responsibility to correct it. The teachers and the managements of the high schools, which have been very unevenly composed, have worked so hard to make things work together on the basis of the distribution of pupils that has been. I was visiting Frederiksberg High School recently, who also wanted to tell you a little about what tools they have used to make things work together, and I think that a lot of other places could be inspired by the experience they have there. Then I would like to thank all those who have made input in connection with the agreement. It is, of course, about the group of experts with Mrs Rikke Hvilshøj, who provided a solid basis for us to continue working on, and then it is both about student organisations that have participated very actively in it and have made a lot of different input, it is about the Teachers' Association of the Gymnasiums, Danske Gymnasier, Danske Værvskoler og - Gymnasier, but I shall not mention them all together, for then I forget some, but also the organisations that have to do with the private colleges that have provided input in connection with this. I know that it is not the private high schools' favourite agreement that has been drawn up, and we have tried to strike a balance between the positions of the various parties, but also a balance that means that, as it were, we are neither giving nor taking away from private high schools. So our objective has been to say that the nose should actually just be kept straight on track, and then you should have roughly the same number of pupils as you have had in previous years, in the years ahead. You don't need more, you don't need fewer. In fact, the agreement should not lead to any change in private secondary schools, because that is not the purpose of the agreement. And there have been some input along the way, where there have been some corners, some newly created high schools, and there may certainly also be some other things along the way, and there we very much appreciate that we get things into the Ministry regularly and thus in the contract circle, so that we can take a position to correct. That is exactly what the SF rapporteur says, namely that this will, of course, have children's diseases. One cannot make such a big change without there being bumps on the road, and the sooner we get the problems that arise in the wake of the agreement, the sooner we can do something about them. And one of them was one of them. in relation to one of the newly created private colleges, and it has never been the intention of this agreement to make a difference, either upward or downward, which means that it is very good if we quickly draw attention to the problems that arise in the wake. Then there has been a discussion about this about why Køge should be included, or why Køge should not be included, in the debate today, and to that I would say that we have put some cuts in the agreement now. We still have to fix capacity in the Ministry, which is why there are a lot of derivatives we don't know about yet. Are those cuts going to be 100 percent right? I don't think so anyway. I think we're doing a really thorough job, but there's also not the world so good that you hit one hundred percent right in the first chop. That is why this interplay with the sector, that is to say, with rectors, with teachers, with pupils, is incredibly important, because that is where we get the information about where the different corners that can go wrong exist. So thank you so much to all those who have contributed to this. Again, I am extremely sorry that I did not succeed in getting the Left and the Conservatives to do so, but I hope that at some point you will reconsider your perception of it, it may be that when we make it work out in reality, if nothing else so that will do so. However, thank you for your cooperation, too, for the period during which you were in the negotiations. I think that actually made the deal better. Finally, of course, I would also like to thank all the parties that ended up in this agreement. It's really hard to make an agreement of this nature, because it's always a lot easier if you don't have to interfere, and here it has been absolutely crucial for the cohesion of our society that we went in and said: We will insist that people are together, we insist that part of being formed as a citizen, as a human being, is that we know each other across layers of society, across religion, across ethnicity, across gender, across all the other things. And one of the tools to make sure that we are well mixed up as a society is that we also decide how to distribute students in Danish secondary schools, just as we have always had a tradition of doing so in the field of primary school, where there have been school districts in a lifetime. So very nice that so many parties took responsibility for it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118143914	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118143917	Thank you. Now the Minister has mentioned the fact that if new private high schools start up, then they will not be hit. Is that correct? In this context, I would also like to ask whether it is the same thing if there are two private colleges, perhaps one with stx and one without which they want to merge, because they can see some operational benefits in it. Will they not be affected, as is the case with a new high school, or what average student numbers will they have to use if they are affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118144007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118144009	What we have been discussing in concrete terms is a high school which, so to speak, had already been established but was new. This was one thing that we had not taken into account in the context of the text of the agreement, which is why we have been looking at it and have said that it must be at least sustainable, because it has never been the intention that it should not be sustainable. In relation to the merger, I would like to point out that you must not have two different addresses; you must not run groups as private institutions, i.e. private colleges. That is probably taken into account, but it is just to say that there are a number of other things that are just playing into it and that make it a little difficult for me to stand here and say that well they can. They can't do that if they, for example. imagines having to merge in a way where they have two different addresses. You can't do that. So I think I'm gonna have to get it in writing in order to be able to deal with it in concrete terms. I would like to say that I am completely open to looking at it if there are any corners other than the one corner we have been across. Of course it will be related to such a big deal as this one. As I said, it has been the clear political intention and an agreement between the parties that it should not have an upward or downward effect on private secondary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118144119	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118144120	Thank you. I will pass the question on to the Minister here between the first and second readings so that we can somehow get it printed. I would now like to ask the same question about what I also asked the radical rapporteur, namely what concerns are involved, in addition, of course, to the fact that I have indicated that we in the Left are very concerned about the number of young people who, quite frankly, should now go on a youth education which they do not want to do. Does the Minister have no concerns about the fact that this could lead to more young people actually choosing not to take an upper secondary education?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118144201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118144202	To the end, that is actually not where my concern lies. It is clear that some of what I find difficult and difficult in this is that in the big cities there will be a decline in how many will have their first priority. It is still going to be very high, but more will be given their second and third priorities than today. I don't think I should be taken lightly. If there were not the situation in which I actually believe that we are creating a poorer secondary school and, incidentally, a very high risk of parallel societies, then I would not have gone down that road at all. These are balances, and I have spent an incredibly long time thinking about it: discuss it with the pupils' organizations, with the teachers, with the rectors, with the parties. I don't think you should take that lightly. When we do what we do, it is because we believe that it is very damaging to our society and indeed to each individual student if there is not a proper mix of pupils in high schools. We must take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118144301	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118144328	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118144341	Thank you for the floor. The psychiatry is a very important area for the government and social democracy. We set aside 600 million in the first Finance Act. kr. to the psychiatry, we have set aside money for a large increase in health care through the economic agreements, and the government has set in motion a large and ambitious work on a 10-year plan for psychiatry, which we will soon be discussing in the Danish Parliament. I look forward to that very much. Today's draft law introduces a number of new provisions in the field of psychiatry, such as: strengthen legal certainty, create more security and better working conditions in psychiatric departments. We are very concerned about this, both for the sake of patients and for the sake of the many dedicated employees who work every day in the psychiatry. We are making it possible to impose a number of restrictions on housekeeping in the psychiatric wards. The aim of the house orders is to create a proper framework for the work of the departments for the benefit of both staff and patients. It is therefore an important tool for employees. We in the Social Democratic Party are confident that sensible house-orders can be created around the world that make it possible to create a secure everyday life. The Ombudsman has criticized, on several occasions, that there is no basis in the legislation for the present house orders. At the same time, Danske Regionser has stressed that the regions need to be able to use these house orders to run the psychiatric departments because they need to ensure a safe environment for patients, staff and relatives. The regions therefore need to be able to make use of the house order, but this must of course be done on a legal basis. That is why, of course, we as Parliament have a duty to legalise the use of house orders, because we have basic confidence that the staff of the departments can assess what is right in the specific situation. They need the right tools to ensure a safe everyday life. I hope the Folketing agrees with that. It is also about safety for employees and patients when it is proposed to introduce better security controls with the help of body and baggage scanners, because we want to prevent substances and dangerous items from entering the wards. Today's legislation is not entirely logical, and we will correct that with the bill. It should also be possible for the regions to set up special units for custody surrogates where specific restrictions may be imposed. It is again about creating the best possible framework for both patients and employees and preventing dangerous objects entering departments where they can be used against both other patients and employees, and we can shut down communication with e.g. criminal gangs. The well-being of employees is very important. Of course, patients' legal certainty is the same. We strengthen patient safety by introducing a record obligation for the fixed guard for patients who are forcibly fixed with a belt, and by setting fixed intervals between the three medical assessments of belt-fixed patients. This follows on from a criticism made by the European Court of Human Rights, on which we, as responsible government and Parliament, naturally have an obligation to act. All in all, it is a proposal that we believe will create better conditions in psychiatric departments, both for patients and for employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118144837	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118144859	The draft law we are discussing today deals with a number of initiatives designed to strengthen and strengthen the security of the psychiatric and judicial psychiatric services for the benefit of patients, patients and staff alike. This is both good and necessary, because we are among others. The Ombudsman was reminded, in connection with the Ombudsman's visit to the psychiatric departments, that a number of house orders contained rules on restrictions or cutting off, among other things. access to literature and mobile phones to which the law was questionable. In November 2019 a person escaped from a court psychiatric ward after a visitor had brought firearms and threatened freedom. Security is simply too poor for visitors to have access to visitors. Last but not least, on 15 September 2020, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in Aggerholm v. Denmark. The case concerned a belt fixation of 22 hours and 50 minutes. And the court found that Denmark had infringed Article 3 which concerns degrading treatment. The judgment contained three specific criticisms, one of which was that the patient had been belt fixed for 12 hours without being seen by a doctor. Whatever irregularity we are talking about, the clear position of the Left is that it should be corrected. It should be safe to go to work in both the psychiatric and the psychiatry departments, just as it should be safe to visit, be a patient or a co-patient there. But while we increase safety and security with one hand, we must not weaken the legal position of patients with the other hand. And it can be a difficult balance. The Ethical Council also points out this in their consultation reply, and I share the Council's concern that the draft law here will contribute to the increased stigmatisation of an already exposed group, which is partly sick people, and are people who are at risk of being double stigmatised because of crime. The Left also shares the opinion of the Ethical Council that body and baggage scanners are less intimidating than body searching, but I would also like to make it clear that we would like to see visitation carried out by trained watchmen and not by health professionals who might be in a dull double role. The Left shares the Government's ambition to reduce coercion and belt fixations, but at the same time recognises that coercion can be part of the treatment of very sick people and can therefore be one treatment instrument among many. But coercion cannot stand alone; it must never stand alone. We have long had a common political ambition to reduce the force figures without bringing us closer to the goal, rather the opposite, and that is sad. I note that the Institute for Human Rights points out that Denmark has repeatedly had to receive criticism from the European Torture Prevention Committee, and this really upsets me. I hope that the government will address the issues of the prolonged coercion and the increases in the overall use of coercion over recent years when the government expects to present its proposal for a new 10-year plan for psychiatry this or next month. The left has among other things: in writing. - (FR) The issues raised during the ongoing negotiations on the rate reserve, because reducing coercion is a clear priority for us, and we also want to give priority to means of reducing coercion. I have noted that both the Lawyers' Council and the Danish Psychiatric Society support the proposed obligation to note and point out that this will strengthen the legal certainty of patients. However, the Danish Psychiatric Society points out that the obligation to note must not be based on layman records, because the nursing around a belt-fixed patient must have a high professional quality. And I would like to ask the Minister for Health what the government thinks about that question. If the Minister is unable to answer the question today, I will put the question in writing at committee reading. There are several ethical dilemmas associated with the bill here, and I hope that both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Justice will come to the committee for a debate prior to the second reading, so that we can feel politically confident in the intentions behind the draft law • just as it will be important for us in the Left to be reassured that the minimum medium-term principle will continue to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118145339	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118145354	Thank you for the floor. I am an assistant rapporteur today and have received a rapporteur's speech from Mrs Liselott Blixt, with whom I wish to congratulate you. Psychiatry has been in need for many years, and we have on several occasions dropped the economy to the area, but it is as if money and intentions have been blown away as quickly as they have been set aside and formulated. This means that we have seen a great many episodes in psychiatry, which could have been avoided if there had been enough hands and treatment. The bill contains a number of amendments to the law on the use of coercion in psychiatry. A house order must be ensured on all sections, so that you have a safe environment for patients and staff. Care must be taken to ensure that body scanners and baggage scanners can be used when suspecting that illegal material is being carried to the department. Special rules shall be ensured for the person placed in custody. A patient who's had a belt fixer needs to be on a regular shift. The bill proposes that the permanent guard should draw up an objective description of the patient's current condition while the patient is forced to fix the belt. In accordance with the law in force, as long as a forced fixation of a patient is maintained, the question of the continued use of forced fixation must be re-examined at least three times a day. The draft law here proposes that the first assessment should be carried out within 4 hours of the decision on the use of forced fixation. Subsequently, assessments shall be carried out at intervals of not more than 10 hours. The draft law also contains proposals for delegation of decision-making powers in dangerous decree cases and the possibility of revocation of the decision authorising exit from the Social Security Department, etc. We in the Danish People's Party are in favour of the proposal, but we must also add that we are very concerned about lack of beds and lack of staff. These deficiencies lead to an increase in the number of patients sentenced to a court psychiatric measure, as well as an increase in the number of patients with severe psychotic conditions. Due to the lack of beds in court psychiatry, patients with a conviction and people in surrogate detention have been admitted to general psychiatry instead of court psychiatry. There have been examples of surrogate fugitives running away and threatening staff, and here we must ensure that this is not possible in the future. We therefore think that many of the practices proposed are sensible, but we would like to have a meeting with the Minister either through a technical examination or through a closed consultation so that we can examine the proposal in more detail. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118145628	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118145641	Thank you for the floor. In the SF we are positive about parts of the bill, but against some other parts, so we hope that the bill can be split up. We must remember that we are about to start negotiations on a ten-year plan in psychiatry, such as this one. should include changes in the treatment of people with mental illness and the reduction of compulsion in general, and in particular the part used in the treatment indication. I can therefore be afraid that with the bill we will simply make some adjustments to a dysfunctional system. We believe that any changes to the legislation should form part of a comprehensive plan so that more people can experience the right help in time and, at the same time, avoid admissions and re-hospitals. The problems of security and safety for both employees and patients and dignified treatment are not solved by the proposed changes, either in relation to coercion in general or in relation to legal certainty for the treatment sentenced. Forced is an extremely violent interference with a person's freedom and physical integrity. We should therefore have the highest priority in making concrete plans to reduce the use of coercion. This requires a change in culture, it requires binding targets for management and centre management, and it does not address this bill. In relation to house orders, it is suggested that the Ombudsman's criticism is followed by the creation of the legal basis for making restrictions through the house order. It is difficult to see whether that proposal merely legalises the practice today, which the Ombudsman has criticised, and whether it leads to more restrictions on patients' freedom. It is therefore also unclear to us how this part relates to human rights obligations. There have only been discussions with Danish Regions and psychiatric directors about this, but no involvement of relatives or citizens. There are only remedies available to the hospital authority, according to the administrative law, and not to the Patient Complaints Board, according to health legislation. As far as legal certainty is concerned, the proposal for mandatory notes for fixed guards at belt fixing is a good proposal, but in the SF we believe that this could actually happen every 15 minutes and contain clear guidelines as to what should be observed and noted. It is also an important improvement and a follow-up to the opinion of the Court of Human Rights in relation to a specific case that one wants to change the range of medical supervision in connection with forced fixation. But we believe that it is still too long to maintain a fixation. So the intervals should be shorter and then forced fixation should be abolished as soon as there is no longer any basis for it. Intervals and minimum requirements must not become fixed limits and standards. Compared to the use of breath samples, urine samples and baggage scanners, safety controls, etc. We in the SF believe that this should only be done by reason of reasonable suspicion. A general suspicion of patients is conflict stairs, stigmatising and devastating to the treatment relationship and therefore also the effectiveness of treatment. In relation to special detention centres, we think it makes sense to set up special departments, but since they are people who have not yet been convicted or have been diagnosed with a mental illness, they are in a border area between psychiatric and criminal services. So would it not be sensible for this proposal to be discussed once again in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights? I know that they are in negotiations on criminal services, in relation to how we take care of citizens who are in the grey area between the judicial and the psychiatric systems? There are, for example: also inmates in prisons who do not receive the necessary help for their mental disorders, and cases where prison staff are powerless to do so, both because of lack of resources and competences. The SF is therefore both for and against the bill and believes that it should be split up and hopes that we can generally be more ambitious in reducing the use of coercion instead of making legislation that accepts the state of affairs. We look forward to further discussions in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118150108	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118150124	Thank you for the floor. After all, today we are discussing a bill on an ever-important and, unfortunately, always topical subject, namely coercion in psychiatry. The draft law follows on from a request from the Ombudsman, who has pointed out the lack of a legal basis for a number of restrictions which were included in house orders in psychiatric settlements across the country. This is, of course, a serious problem and must be responded to. The criticism that was raised was not so much about the specific interventions that it was about the lack of legal basis, clarity and therefore also the lack of legal status of patients. This draft law addresses this problem and, at the same time, clarifies the application and limitations of these very actions. By its very nature, it is important to ensure the necessary legal framework, and it is important to clarify areas of application and restrictions in order to ensure the legal certainty of the individual citizen. A possibility is introduced here for the use of body scanners and bag scanners in psychiatric wards, which is at the mild end of actions. And this is to improve the safety of both patients and inmates, and also of employees in these places, after cases involving, among others, patients. arms smuggling, and it is also something that is a wish from the Danish Regions. Note-keeping is introduced for the fixed guard in the forced fixation of patients with objective criteria for precisely taking notes, and this must ensure legal certainty for both patients and doctors. Provision is made for the setting-up of special departments for persons in custody, i.e.: people who have not yet been convicted and have not yet been released for a mental illness, but who are suspected of precisely this. And here there must be an opportunity to have increased security measures. Finally, fixed time intervals for the supervision of clamped patients are created as a result of a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, where a patient was confined for more than 22 hours without medical supervision for 12 hours. Of course, this is highly questionable, and of course something needs to be done about it again in order to safeguard the patients' legal position. Of course, we have confidence in the staff of psychiatry, even when they do not want to take unnecessary hard measures. It is, of course, our responsibility to ensure proper frameworks and clear guidelines. The draft law here solves a number of specific challenges, but that does not mean, of course, that everything is good. And we share the concerns raised by the Ethical Council, which I also heard, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The SF's rapporteur is concerned. So with this wish that this is not where we end, but here we begin, the Radical Left backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118150418	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118150433	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the government for bringing forward this bill. There is no doubt that psychiatry is a very important focus area for us in the Enhedslisten, and that is among other things. That is why, together with the other parties to the agreement, we were not only allocated 600 million. kr. in last year's Finance Act for a lasting boost to psychiatry. After all, we have also been persistently involved in putting pressure on us to have a 10-year psychiatry action plan, which must lay some groundwork on how we also want to improve psychiatry in the longer term. I therefore fully agree with the comments made by Mrs Trine Torp that this draft law contains both positive and negative elements, and I can therefore also support the fact that we are going to work in committee to divide it up. Because there are some positive elements in it, but there are also some things that we find more problematic. However, I think it is essential that we keep in mind that what we are doing here should of course be seen in the context of the 10-year psychiatry action plan that we are about to embark on and that we should have the whole development already under way in terms of recovery, inclusion and coherence in the psychiatry effort considered in relation to this and promote it. If, for example, we do not know what to do. I believe that the question of house order or institution regulations, they were raised in the past, reflects the need for house order to help set the framework for security and security in a department. It is clear that it should not develop into something that can be used as a pressure on the people with mental illness who are in the department, but instead should be used as a tool in which it can also be said that there are things in relation to recovery and inclusion that can be part of the house order. So it will be absolutely crucial that that part is also thought into the work, and there I think there is still some work to be done in relation to the proposal that lies here. And then security is just about more than house orders and luggage scanners. It is about proper norms, about adequate staffing and about being able to keep the level of conflict down by creating a generally secure framework. We would also like to recognise that this legislation must strike a fine balance, and it is not only about being able to ensure adequate security, but also about still being able to defend individual patients and citizens' legal certainty, and there are at least some areas that we can be critical of, and this is particularly so with regard to house orders. However, it is also absolutely essential that we should take a general look at the question of the use of coercion and the strengthening of the psychiatry of justice, which, among other things, should be addressed. This is done by making out-to-date teams and supporting initiatives. So I also think there was an excellent proposal from Mrs Trine Torp to think about this with the debates that are going on right now on the subject of criminal justice. Then I think that the elements surrounding both the obligation to note and the range of medical supervision are in fact also excellent and on the basis of improvements, because today it is the case that we have to carry out, and I do not remember the wording, but it is something with sufficient supervision, but at least three times a day, and it may be good to put in place some standards for at least when it has to take place, i.e. at least after 4 hours and then after 10 hours. But once again we must be careful, because it should not just be the standard that what is actually intended as a minimum right is what we are supposed to do as a starting point. But the fact that we get it three times a day means that it is distributed fairly evenly over the day. I think that is sensible, and I think we will be able to support that. So there are some positive elements, but also some elements in which we find it difficult to see ourselves, and that is why we think it would also be sensible to divide up the proposal and then we have to take the rest in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118150929	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118150938	Thank you. Yeah, I'm here today as a substitute for Per Larsen. After all, this bill is on several legs, as several rapporteurs have already mentioned. It is proposed that the hospital authority should ensure that in order to provide a safe environment in all psychiatric departments there is a written house order in the individual departments so that there is a secure environment in the departments. In particular, it is suggested that the medical examiner may decide that a patient should give an exhalation test and/or a urine test if he suspects that medications, drugs or dangerous articles in the department may be used. In future, a patient who is forced to fix the belt must have a permanent guard. The bill proposes that the permanent guard should draw up an objective description of the patient's current condition while the patient is forced to fix the belt. This is, from the outset, very sensible, as there is continuity for both the employee and the patient. Forced in psychiatry is always a difficult subject to deal with, and there are no two different political views that we should have less coercion in psychiatry, but of course also a security and security for our staff. The question then is how we handle it best. We have noted in the hearings that the Medical Association proposed the dissemination of housing teams, inspired by the Capital Region of Denmark, which has significantly reduced the number of forced admissions and bed days and has improved cooperation between regional psychiatry, general practice and the employees in the housing offers. This is a model which we consider to be interesting and which we would like to look at more closely. In addition, of course, we are very interested in the fact that both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Justice are looking into the committee for a meeting, as my colleague from the Left suggested. With those words, the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118151140	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. I do not see the Liberal Alliance, the Free Greens or the KD, so we give the floor to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118151158	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor and thank you for your comments on the draft law and receipt. I have taken note of those who were in agreement, but also those who were partly in agreement, and let us see if we can find solutions to this in the committee's work. With the bill we are in the psychiatric area, and what I have also noted is that the parties have said what I fully agree with, that for a number of years the whole psychiatry has been under-priority, and that must and must be corrected. Therefore, one of the first things we did as a government after the last parliamentary elections was to give a boost to psychiatry. In the first Finance Act, we delivered a boost of 600 million. kr. Annually from 2020 onwards. So this is a permanent and lasting boost which is now being translated into various improvements and extensions of very hard-pressed departments in various parts of our psychiatry. In addition, we are preparing what is going to be our 10-year plan for psychiatry to set the long-term direction for psychiatry, addressing the fundamental challenges that go across the board, yes, it is indeed the health, but there is indeed much that is in the social area because the Danish Health Authority, the Social Protection Agency, are those who are pen drivers for the work that has to be the basis for it. I look forward to discussing this with the parties of the Folketing, because I believe that such an important area should be broadly anchored in the Folketing. So it is in the slightly longer term, but the bill is, after all, about some challenges that we have here and now, which need to be looked at here and now in law, and these are the ones that this bill is designed to solve. I'll just take the points that are included, one by one. First of all, the safety of court psychiatry must be increased. After all, we had the specific event in 2019. There was a gangster who, by means of threats to the staff, simply ran away from a court psychiatric department in Slagelse it is also very well described in the media because it happened that the gangster succeeded in getting a weapon smuggled into the department by a visitor. It is absolutely essential that staff are able to meet at work without being confronted with violence or threats, that vulnerable patients are protected against these patients who are in these departments by criminal or violent behaviour. That is why this proposal is being put forward, among other things. has a specific element about routine body scans of patients and visitors to the court psychiatric departments. In addition, a proposal is made for the regions to be able to set up special departments for persons placed in custody and for these departments to be subject to specific restrictions, such as: routine examination of the living room or property of a custody officer. In addition, as part of the psychiatric area, it is our wish that patients' general legal certainty be raised. Well, now we're going from court psychiatric to psychiatric. In this context, it is essential that when coercion is used in psychiatric departments, it should only be reported when less intrusive means are not sufficient. It is the case that Denmark has received a judgment from the European Court of Human Rights. We got that in September 2020. The case dates back to 2013. It takes some time for such a case to get through these systems, but the judgment has only now been passed here, and the judgment was that the court considered that there had been an infringement of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights on the Prohibition of Inhuman and Degrading Treatment in connection with belt fixing of a patient. One of the criticisms of the judgment was that too long had elapsed between the three medical assessments made by the patient back in 2013. That is why this proposal is about establishing an interval between assessments so that first supervision takes place within 4 hours of the decision on forced fixation, and then there are also some time intervals. The next is to be done at a maximum of 10 hours apart. Furthermore, it is proposed that it should be clearly stated in the Psychiatry Act, which limits can be found in a house order in the psychiatric wards, and that there should be a clear framework for limiting house order, so that we ensure that the restrictions do not go too far in relation to the rules of the Psychiatry Act. At the same time, it will support the patient's treatment and also the general calm and safety required in such a ward. Finally, it is proposed that the fixed guard for belt-fixed patients should draw up a note describing the patient's condition, and this should be kept up to date, which, of course, could be used and be a supplement to the responsible doctor's assessment of belt fixation, and at the same time there is also a note which could be included in a possible complaint if the patient wishes to complain about belt fixation. So that's the content of the bill. There are slightly different elements, but they all have the same heading, and I hope that the legislative proposal will receive good committee consideration. I have heard that there are a few parties that have mentioned that they have an interest in some meetings of the committee and, of course, I am very, very happy to meet with my officials and others and answer questions there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118151748	Smart, but there's gonna be just one question here. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118151753	Thank you. I think it is very brave that the Minister mentions these 600 million over and over again. kr. to psychiatry, especially because we know that among other things. In the Capital Region, not all the money has gone to psychiatry, for example. to pay off leasing debts, and that certainly has nothing to do with psychiatry. And then I'm glad we're about to negotiate this 10-year plan for psychiatry. It has been postponed three times, and I think that something must happen soon. But there is hope ahead, I sense. What I would like to ask is that I put a question to the Minister in my rapporteur's speech, where I asked the Minister how the government feels about the consultation answer from the Danish Psychiatric Society, about the obligation to note, where the government proposes that it should be layman records. However, as the Danish Psychiatric Society very rightly points out, is it the case that the professionalism of a belt-fixed patient should be high, so does the minister insist that layman records are so fine when we talk about a long-term belt-fixed patient?
ParlaMint-DK_20211118151904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118151905	In relation to the first, it is true, and the parliamentary committee also knows that it is true that because we provided the funds for regional psychiatry, some regions had difficulty using them, had difficulty recruiting and expanding as quickly as the money came out, and therefore one region chose to say that in the short run we are paying a large leasing bill for something that was also health-related, as I understand it. But that money then goes back into psychiatry, which means that it is not right to say that money has gone from psychiatry. It was just an account where you took some money in some drain and then goes back to the psychiatry. Therefore, the funds are devoted to psychiatry and are spent on psychiatry, and this is a significant, lasting boost. Having said that, the answer to the question of the obligation to note is that it should be borne in mind that the guard who is with the patient is not a doctor. The doctor comes and supervises, but the guard may be a sosu assistant, or it may be a student, which is the guard who sits by the patient. It may be with a patient who sleeps for many hours, and thus it is the character that these notes then want.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118152012	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118152014	Thank you to the Minister for that review, but I did not quite understand the answer. It may be because I just didn't listen carefully enough. Well, does the minister insist that those records may well be layman records? When I have asked my question, I would at the same time like to acknowledge that I heard the Minister say that the Minister would like to come in committee with the Minister for Justice to clarify some of the concerns I raised in my rapporteur's speech, but I shall not go into that here. I just wanted to ask, does the Minister stick to the fact that these are layman records? It must be easy to answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118152047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118152048	In other words, there is a similar obligation under the criminal justice system, and that is actually what this proposal is inspired by. As it is sosu assistants or students who are typically sitting guard it could be with a sleeping patient or other and the doctor then comes in with these regular supervision and makes his assessments, it is they who have the missing education that make these notes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118152120	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118152136	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118152150	Thank you for the floor. These are two legislative proposals which will then be dealt with today as a single legislative proposal. The first part is about establishing the possibility of an intercommunal reimbursement for municipal healthcare provided to citizens on public or private specialized social services, which may sound quite technical, but in reality it is about something that may have quite a lot to do with some of our most vulnerable citizens, those who need our help and need the very right offer at the right time. Unfortunately, the current rules are moving in the wrong direction. For the current rules, the municipal incentive to operate specified social services for the benefit of citizens of other municipalities is weakened because the municipality cannot receive reimbursement for municipal health services. In this way, we can risk fewer specialist services to which the municipalities can refer and fewer opportunities for those who urgently need it, and we must, of course, solve that problem, and this is the proposal that has been made on the basis of an agreement between the government and the National Association of Municipalities, and I have also noted that the National Association of Municipalities is very positive about this bill in their consultation response. The second part of the bill is also about something very important, namely the control of the sale of tobacco and e-cigarettes, and the proposal follows on from the action plan against children and young people's smoking, which a broad majority in the Folketing signed almost two years ago. These are many good elements that are now being rolled out, and actions that hopefully will mean that significantly fewer children and young people start smoking and do something about the fact that around 13,600 Danes die of smoking-related diseases every year. When we make new legislation, we must, of course, also ensure that the rules are complied with, and that is why the Security Authority must check that illegal products are not sold. Because with our action plan there are a number of products that have been banned, and that is why we must also prepare ourselves for an increase in illegal trade. With the many measures, there will also be fewer products on the market, and that is why the proposal here is also about transforming the control effort into a more risk-based effort, so, in short, we are targeting controls where it is estimated that there is the greatest risk of encountering illegal products. Among other things: It is proposed that online e-cigarettes should be monitored more and more. The bill also proposes that the fee model be changed to reflect a future where there are fewer products to charge for, and it is also suggested that in future the Danish Safety Authority will also be able to control the trade in nicotine bags, for example, and that the Danish Safety Authority will be allowed to issue marketing bans if the products do not comply with applicable legislation. So to sum up, these are two proposals, which may seem somewhat intricate and technical at first hand, but which are actually about something very central: better help for people on social services and fewer children and young people who start smoking, and therefore, of course, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118152513	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118152528	Thank you for giving me the floor for the debate on the proposal for a directive L 85 is a minor pile-up of various amendments to the health legislation, as well as the legislation on electronic cigarettes and the tobacco sector, and let me start with the first. Many of the Danes who live on a social housing offer or similar offer need both social and health care interventions. Today it is the case that the municipality where the individual stays or resides is responsible for providing the citizen with the municipal health services that may be needed as a citizen, and it is also the municipality which has to pay for the benefit. It is not a particularly appropriate incentive structure because it can reduce the municipal incentive to operate specialized social services for the benefit of other municipalities' citizens. Therefore, in the view of the Left, it is a good idea, through the inter-communal reimbursement scheme, to encourage municipalities to create and maintain offers in the specialized social area. The second half of the bill is about something quite different: electronic cigarettes and the tobacco sector. In relation to the area of e-cigarettes, a so-called risk-based approach is proposed, with a greater share of control efforts being carried on to illegal products. Secondly, it is proposed that dealers, manufacturers and importers of electronic cigarettes and refill containers, etc. shall be subject to an annual fee. Furthermore, control of online sales, which would like to reduce online sales of e-cigarette products, would in turn reduce especially the purchase of e-cigarette products by children and young people. Finally, the government envisages that traders, manufacturers and importers of electronic cigarettes should be charged a fee. In the tobacco sector, it is also proposed to impose controls on a more risk-based model, in which the authorities will target illegal products in particular. And the Left is in favour of the content of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118152744	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone making brief remarks. That is why we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118152805	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, our specialist rapporteur is prevented from attending today's debate, so I have been asked to pass on this speech on L 85. This bill may wonder at two different changes to the legislation. One concerns inter-municipal reimbursements to citizens on social housing, etc. The municipality in which the offer is made shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs of municipal health care provided by the municipality to citizens who are searched for specialized social housing offers by another municipality. The second is that the National Security Agency is empowered to amend the fee arrangements for products covered by the Electronic Cigarettes Act and the Tobacco Act. The amendments involve, inter alia, dealers, manufacturers and importers of electronic cigarettes, refill containers, etc. will be subject to an annual fee. The Safety Authority will also be allowed to issue marketing bans on tobacco surrogates which do not comply with applicable legislation. It is clear from the observations made by the draft law that the adjustment of the fee arrangements must be seen in the context of a change in the control of, inter alia: a greater focus on illegal products. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that citizens be searched for the right offers and thus do not prevent or make it difficult to choose an offer in another municipality. Care must be taken not to increase the incentive to keep citizens in their own services, which are not sufficient, so we do not believe that the proposal can stand alone, but that an independent search must be ensured. Everyone must be able to have the healthcare that is important to them in the situation in which they are in, and the postal number should not be decisive in obtaining the right offer. We will ask about this during the legislative procedure. In relation to the second proposal, we in the Danish People's Party agree that children and young people should be prevented from using tobacco surrogates, as well as agree that more controls should be carried out on illegal products. That is why supervision by the authorities is necessary. So we are positive about the two proposals, but we would like to ask some questions in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118153010	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118153026	Thank you. Unfortunately, our rapporteur has no opportunity to be here today, which is why I would like to explain the SF's position. First of all, we in the SF believe in principle that this bill should be split up. In relation to the first part of the bill amending the Health Act, we agree that many citizens in offers need both social and health interventions during their stay. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the Health Act rules on the financing of municipal healthcare also contribute to a certain extent to the smooth functioning of the organisation of social services. For all municipalities should be able to create, maintain and develop social services, and the change may help to remove a barrier in relation to the maintenance of new offers. Therefore, it is good that there is a possibility of reimbursement of health costs, so that it does not affect the municipality of offer or that it does not provide places to other municipalities because they then become too expensive in operation. It will in itself risk reducing the range of offers. Indeed, there are some elements that we might wonder about. For example, in the consultation answers to L 27, it is mentioned that not all health services should be invoiced to the payment municipalities, and that is where we think we should look more at the Association of Local Social, Health and Labour Market Managers in Denmark, i.e. FSD, and KL's proposal to introduce the right to intercommunal reimbursement for other health services provided to citizens on social offers. In relation to amending the law on electronic cigarettes and tobacco products, we believe that we must, of course, take action against illegal products on the market, including as part of the national action plan against smoking by children and young people. We must prevent the expected illegal trade in order to protect our children and young people. However, it should also be ensured that the change does not result in a total reduction in resources in the area. The SF will vote in favour of the bill, but we believe, as I said, that it should be split into two.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118153217	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118153233	Thank you. The bill here contains two not entirely related parts. Firstly, it is proposed to modify the inter-municipal reimbursement of the use of specialised housing services. As part of the agreement on the municipalities' finances back in 2019 it was decided to look at the area, as the scheme at that time made it unattractive to establish specialised offers with access from other municipalities, as the municipality of residence had to bear the costs. With the bill here it is the municipality of residence that has to reimburse the municipality of residence for the actual costs, and this is, in my view, a much fairer and balanced solution, and at the same time it will also make it more attractive to create new offers. I do, however, have some questions which I will have to clarify during the committee's reading, among others. to ensure that we are not going to create new problems for our citizens in the country by changing the payment model, among others. know that we risk that municipalities will no longer be searching for specialized offers outside their own municipal boundaries because of the costs. So some of this needs to be clarified in committee. Secondly, controls on the sale of both e-cigarettes and other tobacco products are changing. Both are introduced to meet the action plan against smoking by children and young people, which a broad majority of this Parliament is behind. The controls will be more risk-based and targeted products, which are either expected to become illegal as a result of the implementation of the plan, or to which less sales are sought and which will be given special attention. There will be increased focus on illegal products and on tobacco surrogates so that we can detect and stop possible illegal sales quickly. Of course we support that in the Radical Left, and that was the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118153424	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118153441	Thank you very much. And once again, I want to say that I am here as a substitute for Per Larsen. This bill can roughly be divided into two parts: the control of tobacco sales and the possibility of intercommunal reimbursement for municipal health care. If we start with the control of tobacco sales, we will, of course, support bringing the tobacco control and fee system into line with the national action plan against smoking by children and young people. Of course, when it comes to municipal health care and municipal reimbursement, we support the initiatives that enable the necessary capacity in the specialized area. However, we are concerned, like the Danish Businesses, that the limitation of the scope of the bill may have unintended consequences for the local authorities' visitation practices, including and now I look down at the Minister for his attention; thank you very much for the financial incentive to search the citizens in the right place. We would therefore urge the Minister to include free-care homes in the scheme so that it does not become an argument against free-care homes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118153556	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118153608	Thank you for that, and thank you for just directing my attention to the right place. Thank you for a good debate in general on this bill, which is, of course, about several different relationships from intercommunal reimbursement for municipal health care to citizens on specialized social accommodation offers and adapting the fee models for products covered by the Electronic Cigarettes Act, etc. and the Law on Tobacco Products, etc. So there are a couple of different things in this bill, and I'm gonna take them one at a time here. The part dealing with a change to the Health Act creates the possibility for municipalities to obtain yes, it is called intercommunal reimbursement. The bill can therefore be passed on to the relevant municipality for the cost of a municipal health service to citizens on specialized social housing services, which are searched for the offer by another municipality. The aim is clearly to support developments in the specialized social area by changing the rules on health. It is a challenge of the current rules before we change them here, hopefully, that the municipality that then has a specialized social housing offer located in the municipality will have to pay for the cost of municipal health care, for example. home nursing or rehabilitation, for citizens who are searched from another municipality. And this can, by its very nature, constitute a barrier to the establishment and maintenance of specialized social housing services by the municipalities, and this is something that the KL has highlighted. With the bill, we therefore propose to remove that barrier so that the municipalities have the best possible framework for establishing and also developing and maintaining specialised social housing services. It is essential, of course, for the citizen to be able to make the right effort in the social field that there is a sufficient supply of specialised social housing services. So the intention of the proposal is to help ensure that there can be a high degree of specialisation so that offers can embrace the many different needs of the citizens associated with the offers. And, of course, it can also have an impact on citizens who may be part of a small target group or who have complex challenges. After all, it is important that you still have good offers for these, and they can't all lie in every municipality, so you have to work a little together on that, and you can do better with this model, that is our assessment. Then for another part of the proposal: In December 2019 the government and a broad majority of the Folketing, as you know, concluded the agreement on the national action plan against children and young people smoking. The step was an ambitious action plan which launched a wide range of initiatives to prevent and slow down the start of smoking and the use of other tobacco products and nicotine products among children and young people. So this bill provides a legal basis for adapting the control and financing model for e-cigarettes and tobacco, which is precisely necessary on the basis of the national action plan. Compliance with the initiatives of the action plan will be achieved, while at the same time more stringent measures are being taken against illegal products. If you then go back a little and look at when the Danish Parliament implemented the tobacco product directive, it was in 2016, you can see that a lot has happened since then. And it has to be said that the market for various products of this category has developed, and it has to be said that trade has also moved. It is therefore proposed that controls should be directed more towards those companies and products where the risk of offences is considered to be greater. A greater focus is placed on online control and illegal products, which can be expected to have a positive effect on the consumption of these products by children and young people. This group will often buy such products online. In addition, it is proposed that it be possible to impose a marketing ban on tobacco surrogates which do not comply with the legislation in force so that they are not free to bloom on the market while the procedure is being carried out. I hope that this proposal will be dealt with in committee and, of course, I will answer any questions the committee may have under way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118154031	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for a brief comment As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Health Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211118154044	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 19 November, at 1 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
