ParlaMint-DK_20210324130001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup): Bill no. L 193 (Proposal for a law amending the law on a guarantee fund for non-life insurance companies, the law on investment funds etc., the law on money laundering, the law on the Danish Green Investment Fund and various other laws (Increased investor protection in cross-border marketing of investments, the creation of a debt management unit in Financial Stability following the agreement on compensation, etc.) to minkers and downstream industries affected by covid-19, as well as enhanced supervision of players in the digital market for financial services, etc.)). Ministry of Interior and Housing (Kaare Dybvad Bek): Bill no. L 194 (Proposal for a Law amending the General Housing Act, the General Housing Act and the Rent Act). Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. L 195 (Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure, the Law on Competition and Consumer Relations in the Telecommunications Market, the Law on Arms, the Extradition Act and the Law on the Extradition of Violators to Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden (Amendment of the revision clause)). Employment Minister (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 196 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Supplementary Pension of the Labour Market (Enlargement of the Board of Directors' right of appointment on the tariff basis, etc.)) and Bill No. L 197 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Pensions and the Law on the highest, middle, higher general and ordinary early retirement pensions, etc.) Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly (Astrid Krag): Bill No. L 198 (Proposal for a law on welfare agreements in the area of the elderly). Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 199 (Proposal for a law on day-to-day welfare agreements and public schools). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 285 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the freedom of expression of public servants). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Justice (Nick Hækkerup) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the use by the administration of coercive measures and information obligations outside criminal procedure. R 14). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The Health Committee has presented a report on the study of the background for covid-19 outbreaks and covid-19 deaths in nursing homes and home care in Denmark 2020-2021. 14). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. Member of the Folketing Britt Bager has informed me that on 23 March 2021 she has resigned from the Confederal Group of the Left and, as of 24 March 2021, joined the Parliamentary Group of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324130214	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 6 April 2021. First of all, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, to explain the urgent question. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324130241	Thank you. Like other countries, Denmark has been affected by the corona crisis with many infected consequences. The government, the authorities and the Danish Parliament's parties have come together on measures to keep the infection down and save Denmark from the crisis. It has also succeeded a long way along the way, but in some cities and neighborhoods the pressure of infection runs completely off. It turns out that the infection is large in Vollsmose, Kokkedal, Ishøj, Kolding and places where there is a clear over-representation of Middle Eastern immigrants. In Esbjerg the municipality had to drive around with a speaker car and in six languages encouraged people to be tested. It is not only in Denmark that immigrant groups have been severely affected. This has been the case throughout Europe, Jyllands-Posten could report on 4 March. A number of speakers have said that culture has a major role to play. Many have been able to observe how Danes walk with distance to each other, while immigrants and their families wander around in large groups: father, mother and children, uncles, aunts and grandparents in a large chain of infections. Then we're gonna have to go wrong. There is therefore a need to focus on the cultural differences, which unfortunately mean that the pressure of infection in some places is high, causing damage to the whole of Denmark. Therefore, this query that demands the government's solutions to the cultural challenges of Vollsmose and elsewhere. I have to say that this is very, very necessary. Just after the Folketing has had a long and thorough discussion on how to move forward we have relaxed some of the restrictions, so we don't want to see us reaching a third wave. I think that will hit us extremely hard, and that is why it is important that we get our act together everywhere in Denmark, especially in the immigrant regions. You might as well say things as they are. It is in the immigrant regions that the worst infection is, and there remains. There is clearly a cultural explanation for this, unfortunately, and we must put an end to it. That is why we are asking this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324130454	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for explaining the question. I can now give the floor to the Prime Minister for his reply. After the Prime Minister's speech, there will be one brief comment for the rapporteurs, and then the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will be able to make one brief comment. So we must see how time progresses. Welcome to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324130520	Thank you. I would actually like to start by commenting on what is finally said by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and with which I am incredibly in agreement. On Monday we made a broad political agreement in which nine parties are involved, and I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for taking responsibility for this difficult part of the management of the corona. It is an agreement that has incredibly many good elements in it, namely that we are starting to reopen our society safely again, even in a situation in which many other countries unfortunately have to shut down their social life. When we're in this situation, there's a lot of explanations for that. The behaviour of the Danes is definitely one, our test, infrastructure is another. One of the things that all nine parties agree on is that in the future, in Denmark, we must strike much faster and much harder when there are local outbursts. That is why I very, very much agree with what is being said at the end, namely that the whole prerequisite for us to continue the good course in Denmark and to do what we can to avoid the fact that there are no guarantees for a third wave is that everyone is pulling along and that we have local outbursts knocked out. It is just to state that I fully agree with it, one might say, the framework in relation to the further handling of the corona. Now I am skipping my own introduction and going straight to the answer to the question here, because it is of course worrying to see that there are areas in Denmark where good development does not show up in the same way or where there are still too high levels of infection. This applies, for example, to Vollsmose, which the question today is about. Throughout the epidemic in Denmark we have seen an over-representation of infected people with ethnic origins other than Danish, especially among citizens with a non-western background. That is why I say it as briefly as possible: there is a problem for our handling of the pandemic in Denmark, and it is of course also a problem that we must be able to talk about and discuss in a proper way, but no one can close their eyes to the facts if we are to be able to deal with the pandemic, and we must. Several different explanations have been given for this, and many of them have also been put forward in the public space: large families living in small homes and a number working in the front line. Thank you, moreover, for the work done by many with non-western backgrounds and minority backgrounds in our Danish society as well as in the handling of the pandemic. A lot of people in health care have a different background than an original Danish background, and this also applies to cleaning, transportation, shop life and many other places. But, of course, we must also dare to ask whether that is the whole explanation. And so we are not effectively combating the epidemic by closing our eyes to the reality that unfortunately also exists. And today, in my view, there is no longer any doubt as to how to deal with the epidemic. We can all become infected, that goes without saying, and we can all bring ourselves or be put in a situation where we can infect others. But everyone who lives in Denmark, yes, it is true globally, knows what we're dealing with now, so it can't be an excuse that you haven't been given information about this pandemic and what to do if you get infected, because it's for over a year we've been fighting against the corona. I think that is actually what I would like to say at the outset. I would like to welcome the fact that we now have a broad political framework agreement for the continued management of corona, where local, effective decommissioning is involved, and that, of course, requires the decisions to be taken by local, municipal and regulatory authorities to ensure that the necessary reduction in activity is achieved. That is what I want to say at the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324130939	I would like to thank the Prime Minister, and I would like to make one brief comment to the rapporteurs who so wish. This is what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party, wants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324130946	Thanks for the speech. We are, of course, very much in agreement, but I just need a little more concrete answers to what is going to be done. Now I can say that the last thing we have had before me at our group meeting yesterday by our transport rapporteur is that there are a lot of complaints, just to mention one example, in relation to buses, where the driver and the driver can easily be with other ethnic backgrounds • do the right thing, that is to say, sitting in masks and everything, but where it is pouring in with people with other ethnic backgrounds who have no masks, and you can do nothing. Movia won't do anything. Well, it's just one of the problems that some still refuse to comply with the restrictions that are, and it's actually desperate, and many times it's done in a hugely scornful way, even if you say it nicely: Haven't you forgotten your mask, and would you please put it on? Then one claims to have an exception and laughs loudly and so on. That is what I have been presented with, and it is just one of the things that I find so unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131052	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131053	Yes, examples such as these are totally unacceptable. We cannot deal with a global pandemic in Denmark if everyone does not do what each of us can to comply with the guidelines, the restrictions and the measures that we must all take in this situation. So that is simply unacceptable, and if we are talking specifically about the fact that we do not want to comply with the rules that exist, for example in public transport, then, of course, sanctions must be imposed. This is also true in the future when we introduce a coronapas in order, for example, to be able to get to the hairdresser and other things, that, if you do not comply with it, then, of course, there must be sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131129	The next brief remark is to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131132	Thank you. The Prime Minister talks about people's working conditions, housing conditions, etc. I would also like to thank those who have taken a very important responsibility on the front here during the Corona crisis. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister agrees with Enhedslisten and his party colleague Peter Rahbæk Juel that the inhabitants of Vollsmose should in fact also receive a huge thanks for the huge voluntary efforts that have been made, there are many who have signed up as corona ambassadors, etc. etc. and has helped to ensure that it is actually the most tested district.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131209	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131210	I have no doubt that a great many people have done a great deal to bring the infection into Vollsmose, and there are also a number of initiatives that have worked, and that is very good. The thanks I give in connection with the handling of the pandemic go to all places in Denmark, where a lot of people make an effort, and I think it is very good that there are also many who volunteered. It is not the case that everyone has been tested in Vollsmose, unfortunately, and that is why we have also had a discussion here in the Folketing about whether we should not go even harder to ensure that everyone is actually tested. After all, this is an area in which the Danish People's Party and the government agree, but where we could not get a majority for what we among other things. in the government assessed was necessary. However, I agree that many people have made a great deal of effort, and there are a lot of people in Vollsmose who want to have the infection brought down so that you can neither get sick nor pass the infection on to others. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131302	The next brief remark is to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131304	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech to the Prime Minister. Now this is not a steep learning curve for the government, for there have been numerous examples of it in the vulnerable residential areas. Back in late summer we saw it in Aarhus in the Somali environment, we saw it later in Ishøj, we saw it in Kolding, and now we have seen it in Vollsmose. What puzzles me is that it has not been learned from it and that it has taken preventive action in the past. There are other vulnerable residential areas in this country that are located on the other side of Vollsmose. How can it be that the government has been stuck in the brake when it comes to prevention and handheld action? We have seen a criticism coming from Odense that the authorities had simply got off the ground too late. What is the Prime Minister's position on the fact that, if I may say so, you are hanging on the brakes and dragging on a development that you know to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131412	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131413	I really think that we should try to turn that question around. When there are areas where there are persistent and persistently very high levels of infection, is it the fault and responsibility of some others? And is the Left right to say that it is primarily an authority's responsibility to bring the infection down, or could it be the responsibility of the residents? To put it as it is, there is no one in Denmark who can be in doubt about what each of us has to do in order not to be infected and to keep the infection down. We've been living with this for a year. And for the whole approach that has now become the Left's approach, that then you have to translate it into several languages, that you have to go out with a hand-held effort, that you have to do more things: why that? It is fine that the authorities make the efforts they have to make, but we can surely take the opportunity to take the view that everyone who is in Denmark knows what the pandemic is about and what we should do individually. Now also give people in vulnerable residential areas greater responsibility! Everyone has to shoulder their own responsibilities. You have to do that as an individual and as a family. Having said that, we can all end up in a situation where we are infected. It's important for me to say. Clearly, if we look at health care, for example, the people who have been at the forefront of the pandemic have had a much higher level of infection than others have had. But I think that our starting point is that you have to take responsibility for yourself. It is not up to the authorities to ensure that each of us does what it takes, because the advice is well known.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131535	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131538	Thank you. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that we should ensure that the Danes have both more freedom and more responsibility. The dilemma is that the government has not done what Mr. Martin Geertsen proposes, namely to make it more handheld and go where we know and have known for a year that the problems were. It has not been targeted and focused on those areas, but, on the other hand, the whole country has been shut down to a much greater extent than what would have been necessary had it been done, as several of us have been calling for a very, very long time. It has been months since I proposed in a debate that we get these buses to the specific places where we know there is an increase in infection. And as Mr. Martin Geertsen says with regard to Vollsmose, we could read in the newspapers that the infection increased in Vollsmose, and it took a week before effective action was taken. Surely that should be the most important task of the government and the authorities. Instead of keeping the country closed and using the worst tool of all, make sure that the infection is contained where it actually is. For the fact that people are not being tested, I would say that I have plenty of exposure to the people who behave stupidly, but the fact is that once the test cars come in, they actually let themselves be tested, so we saw it among the Somalis, and we saw that in Vollsmose too. So that is simply not an argument, because the fact is, of course, that the government has not taken up its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131658	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131659	Well, I support the fact that the authorities also make local efforts, but basically I do not buy the premise that we have to treat citizens differently because they live in a particular area. Today there are so many opportunities to be tested that it is for me actually a little bit provocative when someone stands up and says: Then you must make sure that they come out to us so that we can be tested at the door. No, of course everyone has a responsibility to go down and let themselves be tested. It is good that there are some targeted initiatives, but I also think that New Citizens are now turning it around. It will have to be the responsibility of each individual citizen. That is where responsibility starts, and that, of course, also applies in the vulnerable residential areas. I believe that at some point the Minister for Integration has said that he is the Minister for Integration and not the nanny, and that is an approach that I also think is right in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131754	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131758	Thank you for that and also thank you from me for the speech. When we were in this situation a year ago, we sent a whole lot of people home from work. The housing associations also sent the cleaning staff home, that is to say, those who cleaned the stairs, because we had to go home and work. So the upwells were simply not cleaned anymore. I would also say that as the infection rises in Vollsmose, it is the same time when the infection rises in Kolding, and the Region of Southern Denmark had all the test capacity sent to Kolding, and that was a terrible coincidence, one might say. After all, the Institute for Human Rights has pointed out that tight housing conditions and also jobs in particular areas are a particular risk factor for citizens with ethnic minority backgrounds. I myself know bus drivers and health professionals who were close contacts but were asked to go to work if they themselves did not have symptoms. So the question for the minister is: did we do enough, including in the surrounding society, to shield this particular group of citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131907	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324131908	I have no doubt that housing matters are important, and we have been able to see this throughout the pandemic. On the one hand, we have heard about people saying that they are just going to the summer house and that it is actually nice to work from home there. But it then takes you to have a summer house, and it requires you to be able to work from home. These are two privileges that many others have not enjoyed along the way in this pandemic. We have also seen examples of how one has been able to deal with infection within a family, for example. has had two bathrooms or that father has been able to live in the basement for a period and the rest of the family on other floors. If you live in a small apartment, and it does not matter what ethnic background you may have, it is difficult conditions. So housing has a role to play. We can also see, when we look down on which employment groups, business-related, have had the most corona, that there are some on the front line who are exposed to more infection. Of course, these elements must be included in your assessment, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132003	The next brief remark is to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132007	Thank you. And thanks to the Prime Minister for the speech. I would like to dwell a little on this, as the Prime Minister said about going harder. I also heard the Prime Minister say this in a question hour earlier, and then the Minister for Health made a proposal to introduce forced testing or, at least, to impose fines on those who had not been tested. I would like to know a little bit about what has been built on the reasoning that it would be appropriate to start putting out fines. After all, the psychologists have been saying for a long time that volunteering and information are extremely important on a proper basis, and then this comes with coercion. I was able to read in the daily press that at least the Ministry of Health had not had contact with the regions, who are responsible for this test. And we have not seen any examples of those who have directly opposed being tested. So the question is: was it in the Prime Minister's Office that, like this, it was thought out that it would be appropriate to start forced testing? And does the Prime Minister think that it is an appropriate procedure to force tests?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132122	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132123	Let us start by making it clear that there has been no forced testing. There has been talk of people having to go down and let themselves be tested, what is an extremely important weapon in dealing with the pandemic, and if you do not want to do so, then there can be a fine and therefore a sanction. I just have to say that when we stand and have to deal with a global pandemic and want to have as open a society as possible, I do not think there is any kind of unreasonableness in making demands on each other. Now we have also made an agreement on the questioner's own party, in which we consider that you have a coronapa for example. to get into a restaurant. I personally think it is a very small price to pay to go down and be tested if you have not yet been vaccinated so that we can open up Denmark more and not bring each other into situations where we bring in infection. We are also being tested here in the Danish Parliament. So I have no problem with making demands, nor do I have any problems with dealing with a global pandemic. And the stronger an organization we have around the pandemic, the more we can open the country up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132225	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then there are no more brief comments on the Prime Minister's part, and then it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to the second part of the reply. Thank you for getting ready for the next minister. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132245	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the floor. Of course, the government believes that it is extremely worrying when large local outbreaks of the coronasmit occur, and that concern is very much in the case of outbreaks of infection in vulnerable residential areas. And, of course, when we see an over-representation of infected people among citizens with immigrant backgrounds, that is also worrying. In week 10 people with roots abroad accounted for 39%. of all positive cases. The group's share of the population is only 13%. So it's a third. This is a problem that we must, of course, discuss, because we must not close our eyes to the facts. Problems we don't discuss are problems we don't deal with. There are many factors that can drive the infection. In some areas, for example: in Kolding, it was outbreaks of infection in schools and institutions, in the other areas, for example. Vollsmose, Ishøj and the northwest neighborhood of Copenhagen, it is certainly a factor that citizens have jobs that require physical attendance, and in addition, people typically live close and have larger families. At the same time, these are areas with a very large proportion of citizens with an immigrant background. We have actually seen the same trends in other countries, for example. in Germany, Norway and Finland. For example, in Neukölln, a district in Berlin where many inhabitants have non-Western origins, it was registered. in October also three times more infected than in the rest of Berlin. At the same time, the decommissioning measures here had a worse effect than in other neighbourhoods. In Norway, statistics show that people with other ethnic origins account for between 30 and 40 per cent. of all new cases of infection. Finally, studies carried out by the Finnish health authorities show that although people with another ethnic origin are only 8%. of the population, i.e. in Finland, the group accounts for a total of 30%. of all new cases of infection. In short, I would be very surprised if culture did not play a role in Denmark. However, whatever the cause of the infection, all citizens have a responsibility to keep themselves informed of restrictions and guidelines, and this also applies, of course, to immigrants. And I agree with the Prime Minister that there is no excuse for not being informed about the risk of infection with corona. The Danish Health Authority has made pamphlets in a wide variety of languages, the Agency for Patient Safety and employees from the various municipalities are on the streets, people are called in connection with the detection of the infection, who are also knocked on doors and talked to residents on their own doorstep, and there are test facilities available lots of places in Denmark. All this is the responsibility of the government and the authorities, and it is also our responsibility. But I have also said that I am the Minister for Integration, not the nanny. Our strongest weapon against infection is our behavior. Each of us therefore has a responsibility, and that is why it is useless to blame society. It starts with ourselves, it also applies to the residents of Vollsmose, and I think both the municipality, Odense, and the health authorities have taken up their task. That is why I should also like to stress that there is therefore also a personal responsibility. Already back in late February, when the incidence began to increase, a number of actions were initiated in Vollsmose, for example. The Danish Agency for Patient Safety distributed information material, telephoned the citizens, Odense Municipality made a task force and offered isolation facilities, text messages were sent to the citizens of Vollsmose, an intensive communication effort also on social media, Abildgårdskolen and Hans Christian Andersen School were closed, large leisure clubs were closed, there was close monitoring of infection rates in schools and in day care institutions, and the police were intensively present. Despite the massive effort, the incidence was unfortunately still high when we entered this month. There was a large group that was not tested and far too few accepted the offer of isolation facilities, although many families live in the area in a way that can be difficult to isolate in the home. So, although developments are fortunately moving in the right direction and we can look forward to a gradual and controlled re-opening of society, we still need to stay focused, because the violent outbreaks of infection must not destroy the reopening. That's why, of course, we're also working on monitoring the development of this disease closely, moving in quickly and hitting corona hard when we see increasing levels of infection. And neither the Minister for Health nor myself nor anyone else in the government has any concern about vulnerable residential areas. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132715	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments, first from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132721	Thank you. I would also like to say to the Minister for Integration, but now it is the Minister for Integration who is standing on the platform that this was perhaps a little wrong, because I think people have the impression that you should almost be put in a leglock and be forcibly grafted with something up your nose or throat, or whatever it may be. I mean, it's really an injunction, and then you can get pulled into your cash or get a fine, and I think that's okay. I have to say that I agree more with the Prime Minister than I am with Conservative and New Civilians to put it plainly. I think what needs to be done and a great deal is being done. But could the Minister not reconsider and perhaps explain it? 'Cause I think that word forced testing seems violent, and that's not what it is. But it must have some sort of consequence if you do not comply with the recommendation of the authorities. What else are we gonna do? We have to get rid of this, and then all the means must be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132821	Well, I actually agree with the questioner that it is the wrong word to say forced testing. In fact, we have adopted a bill here in the Assembly which allows the immigration authorities to force tests on rejected asylum seekers who refuse to be tested because some airlines will not be involved in sending rejected asylum seekers if they do not have a negative coronate. There we are talking about forced testing. And anyone who is interested in knowing what forced testing is can then read the bill and see that it is something completely different from what was discussed in connection with Vollsmose, which was just an injunction. So to the discussion about: What is freedom? It is true that injunctions are a small interference in freedom. You can get a fine if you don't get tested. But I think we have to pay that price so that we can have freedom elsewhere in society. It is also a restriction of freedom that people cannot have their shops open, that they cannot get to work, that the kids cannot go to school, and that is why it is a balance of freedom. There, I think, the Folketing ended up finding a slightly unbalanced balance in the concept of freedom. I am sorry, and I would very much like to take it to the Minister for Health, that the Danish People's Party continues to have the same position, but that requires that some other parties in the Parliamentary Assembly move forward if we are to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132927	The next brief remark is to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324132930	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make a brief comment: the day-care establishments were open for a long time, and there was a long-term one-hour transport to the nearest test centres, etc. My question is this: we know that many of those who live in Vollsmose have a short education. Approx. 25% that those with ethnic Danish backgrounds and there we know that the communication, strategy and approach that are in relation to the corona effort and how to stop the infection is difficult to translate in everyday life. In other words, one could smile a little at the fact that it was said at the beginning that one should use the two bathrooms available, as the health authorities said at the very beginning. What will the Minister do to ensure that it will be easier to translate the various recommendations into one's everyday life when you, for example, are able to do so? works as a cashier in Netto, as a cleaning assistant or bus driver? What do we need to do to make recommendations easier to transfer to the same everyday life and to strengthen the measures where we know people are on a daily basis and where the infection is present?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133042	I know that I have colleagues in the government, among others. The Minister for Industry and Employment, who is in close dialogue with the social partners on how we deal with this whole situation, and I myself have also been a little peripheral, yet I have been involved in some of these discussions with some of the industries where there are many immigrants. I also think it's important for me to say that I also have friends who have lived in Vollsmose, and I have visited them, and there are no small cramped backyard apartments; these are large, bright apartments. And the problem is not that there are too many cashiers, too many cleaning assistants and too many bus drivers in Vollsmose the problem is that too many do not go to work. It is really interesting that it is in areas where we have so much unemployment and where people are not going to work that we see so much infection. I am not saying this to neglect the problem, because I fully agree that there are people on the Danish labour market who have significantly more difficulty living up to the guidelines than people who sit at home with a cup of coffee and a laptop on the couch. I am completely in on that, but we just have to be careful to translate it into low-paid people who are struggling hard in the front line who live in our vulnerable residential areas. Well, our problem is that there are too few people who have a job. I almost wish they were all bus drivers, but unfortunately they are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133152	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133157	Thank you. In line with the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration says that this is, after all, about freedom and responsibility for the individual. I just have to say that it is extremely bizarre for us to call it freedom and responsibility, to resort to methods of so-called shutting society down, even parts of society, where it has no effect whatsoever on the spread of infection, rather than hitting hard and determined where the problems are. Now the Minister says that the government has no fear of touch. That is quite possible, but it does not change the fact that this problem has still not been resolved. If one had now stood as a representative of a party which had struggled for decades to solve the other problems of the people who come from the Middle East, then I could understand that one was a little lost. But you're not. You stand as a representative of a party that has allowed this to happen for decades, and now that we are in an epidemic, a pandemic, you insist on freedom for the inhabitants of Vollsmose at the expense of freedom for the inhabitants of Viborg. It's just crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133309	Well, in relation to the discussion about the requirement to be tested, it was the other way around. After all, it was the government that wanted to be sanctioned if we did not allow ourselves to be tested and subsequently allowed to be isolated. It was precisely to ensure the rest of society's ability to open up and freedom. However, I agree that we have allowed a number of parallel societies to develop. I myself believe that the agreements reached, in fact under the previous government, around parallel societies, are one of the most important political decisions that have been made in this Chamber for many years. I believe that, when we hit 2030, we will not have any vulnerable residential areas that meet these criteria that make you knock out and come on these lists, and that will be a huge social advance, especially for children. But it will also make Danish society better equipped to deal with such crisis situations as the one we are in if we do not have what the former prime minister called holes in the Danish map, that is to say parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133406	The next brief remark is to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133409	I simply think that the Minister is messing with the concepts of personal responsibility. So, how can it be that personal responsibility only applies to people living in Vollsmose, and not to me who are subject to restrictions? I live out at Amager, and I don't live in any ghetto or any exposed residential area. Why does the Minister not trust that I can keep my distance from Mrs Pernille Vermund and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and remember to sprite and that sort of thing, but must be subject to restrictions? Personal responsibility does not apply to me, but this obviously applies to the citizens of Vollsmose. I find that very difficult to see. Couldn't the Minister give us a little bit of personal responsibility and freedom again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133456	I think that personal responsibility applies to all of us, but we have to take society to a place where we can deal with local outbreaks of infection, strike quickly and hard, without dragging a regime beyond all sorts of people who have already been subject to restrictions and guidelines for a year. Therefore, I think it makes sense to have a toolbox that the authorities can open in local areas if local infection occurs. This is the discussion that has been about Vollsmose. I hope, of course, that there will be no new local outbreaks of infection, but it would probably be naive to think that this will not happen. In Vollsmose, it is not yet knocked down; there are still challenges of infection in Vollsmose.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133535	The next brief remark is to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133537	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister thinks that the government has done well enough in relation to vulnerable areas. It is obvious that where there are several generations living at the same place of residence, who have different associations, who may already live close, and who have jobs with close contact with other people in different contexts, there will be an increased risk. If, at the same time, there are some language barriers which mean that they may not be watching Danish television and listening to Danish radio and reading Danish newspapers, then in my optics it will be quite obvious that you had to put in massively with information in such an area, so you were 100% sure that all citizens were aware of what the situation was like. When you have seen such large increases in infection rates, I would immediately say that the government has failed. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133634	To the end, I will say no. I do not think the government, the municipality and the housing company have failed; I do not think so. For me it reminds me of a song from my own youth in Aarhus in the 1990s, where the band TV 2 with Steffen Brandt at the lead sang about a man sitting on a bench on Viby Square and sang that it was all society's fault. It was the integration debate in the 1990s that we have to move away from. It's not all society's fault. We have a responsibility on the part of the government, on the part of the municipalities to ensure that there are test facilities, that the doors are knocked, that materials are translated, that the police are present, that schools are closed, that we follow the infection closely in day care centres and schools. We are responsible for all this, and we are happy to take that on board, and it could certainly have been better. We're doing everything we can. I think we've done well, but it can always get better. But we simply must not conclude that if there is still infection, it is because society has not done it well enough. It is simply a time journey back to the 1990s. We need to insist that people have a responsibility, whether they live on Amager or in Vollsmose. I do not make more demands on those in Vollsmose than on those who live in Albertslund or those who live in Amager, but we must insist that there are therefore the same expectations of meeting the same responsibilities. I think we should hold on to that very hard here in the Parliamentary Chamber or else we will be pushed back to the past here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133751	The next brief remark is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133754	Thank you. In my company there are a great many craftsmen, bus drivers, health workers, warehouse workers and a great many others who have helped keep society going this year, but also a great many former colleagues who have come across employers who refused to allow them to be isolated when they had been closest to them. For a very long time, the infection stop app even said: You have been near contact, you must be tested, but if you do not have symptoms, you may go to work. It's just as much of the people who live in these vulnerable residential areas as they work in areas where they get this message. I have talked to people who were told that they could come to work or they could not come back ever again. So we have not all, in fact, all of us who are so privileged that we can let ourselves be isolated that we can work from home and we can avoid the close contacts failed those who were in the front line and who had the task of keeping Denmark going, because we did not actually make sure that they also had the same good opportunities to be isolated and thus prevent them from infecting others? I guess that's the essence of this question, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324133907	I think, when we come around on the other side of the summer break, that we will start seeing books being published, reports being published about what really happened in Denmark during the pandemic. And my best guess will be that there will also be a chapter or two in those books about the many people who have been at work throughout the period, and how it was possible for them to live up to the guidelines when it was also expected by them that they sat down in the Usage and beeped our goods across the cashier. I am also quite sure that some of the conclusions will be that much could have been done differently and better. But I actually thought, despite all that, that it has been impressive to see how Danish society has been able to change in quite a short time, and how fast people down in Netto accept to stand at a distance, and how fast people start drinking hands before they go in and buy in. For me, the bottom line has been an incredibly responsible society. But I fully understand that when we reprint it all and play it in slow motion afterwards, it will be very clear to everyone that there have been some who have paid a high price, including a lot of low-paid people and people with jobs where they have customer and citizen contact.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324134023	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and also thank you for preparing the platform. It is now the case that we move on to the debate and on the basis of the general rules for short remarks, but in the light of time, I may at some point shorten how many people will have the opportunity to make brief comments and perhaps just one brief comment. But then I'll tell you before you get the floor. The first person to speak in this debate is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324134055	Thank you. Thank you to the ministers. I think it is a very, very good and exciting debate which I clearly think we need right now. It is indisputable that the infection with the corona virus has been large in immigrant-heavy areas, and I think we can all agree on that. Then we can have different views on how to take action against it, but the fact that we agree is at least my feeling. We have seen it on the Copenhagen West Region with Ishøj as specially affected, in Kokkedal, in Kolding, in Esbjerg, in Vollsmose, and it is devoted to this urgent request. We know that 23%. of all those infected in Denmark belong to the group of immigrants, although they account for only 8.9 per cent. I think it was more than a year ago that we had a clear over-representation of the population. We do not yet know how the group of immigrants is composed. It is not necessarily the group of non-western immigrants under one that it is wrong about. What is the rate of infection if we look at the group from the METAPT countries, in other words the government's new group of countries with people from the Middle East, North Africa, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Turkey? We asked that three weeks ago, but we have not yet received an answer. Perhaps I could take this opportunity to say that the ministers must be a little quicker to respond so that we can have more facts on the table. It doesn't look too good. Maybe we can find out what the numbers look like. The causes of the large infection among immigrants are explained by more people by the fact that it is because immigrants more often than Danes live together because they work as front workers and because they lack information. Well, there I just have to say that there are a lot of Danes who work as front workers, and fortunately for that. I find it difficult to understand the lack of information. It is very possible that you do not understand Danish. It is very possible that we should now move out as we do, with many people to tell people in many different languages how they should behave. I cannot help thinking about how expensive it is, but we simply have to do that, and we are doing it, and that is fine. But there are also a great many in the ghetto regions, for example. Sitting watching Al-Jazeera we know that and out there in the world you also have corona. You can actually also see that there are some wearing muzzles and that it is a global pandemic I have just been told by our associate professor Blomme, Søren Espersen, that it is just a pandemic; it is not a global pandemic, because when it is a pandemic, it is actually global, I just feel the opportunity to say it. People know when they're watching TV that it's exploded all over the world. It cannot be surprising at all in Denmark, which actually has quite a good level of information, whether you can Danish or not. You walk around, you probably talk about things, no matter what language it is. So I simply cannot accept that that is why. There are possible explanations that can cause marginal fluctuations, but the reality is that it is not a lack of information, nor can it be blamed on housing either. That is what the Minister for Integration said very rightly. I have also visited many of these ghetto areas, and they are large homes with plenty of space. Many people live there, yes, but there is actually quite a lot of space, and we also know that the moment it is observed that there is an outbreak of infection in that home, you will get the offer to be rehoused. It hasn't always worked out very well, unfortunately, I've read to the places where you've been refurbished. There are many things that have been destroyed. So there are many things that make this very, very difficult. After all, there is still a very high rate of unemployment among immigrants. So it is not alone that you work as front workers, drivers, nurses and sosu assistants etc. The causes are behavior and culture. There is simply a difference in the way Danes and immigrants from the MEAPT countries behave. And now the President is looking very closely at me, and that must be done once the speaking time has been reached. I may come back with the rest, but of course I have to read up a proposal for adoption here at the very end, and it is on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, Conservatives, New Civil, Liberal Alliance and Inger Løbberg: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that 23 per cent. of those infected in Denmark have a non-Western background, but only 8.9 per cent. of the population and that the government did not take the infection situation in Vollsmose seriously in good time. The government is required to strengthen the infection prevention efforts in vulnerable residential areas with a focus on mass testing, infectious detection, isolation and the necessary enforcement. V 96.)
ParlaMint-DK_20210324134606	Thank you to the rapporteur and the proposal here will be included in the further negotiations. There is a request for a brief comment and it is for Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324134613	Thank you. Health workers have now also had the highest level of infection, and this has been regardless of ethnicity. However, I would like to dwell a little on some of the points raised by the rapporteur about culture and the fact that culture has a particular impact on infection. There have been a number of outbreaks of infection over the past year, and it has been in connection with ski tourism, in nursing homes and in day care institutions, some have been related to funerals or parties, and there have been influencers and sports stars who may have taken it from Dubai, and much infection occurs at work. We have, for example. discussed it in relation to the slaughterhouse jobs, and last week we have seen an outbreak of infection in the police and prosecutor's office of North Zealand, which is supposedly the result of a private party and then infection that has occurred at the workplace. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur what causes of a high level of infection in the North Zealand police and prosecutor's office can be found in the rapporteur's report. And how does the Danish People's Party feel that the cultural challenges that can be at stake in this situation should be solved? Is there a culture of those concerned that does not comply with the restrictions of the authorities and does not care about the rules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324134726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324134727	No, I really do not think it can be said in this way that it is a culture. I think that this is a quite a laxity, and I am so opposed to it. I also disapprove of what we saw last summer when young people were partying out at Christianshavn and at Bryggen etc. and collected in large lumps. What is the difference is that when you see, if I may say so, you get caught, i.e. when it is discovered, you actually comply with it. That is the difference, and so in many places you do not do that in immigrant communities. There are several interviews in various newspapers where immigrant boys stand very provocative and say: we don't care, we don't care, we don't want to wear muzzles, we don't want to do anything. There is also the kind of culture that you have a different attitude towards the family. In many cases it can be really positive that you are with mother, father, son, daughter, cousin, aunt, uncle, grandparents, common wife, wife's mother's sister, children's spouses etc., i.e. the very, very large family relationship that you still maintain and where you do not comply with it. I do not want to defend the people, ordinary Danes, who violate the bans. I think it is grotesque, and I cannot help but say, as Mrs Victoria Velasquez raises, that I myself have had a criticism of policemen who do not comply with the rules and then are contagious. That is a little, yes, cross-border, I would like to say. But it's gonna be taken care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324134900	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, round two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324134906	Thank you. But we see in general speaking of culture that many have said, ordinary families, that they are considering having Easter lunch, and we also see in HOPE analyses that support for the restrictions is falling. So I would just like to hear the rapporteur: what do we do about the problems that we see? For as I also listed and as the rapporteur himself did with parties this summer, etc. And so on, this is a national problem. So what do the rapporteur think we can do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324134931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324134931-2	It is not, as such, a national problem. I do not think it is. This is a problem that we are discussing now. It is a very, very big problem in the ghetto regions, and then there are other places, and now Mrs Victoria Velasquez mentions Easter, and I have not been in the negotiations, and that will be enough, but I can tell you that I have been a little sad that the ban on the assembly was not lifted for Easter too. But that has not been done, and I would say that we must comply with the restrictions that exist. I mean, you can't forbid people to do what they want in their private homes, I don't think you should do that at all, and I have to say that I do it myself. I have children, I have grandchildren, and there are countless birthdays we have missed in the last year, and the vast majority of us do, and I think we should do that. I really think we should. Well, I think we'll have an incredibly bad conscience if we don't, and that's fortunately for most people. And again...
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135022	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135024	Thank you for that and thank you for the initiative on the question today. Just as a clarification on the issues that have been raised in the course of the debate from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, it is unfortunately not the case that it is only because there are a great many non-western immigrants and descendants who are out on the labour market that we see the great infection. We do not have entirely new figures, but the figures we have from SSI show that the proportion of covid-infected among sosu assistants and healthcare professionals is twice as high as among Danes. It would be really, really strange if an infectious disease, like everything else, did not choose one skin color, hair color, eye color, and what I know, rather than the other, happened to jump on almost twice as much staff as it jumps on the Danish. So there must be something in behavior, there must be something in the relationships that you have in private and so on that these people, even when you see them in relation to their colleagues, are far over-represented. It was just to get it right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135138	Yes, but I have to say that in the dialogue between Mrs Pernille Vermund and Mrs Victoria Velasquez I clearly lay my lot with Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135149	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135153	Thank you. It sounded nice with this big family... I think my own little family just got small enough, but that's the way it is. There is no doubt that not everyone agrees with all these restrictions now being put into effect, and we have seen this with great demonstrations down here in the front of the Palace Square, and we have heard of artists who were in fact ready to go out and party in the middle of it all and call it demonstrations. So that's a fact. I do not think that is the problem when we get into the residential areas and into the areas where you work and where you are more easily infected than elsewhere. But I am actually curious as to what the rapporteur himself thinks is the solution. I really believe that we have all understood that the rapporteur thinks we have a major problem, but what exactly will the rapporteur propose to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135252	Now it has happened as a result of the recent agreement that certain places are being shut down, and I think that is very sensible. However, I must also say that I think that, and now I use the word'mandatory test' myself, i.e. an injunction with a high risk of being withdrawn from cash benefits or a fine, is quite appropriate. That is quite right. I mean, all means must be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135316	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135317	Yes, but there are some who have experienced it with opposite signs. I have met people who were told not to come back to work and that they would not be paid if they chose to stay at home and be isolated, as the recommendations were. So does the rapporteur not really think that perhaps we have got off to work a little late on the issue of contagious detection and containment and isolation when it is the case that we are infected and that this is something we should all learn more about? I can, of course, hear fellow Members of Parliament who may be in doubt as to whether they should actually be isolated if they are close contacts with children who have been sent home from school because there is an infection at the school. So this is difficult; it can be difficult for us So does the rapporteur not think that information about society in this context may be what works, because they actually managed to break the curve in Vollsmose by means of massive efforts and tests?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135412	Yeah, but we've gotten a lot, much smarter than we were a year ago, that's for sure. We haven't done this, and many of us are thinking, "I can't believe this should happen right in my time." We could have done without that. But now it has happened, and we have become much smarter than when we stood here a year ago. We didn't know much about it. I still remember what a bottle of hand alcohol cost if you could get it at all. Now they're everywhere, and we can just use them. Host masks are everywhere; we can just put them on and remember to put them on. So in many areas we have become much wiser and fortunately for that. Let's hope we don't get into this again. And a lot of things have happened lately, but we didn't know any better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135453	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135511	Thank you. A falck saver recently called me, and he was harmless. He felt ridiculous, and he needed air, for he had just had his third medical transport to a social housing area, where a coronated citizen had to be transported home, and for the third time he saw that the whole clan had trodden up as a welcome committee. Three times, therefore, he had experienced that people who should isolate themselves so that the infection was slowed down did as it suits them, while he himself was standing there in his full suit with muzzle and visor and was now about to disinfect the car after the transport. As the Danish People's Party, New Citizens and Inger Løjberg correctly writes in their proposals for adoption, the pressure of infection among immigrants is therefore too great in Denmark. Part of the infection can be explained by the fact that many foreigners work in jobs where you are in contact with many people, for example. in the care and service sectors. They're doing a lot of work, and I don't want them to hear a single evil word from me. At the same time, however, we also need to be able to talk about the fact that foreigners have taken too lightly the pandemic has taken too lightly the recommendations and restrictions. There has been joint prayer, large funerals, family celebrations... an antisocial behavior at a time when everyone is making sacrifices. But aren't there Danes also looking at the restrictions? Yes, it is, and it is too wrong every time it happens, for the price is paid by the vulnerable groups, children who do not go to school, business and many others. On the other hand, we must also be able to talk about this over-representation, just as we can talk about over-representation in other integration debates. It could be a question of who is on transfer income, who is bouncing into crime statistics. And in relation to corona, the greater proportion of the infected cannot be excused simply by the lack of booklets in large Middle Eastern languages. One must have stayed deep inside a cave in the last year, if one has not heard of the corona virus and the importance of keeping distance, and since I know no one in Denmark lives in caves, the language explanations are therefore nothing but bad excuses. Covid-19 is not a peculiar Danish phenomenon, which is why it could also be argued that there would be information on this damn virus via the countless satellite dishes in the exposed residential areas which ensure access to news broadcasts in dozens of foreign languages, including from the Middle East. It is, of course, more difficult when you live together, but it is no more difficult than that you can take advantage of the offers made by the municipalities to ensure that isolation is followed as well as possible. Several foreigners have interviews with e.g. Berlingske entertained with how much they care. There are, for example: someone who says: "Here in the area we live many large families close to each other, and we see each other a lot. It's in our culture. Or there's someone else who says, "Yesterday I walked by a car out front. Five guys were in the car sharing a joint. No offense, they were just having a good time. I don't think they even thought there's a pandemic. He continues: "But I don't see five, six, seven Danish boys gathered in the evening that way. We tend to think that the rules do not apply to us. That we can't get hit by the virus. There are plenty of people with roots abroad who, of course, do not take the pandemic lightly, and I would like to stress once again that when I criticise this significant over-representation, of course it is not you I am talking about. I criticise only those who look very much at restrictions and recommendations. Of course, most of us try to comply with the guidelines to the best of our ability, and if you do, you should not be insolent in order to get the corona virus, no matter where you come from in the world, because corona can hit everyone, and of course you are particularly exposed if you have a job in a vulnerable position. The government has proposed and taken a number of initiatives, including: increased and flexible testing capacity has been ensured, increased focus on infection detection, and finally, the government would introduce a duty to test. Unfortunately, this could not be supported by the Danish Parliament. I look forward to the continued debate today, and I have a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, which I would like to read out. Proposals for adoption The government is responsible for the possibility of being tested and for the government's guidelines to be available to all citizens of society. But it is not society's fault when people behave antisocially and with indifference. Each citizen is responsible for his or her conduct. • V 97).
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135925	Thank you to the rapporteur. It will be included in the further negotiations. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324135929	Thank you. I really thought it was very good that the rapporteur said those things about the fact that it is not all and recognises that the vast majority of people are often tested and do all they can to break the chains of infection. This does not alter the fact that the rapporteur generally makes it sound as if it were for everyone. I think that the nuance could be nice to get more widespread. But I would just like to know whether the rapporteur does not think that sometimes there is a bit of a double standard in saying, as a government, that we do not want to make a special effort in places where we, precisely in research, show that you are particularly vulnerable when you share rails, share doorknobs, share playground, share laundry rooms, etc. etc. But right below, the Danish Parliament has made its own little test centre available so that we can be tested very quickly. We have access to alcohol, access to masks, which others do not necessarily have access to. In relation to the isolation facilities that we are offered, there were only the same possibilities in Vollsmose, the Friday before the talk was about making these coercive measures, and this could actually be continued. Does the rapporteur not think that there is actually such a little bit of hypocrisy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140046	No, not the slightest bit of hypocrisy, I have to say. The test capacity has been increased, including in Vollsmose, which is the reason for today's enquiry debate. Information material has been distributed and calls have been made at the door of the people. To start comparing and saying that it is hypocritical because there is a test centre in the Folketing, I cannot see at all. In this respect, the Folketing is also a workplace where a lot of people come every day, including employees who do not necessarily have anything to do with us sitting in this Chamber and who need to have the opportunity to be tested. This has been done in a lot of large jobs, and the Danish Parliament, as a workplace, is also a very large place of work. There's plenty of places to do that. You have buses that come out and test and come out and inoculate places where you don't have a large enough workplace to have such a center yourself. There are plenty of such initiatives in workplaces around Denmark, and I think that is only good. But can I see the slightest bit of hypocrisy in this regard? No, not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140144	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140144-2	I also think it is a good thing that we are doing this at the workplace that we are also here and at several other jobs. I think it's been done too late. It may well be that the rapporteur now mentions some measures that have been taken. This was done in good time with preventive action, for example. Gellerup, but you haven't actually done that in Vollsmose, so I think you have actually failed your responsibility. But now the rapporteur is actually addressing something in which I think the Minister previously neglected and actually somewhat ridiculed the issue. It is precisely about some of the jobs we know that more of those working in Vollsmose are at, and that effort has not been made to get the opportunity and access to tests. There are several places where you do not actually have access to the protective equipment you need. What do the rapporteur think we should do to ensure that we actually also protect those who are in front of them and who are on the front of their jobs to an even greater extent?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140238	I think that every employer obviously has a responsibility to create as good a framework as possible for employees to go safely to work, and then the employees have a responsibility to follow the guidelines put forward by the Danish Health Service as well. But the fact that there is a little more distance to test capacity, or that you haven't had a test center placed right out in front of your home rise and things like that, I can't get over it at all. I do not think that you should be carried on gold chairs to a test centre anywhere in Denmark. You have to go to a test centre and be tested sometimes a week, if you are in an exposed situation, or if you cannot isolate yourself, or what do I know; i.e., what needs there may now be for you. So you have to make an effort here yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140321	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140322	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Stoklund for the speech. I heard Mr. Rasmus Stoklund make a proposal for adoption on behalf of the government. This surprises me a little, because there is, in fact, a very, very good vote on the table right now from a number of parties who say it very well. And now something relatively nonsensical came from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, who said virtually nothing. I have learned from this week's discussion about reopening that it is incredibly important that the Folketing stand together and send out clear, powerful signals as many parties as possible. And in relation to immigrants' ghettos, where central rules and guidelines are not respected in the case of corona, we have a huge problem, including about reopening. 'Cause is that gonna start a third wave? We can then scrap all thoughts of reopening in the way that a broad majority in the Folketing would like. So could the Socialists not consider dropping and scraping their own proposals for adoption and standing with us on some significant signals to the victim in immigrant communities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140434	First of all, I'm sorry that sir... Peter Skaarup thinks that our adoption text is meaningless. It wasn't supposed to be. It is more such a procedural thing, but there is something funny when we have to make texts for adoption. It is such a format that you have here in the Folketing and for which I had never really cared much before I became a member of the Folketing. I do not know whether anyone outside the Folketing really cares very much about the texts adopted, but nevertheless. My everyday life would often be much easier if we could just make them together, because often we actually agree on the substance of many of these things. But the problem is that every time I come up with such proposals for example. Mr. Peter Skaarup's party and others, there is always a demand for an addition where one way or another it has to say: incidentally, the government is some fools. And then it's very hard for me to sell the idea to those who sit down here to the left of me, because that's not gonna work. It is simply a bad signal from a government to send about itself that it writes it. That is why we always end up with more texts for adoption, even though we actually agree, and that is a little crazy. I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140532	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140533	Well, excuse me, isn't that factually correct? I actually heard the government itself acknowledge that you've been out too late. Is it not factually true that these so-called incidences in Vollsmose are up to 600-700, and that is quite unacceptable and quite insanely high? Is not all that is stated in the proposal for adoption factually correct, and should we not just acknowledge that yes, we have been out too late, and join in so that we can send out a message across the board to immigrant communities that the Folketing is united that the cohesion that we have in Denmark means that we must also conform to the guidelines that the entire Danish population has had to adapt to in recent months? Wasn't that right? I'd like you to reconsider, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, whether you want to stand firm on your little Hassan instead of supporting what an almost majority in the Folketing would like to have on a broad basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140633	In fact, I think that if the text of the adoption had been worded a little like the penultimate sentences, Mr President. Peter Skaarup said now, it would have been in a common spirit and in a slightly different spirit than it has been formulated now, when it is a little more critical of my party in particular. That is why it seems difficult to respond to Mr. Peter Skaarup's wish. But in addition, Mr. Peter Skaarup is absolutely right that the load can quickly overturn. After all, we are currently seeing what is happening in some of our neighbouring countries, among others. Norway and Germany. This can very quickly develop in a skewed direction, which is why it is very important that everyone adheres to the restrictions and recommendations. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140716	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324140743	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Danish People's Party, New Citizens and Mrs Inger Nøjberg for raising this question debate. I certainly think that there is a lot that has succeeded very, very well during this epidemic. And most importantly, I would like to highlight the general ability of the Danes to comply with the guidelines laid down by the authorities in relation to our dealings with each other, distance, spriting, sneezing in the sleeve, etc. etc. But there is no reason to hide the fact that it has not succeeded equally well everywhere. Figures from the State Serum Institute have shown that citizens with a non-Western background in this country over recent months have simply been over-represented in the statistics on the number of covid-19. There is also the fact, in other words, that many infected with non-Western backgrounds, that has made the disease situation out of control, among other things. Aarhus, Ishøj, Kolding and so now also in Vollsmose. As I believe all the rapporteurs on the floor have said today, we need to talk loudly about this. I am quite sure that there are several different reasons why the disease situation has disappeared in Vollsmose and, for that matter, in the other vulnerable residential areas where things have come out of control. And some of this is undoubtedly related to the fact that more people live under the same roof than on average in Denmark as a whole. Part of the explanation may also be found in the fact that the people living in these residential areas have a particular type of job, which requires a lot of personal contact. But frankly, some of the explanation must also be found in the fact that there is a group of people here who have not sufficiently complied with the instructions of the authorities. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of larger gatherings of young people who have been partying in Vollsmose and who have otherwise failed to respect the guidelines that the rest of the population have had to suffer during the last year, and this is, of course, completely unacceptable. Well, that's one side of the story. But I guess we also have to talk about the lateness that I think has certainly been with the government. So we have seen at several times that the infection in vulnerable residential areas has come out of control. We saw it in late summer, where it was mainly about Somalis in immigrant-heavy residential areas in Aarhus. We saw it in Ishøj in the West, where a task force was set up, and it was never really crystal clear what the real person was supposed to do or what it was doing. We saw it in Kolding, where schools and day care institutions were shut down after a supply of infection in one of the city's schools with many bilingual pupils. And now we've seen things run off in Vollsmose. That learning curve, as I also said in my recital to the Prime Minister before down here from the platform, has not been super steep. The government has known for months that problems could arise in the vulnerable residential areas, which is why I am a little surprised that it is not putting much more massively into the vulnerable residential areas in the form of mass testing, infectious detection, isolation and the necessary enforcement of the law. Why should it always come to the rear when the infection numbers are or are said in other words: should we not have a super fast plan for how to avoid this happening again in the next exposed residential area? The existing strategy has clearly not worked, and I believe that much more hand-held action needs to be taken where more directly, including in the residential areas that have not yet been infected, they are being sought out and asked to be tested and isolated. I think you should get started at the forefront and not come necking after when the damage is that I think it was just as accurate as it could possibly be 5 seconds back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324141146	Well, there's three seconds left. That's it! Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left for using the speaking time right to the point. In fact, there are no brief comments to the rapporteur, and thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. And the next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324141214	Thank you very much. The Corona has been a magnifying glass of inequality in health. Where I live, there's no chance I'll be infected by my neighbor. We do not share doorknobs, handrails or washing machines, and when I do my job, I am not forced to be close to many people, and I can handle a lot from home. If I get infected, I can isolate myself until I'm healthy, and my remuneration still goes away into my account. I can understand the messages we get from the media. I know where I can get information, and notices on the Danish Health Authority's website I can understand. I've only once tried to be near contact. It was overwhelming when I suddenly had to deal with isolation and testing and an empty refrigerator and speculation about how to deal with my loved ones. I got off with a few days until I tested negative. But not everyone is so privileged. In my company there are bus drivers, health professionals, craftsmen and warehouse workers, and I know more who have been infected while they were at work, and unfortunately also some who became quite seriously ill. I don't think we took good care of them. For too long they had to go to work, even though they were close contacts as long as they did not have symptoms. They couldn't stay home even though the teenager had been tested positive, and I've met people who had the choice between going to work and getting a note. And then I have not mentioned the many people who are not entitled to sickness benefit and therefore have to bear the full loss themselves if they are to live up to society's expectations of isolation when you become close contact. Lack of ability is not the same as lack of will. They proved this in Odense when, unfortunately, the infection rate also increased in Vollsmose, but it was difficult. It was not because the residents did not want to participate, but because the Region of Southern Denmark had just channelled the test capacity to Kolding, where there was also a large outbreak of infection. And, as in many other residential areas, there had not yet been any prioritising of cleaning of common upwells and laundry cellars. The Institute for Human Rights has identified tight housing conditions, employment in sectors with citizen contact and reduced health as risk factors for ethnic minorities. We may have high expectations of the citizen's involvement in stopping the infection, but we must also, as a society, ensure that it is possible to live up to expectations. On behalf of SF, RV and EL, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Institute for Human Rights has designated tight housing conditions, employment in sectors with citizen contact and reduced health as risk factors for ethnic minorities. The Danish Parliament notes that a targeted effort in vulnerable residential areas is necessary to break infection curves and help citizens who are at particular risk of serious illness. V 98).
ParlaMint-DK_20210324141513	Is the proposal for adoption by the SF? Kirsten Normann Andersen Yes, and the Radicals, I think). We'll just have to find out. So far, I have at least noted a proposal for adoption by the SF, which is part of the further negotiations. Kirsten Normann Andersen I think someone will say something along the way). Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I would therefore like to welcome the next rapporteur, who is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and that is Mr Arndt's report. Kristian Hegaard. There may be some technical problems with the ride, but it's going now. Welcome to sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324141659	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. It is good that speaking time only starts when you start saying something and not when the lift starts. No citizen in Denmark wants either oneself or others to have corona. That is beyond question. We are doing well; we are standing together; the vaccines are pulled out, and this is done effectively thanks to skilled staff. I have experienced this myself when I was vaccinated a month ago and there is a large reopening agreement in the country. This can only be achieved because we are in a situation where the behaviour of the people has made it possible. In this pandemic we have also confirmed that there is inequality in health. It is a fact that people with short or no education, low incomes and tight housing conditions are more likely to be infected and that ethnic minorities are more employed in frontline functions, where you are more exposed to infection than those who have home jobs, is a fact that we cannot enchant, even in this urgent question. Thank you to many of you who have performed social critical functions and have been exposed to greater exposure to infection, whether you are resident in Vollsmose, Hellerup or Gellerup. This has helped to get Denmark through the crisis. Sociodemographic conditions play a role and make some more vulnerable than others, and this is a pattern we see around Europe and the rest of the world. It's structural. It is not because of culture, but because of the structures of society, just as we have seen situations in Europe with football fans, ski tourists and slaughterhouse workers. But does that mean everyone behaves? I wish it were. For of course, when you hear about the police in North Zealand, who have been having a party, or about young people who organise private parties, or then too many crowded together on Islands Brygge, which led to a stay ban. Of course, the recommendations and guidelines should be followed, both on the villa road and in the residential area. It has been positive to see the communities in general residential areas uniting to break the infection when it has been too high. It's been a part of breaking infected curves. It can succeed, and it has succeeded, when we spread knowledge of isolation facilities, when information material becomes easily accessible and in different languages, and when residents voluntarily flock to the test centres. Many of these areas are best in testing, and thank you for that. Hang on, and hang on, we're gonna be okay, both on the villa road and in the residential area. It's going well. Other countries are shutting down. Although it is a little cloudy today, spring is on its way. It is Easter next week and there is further reopening on the way after a broad agreement is reached. This is very good, because what we really know is important for the behaviour of the people is when politicians cooperate and stand together on the challenges and do not point their finger at each other. It strengthens people's confidence, gives less polarisation, and that is what Denmark so much needs in this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142053	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142056	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard for the post. I have to say that I am quite appalled that the Radicals are not taking this seriously at all. We have a debate, not generally about corona today, but about the particular situation that in our ghettos in Denmark we have a widespread infection and lack of effort to comply with the guidelines that have made people unable to celebrate birthdays, cannot see their parents, cannot be together in the way we would otherwise be able to do in Denmark. That is the debate we have today. That there is just what I am saying to the Radicals here that I would like an answer to that. Is this really just structural? Is it really just that some people live together, and that's why we have this wildly widespread infection in, for example. Vollsmose? Or is there actually the absolutely basic problem that there are some who do not bother Denmark who do not want to comply with the simple guidelines that are, to prevent corona spreading? Is that not the real problem, that is, that there are some simple guidelines that the majority of the Danish population would like to observe, but that some groups do not want to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142212	First of all, I would like to reject the idea that the Radical Left should not take this situation seriously. We very much do, and I addressed that in my speech as well. When there are places where there is too high an infection, of course there must be action. That is why I am delighted, when this is the case, that we are doing this by providing better information on isolation facilities; when we have better access to tests; when we disseminate information better. It's helping to break the contagious curve. That's what's interesting. That is what is crucial when we succeed in doing so. And in this time, the Radical Left is also among those who have been involved in most of the agreements. So the Radical Left takes this situation very seriously. We shall continue to do so. All those places where there is too high a level of infection, we need to make a determined effort. We have done so and we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142258	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142259	But does the Radical Left not actually risk a third wave or widespread infection in certain residential areas, so there will be regional closures in the future because there are some groups that do not bother Denmark and do not want to follow the guidelines that we others do? Isn't that what you're risking? It is true that the Radicals have taken responsibility for a whole lot of agreements, but we just have the huge problem that the government has been too late in fighting infection in these ghetto regions: the immigration-heavy ways in which it is a huge problem not to comply with basic guidelines on alcohol and to keep a distance and something like that. It's really so earthy. Can we not just help with the rest of us to try to fight that challenge instead of talking about achieving, it is probably something structural about some people living together?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142351	It's structural. That is what we have been able to see in various European countries. And I would also like to say that, of course, I am concerned that we can have a third wave when we look at what is happening in the countries around us. It's shutting down. There are several things you can't do. There are several restrictions on the way. It is therefore gratifying that this week we have a broad reopening agreement with virtually all the parties of the Folketing. It is not every country without that possibility at the moment. Denmark has had it because we have done well together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142422	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no more brief remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142458	I think that this debate deserves to get some facts straightened out. There have been many outbreaks of infection of corona across the country; it is serious. Some are caused by infection from animals to humans and back again, others have started in slaughterhouses or in day care centres. Originally we got the virus to Denmark with ski tourists who came home from skiing in Italy, and initially the infection was highest in the richest municipalities in North Zealand, Gentofte and at Frederiksberg. So having to discuss an outbreak of infection with an urgent request to the Prime Minister in this Chamber is, for us in the Enhedslisten, an unsympathetic and desperate attempt to turn a national health crisis onto talking about foreign policy and beating out a town that over the years has had to pay attention to the unspeakable attacks of the world. Instead, we believe in the Enhedslisten that what we witnessed two weeks ago with the government's proposal to introduce coercive testing and forced isolation without having the necessary basis in place should lead us today to apologise to the citizens of Vollsmose. That would be appropriate, and I also believe that we in this Parliament should in fact inspire and back up the huge effort of a great many volunteers and local residents who have overcome the outbreak of infection and who have resulted in record figures for the proportion being tested. By the way, if you follow me in the public facebook group "Best-Test Vollsmose," you can see a lot of volunteers, active people, young people and older people who are making a strenuous campaign and information effort to get even more people to take tests in the middle of a time when we see more analyses that support for the restrictions is falling. So it is encouraging to see and witness that work. It can of course be said that this is just what we expect, but it is encouraging to see, not least because it is a testament to the fact that inhabiting democracy and society takes the situation seriously. For it is time and again everyone in the Vollsmose boxing ball for ignorant demagogues, and I apologise for that to all of you who follow this debate. Long political discussions on the impact of cultural conditions on the pressure of infection are likely to have the same effect. Because it has never really been about finding open-minded solutions to why the infection has been high. On the contrary, positions have already been drawn up long before the debate arose. In terms of research, we have seen evidence and evidence that it has a significance that people in Vollsmose live about seven times closer than in the rest of Odense. It is important that in general housing buildings we share the laundry cellars and playgrounds and that many people grab the same door handles that are not sufficiently cleaned and use the same handrails. And there are more people living in the district who work as front workers such as bus drivers, taxi drivers, cleaning workers, cashiers and others, and there are also many young people and the like. And we know that a high-risk industry with physical presence also spreads the infection more. But regardless of who is right, why the infection is higher, we should actually share an answer to the high pressure of infection. That should be solidarity and compassion. To be honest, there are no people who want to die or lie sick with corona and spread the infection to, for example. their grandparents. It's not like people walking around in Vollsmose are walking around with a death wish. It is important that we continue to test ourselves and it is important if we become infected that we isolate ourselves and that we make it a habit to be tested regularly and, of course, stay at home or use the isolation facilities if necessary. We must continue to do so. But summa summarum: An apology is in place, I think. Finally, I would also like to say a huge thank you to all the volunteers and to those who have been on the front line working throughout the Corona crisis, and to conclude by supporting the adoption text that the SF has read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142919	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. It is noted that SF's adoption text is supported by Enhedslisten. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324142928	Thank you. For many years I have been practicing in the Danish Parliament not to be provoked, and I had to do so during the Enhedslisten's speech as rapporteur. So I am not the least provoked; I take it quite calmly. However, when Mrs Victoria Velasquez talks about solidarity, it is, in fact, precisely the main issue today that is solidarity, regardless of whether you live in an immigrant area, a ghetto, which is what this is all about. And so there is a lack of solidarity, to the very highest degree. And that's what we're discussing. One should not hold such a greasy speech, I think, for a particular electoral segment. And I have to say that this is how I saw the Enhedslisten's rapporteur's speech to the highest degree. Elections have not yet been held, and this is not the Fælledparken; it is actually Parliament's speaking chair that you stand on. I just want to say that it is parallel societies that are at stake. There is a general opposition to Danish authorities. There is a greater listening to the Imam than to the Danish authorities. And there are cultural, family and social differences. That's what this is about. And I so wish that all parties could deal with it without fear of touch. Because we should be united in this matter and say that there are problems; the figures in the ghetto regions show that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143043-2	Thank you. It is good that we are good at not being provoked. I could also have been provoked by the triangular drama of bringing Mrs Inger Løjberg to her party and the fact that the Prime Minister is being called for an urgent question is also something that could be provocative. It's actually serious that we solve this problem. When we see that there is always a discussion of it in relation to culture, without we actually looking at what kind of answer we find to solve this problem, I think it is particularly worrying. But it's not just for this side of the story. That is just as much in relation to the government as it is in relation to the government. I do not think that we have taken responsibility for making the effort in good time and for doing the preventive work that needed to be done. We know what measures are actually going to help, and that has not been done in time. And I think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143133	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143134	I just want to continue: there is also poorer hygiene. Just look at those kiosks and restaurants with the many sour smileys. Hygiene is a very, very large part of this. There is just so much evidence that it is quite wrong. There is an indifference towards society and the community authorities, which one does not listen to or respect. Well, I just wanted Mrs. Victoria Velasquez to say that there are no problems there. Because that's what I hear. There are giant problems. Yes, there are other places too, but the difference is that one is primarily following the instructions one gets from society. In fact, we are making an effort to do so. You do that in many places, but still not in the ghettos.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143224	I fully acknowledge that there is a problem. I think that what we are seeing, unfortunately, is that one obviously wants a different approach when it comes to Vollsmose than when one sees it elsewhere where we also have a problem. In addition, I fully agree with the matter of cleaning. It was wrong to send the cleaning staff home early in many places. It is still a problem that cleaning and hygiene are not given enough priority. Pizzerias and eateries are one thing, but in fact it also applies to the canteens and dining places, many of the places where people eat. It is also a problem in their jobs and, in the same way, also that they run the risk of being exposed to infection and have no access to protective equipment, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143303	Then there is only one more brief comment, and Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143305	Thank you. I would like to continue where Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard started with her first brief remark, which I fully endorse. I also stumbled over this with what Enhedslisten means by that Vollsmose has been prygelknabe for years, or how it was exactly it was formulated. Is Enhedslisten aware that there are quite massive integration problems in Vollsmose and that there have been for years? That's one part. The other part is about an apology. Well, it seems to me completely bizarre that someone here should owe an apology to someone in Vollsmose. I don't understand that at all. And then I would like to know who, as was said, are ignorant demagogues. Can't we get some names on it? Who is it? Some names would be exciting. Finally, could we not also have an explanation of what it might be when we have this over-representation? For over-representation means that there are more here when compared to comparable groups. Is it because there is something in the water in Vollsmose, or what is it that could be the explanation if culture is completely excluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143407	That was a lot of questions. Let us address the first, the apologies and why I think there should actually be an apology: this is a matter, for example. the fact that the whole basis for talking about forced testing and forcibly isolation was wrong. It was on a misinformed data basis. I think that is actually quite serious. The second point is in relation to the question, and that is something, for example. Politiken has raised those parts of the epidemic law where it is said that the voluntary measures must have been there beforehand. It was on Fridays that we were offered the opportunity to have isolation in Vollsmose, and so soon after that we are then talking about coercion instead of engaging in voluntary efforts, which we know would also help to ensure that we received support. Now I see that we have six seconds left to answer here, so the rapporteur can follow up with the other questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143506	I'll give it to you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund option for half a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143517	Then I'll move on quickly to what we didn't get around. Who are the ignorant demagogues mentioned in Mrs Victoria Velasquez's speech? Who are the ignorant demagogues? And if it is not culture that explains anything, is it something that is in the water of Vollsmose, or what is the explanation for the over-representation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143539-2	After all, we have evidence that the fact that many people live together and that many people live in the same level of housing, which is typical of general housing, is one of the things that, for example, is the same. has a meaning. It is also important to have common land. For example: You have shared washing machines and common playgrounds. You do not have a private garden where you can play, nor do you necessarily have two bathrooms that the health authorities talked about at the beginning. So there are many of the things that are involved there. Then we also know that many of those who live there have short courses and have jobs that are on the front line, either in the form of unskilled or skilled work, and in which you are part of the front staff. So these are some of the things that we have evidence of have an impact on how the infection spreads.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143628	Thank you to Mrs Victoria Velasquez. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324143657	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, New Citizens and Mrs Inger Løjberg for raising this debate. After all, there is no doubt that the government has so failed in a number of areas in relation to the management of corona. We saw, for example, how the infection rates in the municipality of Ishøj from week 42 just grew and grew to an incidence of over 1,100, almost 1,200, right up to Christmas. It then spread to Greater Copenhagen, where the incidence was close to 800, roughly the same figure as that observed in Ishøj, which is after all a small area with only 10,000 inhabitants. We have seen that this kind of situation has been dealt with locally by the municipality, region and the Agency for Patient Safety in cooperation. This was done in Aarhus, as was done in Slagelse, and also in Silkeborg with good results, because you simply put in and made a great effort. But to take the example from Ishøj, where you just let the incidence number grow and grow and more and more were infected until the figure reached as high as almost 1,200, I would say that it is so fatal. As a government, we should have learned from this, that is to say, that we were too late, and that is why, as soon as there was danger in Vollsmose, we should have been able to see that the infection rates began to grow, that the information was available and that it was tested massively. If you then find that there has been no communication at all with the Region of Southern Denmark, which is responsible for testing, then it is surprising that there is a demand for forced testing. It is also in stark contrast to what we were exposed to in North Jutland, when the focus was on the mink situation. There we therefore had a situation where the government claimed that there was now a great risk that all vaccines around the world could be useless because there was now a mutation here which was quite terrible. We have then been able to see that it has cost us an incredible amount of money, 19 billion. kr., and that an entire profession has been wiped out. We have done what I would call an attack on a lot of mink farmers who have had to see their livelihoods disappear and their livelihoods completely changed. So the conclusion of this is that the government has actually failed fatally and has not taken it seriously that action should be taken in the areas where the infection rates have increased. And in the areas we are talking about, it is obvious that there have been some who have not been aware of what was going on and there was simply too little information. I would strongly recommend a united Parliament and, of course, the Social Democratic Party to vote in favour of the proposal for adoption which Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard read out. In fact, there is nothing negative about the government; there is a demand to do mass testing, detection, isolation and necessary enforcement, and nothing negative about the government, even though there might actually be good reason for doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144044	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144048	Thank you. I'll be damned. Let us now say that the Conservative rapporteur is right in saying that it is all the government's fault that the infection is rising in Vollsmose, that the accident is in progress. We have two different views on what this is about, but peace now be with it. Then we suggest: Okay, there must be a requirement for testing, and if you don't let yourself be tested, you can get a fine. The accident's in progress. What do you do? Are you voting yes or no to that requirement? It is exactly the same requirement that we have had for admissions to Denmark, namely that if you do not allow yourself to be tested or isolated, you may be fined it is not coercive, but a duty to let you test. Conservative votes no. I just can't believe it. On the one hand, it is believed that there is a huge accident going on, and then we come and say that we have to put in a little harder, because with a huge voluntary effort it has not worked, and what do we do? Then you vote no. Can the rapporteur not help us and explain why?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144149	Yeah, I'll try as best I can. After all, all the neurologists say that volunteering in dealing with a pandemic is the way forward, and this principle of minimum size ought to apply. And we can see that there has been no dialogue between the ministries and those who are responsible for the test strategy and testing in Vollsmose, namely the region, in relation to whether, like anyone opposed to being tested, we have not seen examples of this. It has just been said: we simply need to make an innovation. We have had the pandemic for a whole year, and in many ways it has gone okay when people have allowed themselves to be tested and isolated subsequently by volunteering. We've seen that working really well. And then you make such an innovation here without being able to show that someone has opposed being tested. I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144247	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144248	It may be that the rapporteur can help me a little with this innovation. Well, the requirement for testing and a fine, if you don't let yourself be tested at the airport, was introduced on February 7. And there is a requirement that you allow yourself to be tested if you are to attend an upper secondary education. Now we have a requirement for testing, where we have said that if you are not tested, and there was approx. 1,000 or more who didn't do in Vollsmose despite a huge effort, you can get a fine. So I really do not understand the concept of innovation. And I simply do not understand why, if you think it is the government's fault that the infection is going crazy in Vollsmose, you are voting against this requirement to make sure that the latter come along and are also tested when it is obviously not done by voluntary means.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144330	Well, this is an innovation when you introduce a completely new principle in relation to the voluntaryness that the neurologists recommend you should pursue. In fact, we were also presented with something that the neurologists subsequently said they had neither lot nor part of, in relation to the fact that in Vollsmose the fines were to begin to be imposed specifically. So in my optics, it was an innovation. We have been telling the public for a whole year that we are calling on them to be tested, and we are providing test capacity and making it easily accessible and nourishing in all possible ways the population in relation to having them tested, also in relation to being isolated if they are infected. I think that is a very good principle, and that is why I do not agree with the Commission's proposals as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144420	Thank you. Time is very advanced. There's only 15 minutes left. I would like to make one brief comment by Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt and already advises that the next rapporteurs will not have access to short remarks. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144432	Thank you, President. I must admit that it is strange to hear the Conservative rapporteur here. In the last session we made one tightening after another in relation to all the problems and unrest that are in the ghettos. We agreed there that if you commit crime in the ghettos, it must be punished extra hard. There are some separate problems here, which can simply justify some harder tools, some harder interventions than otherwise. And then here we are on the corona side with the very same problem: a lot of people in the ghettos who will not abide by the rules. But now the Conservative People's Party does not want to say that there must be special sanctions here. Now there are all kinds of other considerations. While we and the Social Democrats, who were involved in this whole tightening up earlier, say that it must, of course, have a consequence if you do not want to be tested and thus put the whole of public health at risk; if you do not give a damn about society and just lurk around without being tested; of course it must have a consequence. We know very well that most of them live on other people's money, namely transfer income, so why on earth have the Conservatives now become so soft on their knees when it comes to ensuring public health when, in the last session, we wanted to impose tougher penalties in the ghettos?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144541	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144542	We are certainly not in any way soft in our knees. If something is going on that is not right, then of course action must be taken. That is why we also welcomed the fact that the police must be allowed to sanction if there are some in Vollsmose who do not use muzzles. There were clear examples of this, that is, there were simply some who stayed in a place without using muzzles. Of course, you cannot have that. However, no examples were shown that some would not have allowed themselves to be tested.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144617	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is clear and, unfortunately, as I said, short remarks cannot be made. Welcome to Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324144643	I think that many Danes would like to look forward and get rid of corona and get out of the government's iron grip. So do I. But in this speech, I would like to start by turning the calendar back to 2020. When corona had ravaged a few months, the Statens Serum Institute announced that among the infected there was a violent over-representation of immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries. In one of the summer weeks, more than half of the newly infected immigrants were infected, and when Aarhus was severely affected by infection, it emerged that two out of three of the infected people had Somali background. The re-opening phase four was postponed, and I was indignant about how immigrants and descendants from the Great Middle East seemed to be completely indifferent to the Danish community. Now the calendar shows 2021, but unfortunately things have not changed. There is an extreme over-representation of the infected among immigrants and descendants with a non-western background. The rate of infection among non-Western citizens has been almost three times as high as in the rest of society. On 3 March, Jyllands-Posten wrote that non-western immigrants and descendants have amounted to 23 per cent. of the infected this year alone, while they account for 8.9 per cent. of the population. The government has kept society closed longer than necessary because there has been no control over the infection in the immigrant dense areas. We have known about the problem for almost a year now, but the government has not given priority to managing the most important task, namely to detect sources of infection and to concentrate efforts on the specific and restricted areas so that the infection was effectively contained. We have seen how the incidence rate in Vollsmose was allowed to explode from 153 on 15 February to 743 on 25 February. After a decrease in incidence it has now risen again in Vollsmose to 645 while for the rest of Odense it is only 129. Now we have this urgent question which I and New Citizens, together with DF and Mrs Inger Løjberg, have called for; a question debate in which the Prime Minister has to explain what she thinks are the reasons why the pressure of infection in Vollsmose is significantly higher than elsewhere in the country and where the Prime Minister has to explain how the government will solve the cultural challenges in Vollsmose and other ghettos. These are major problems that stand in the way of effective and safe management of the epidemic, which is a danger to the rest of society. Four out of ten adult residents in the country's ghetto areas do not go to work and support themselves. I do not know, but it sounds likely, and the figures indicate that there is a strong connection between life in the ghetto's parallel society and indifference to helping to keep the infection down, a life in which time is exchanged between the water pipe café, the local bazaar and gatherings of cousins in the ghetto's idleness, spreading infection and inviting to irresponsibility and indifference. I have been criticizing for a long time that the government is shooting with dispersal instead of targeting where the problems are. I have long criticised the fact that the Danes have to pay such a high price because there are still problems in stopping the infection in the dense cities and areas of immigrants. I have also been criticising for a long time the fear of touch which I believe has been the reason why politicians do not stop the damage and say things as they are. Imagine how free and secure we could live together in all respects if we had not had Muslim parallel societies in Denmark. Let us now grasp the root of the nettle and solve the problems from scratch. The government should strengthen the prevention of infection in the ghetto areas where there are problems. This should be done with the necessary enforcement, focusing on containment and testing and tracing and isolation. And then society must be opened without coronapas. The Danes deserve to get their lives and freedom back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324145105	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. We are moving on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324145120	Thank you for the floor and thank you for calling this debate. After all, it is no secret that there is a great excess of people with a large Middle Eastern background who are infected with covid-19. In May 2020, the State Serum Institute published a report which stated that the group, although it is only 9%. Of the population, 18% accounted for. of the infected, and the study was repeated by the SSI in October 2020, and then the situation was worse. Then the same 8.9%, to be exact, stood for almost 26%. This is a result of what the authorities have established in other countries. An article in Jyllands-Posten on 4 March showed that it is a picture similar to that of Denmark in Norway, Germany, France and the United Kingdom. And what could be the reason for this? If you ask Morten Sodemann, who is professors of something called immigrant medicine, about SDU, then the causes are not cultural. He rejects that, among other things. in an article in the journal Ræson, published on 11 August 2020. Instead, the professor says that the cause is poor housing conditions and risky working conditions. And here's where I'm gonna have to weary the Folketing with some sociological professionalism. For what the professor says is not just nonsense, but it is a particularly advanced form of sociological nonsense called social determinism, which Enhedslisten and Radical Left have already served us earlier today. Social determinism is a belief that everything can be explained by social factors. If you get bad grades at school, the cause is social conditions, you get too thick, is the cause of social conditions, you can't find a boyfriend, it's probably also social conditions. Social determinism as a cause explanation hardly ever lasts. There is almost always another joke, and it is not so rare that something else is at stake, the phenomenon of culture, and it is here too. Immigrants from the Middle East are experts, if you can use the term expert, in something that there is not a Danish expression, so I have to use what you use, namely non-compliance, i.e.. non-compliance with rules. There is a higher average in the number of immigrants from the Middle East who do not comply with the order rules of schools or police order and do not comply with the law. That is why social worker Ali Aminali, who himself has an immigration background, says also in an article in Altinget on 12 March as a direct criticism of Morten Sodemann, whom I mentioned earlier, that it is culture that leads to a greater frequency of infection. This is among other things. Fatalism, that is to say, that you think the future is in hand, but it is also that you come from countries where you cannot or should not trust the authorities, and that is what the French President Macron calls Islamic separatism, that is to say, the perception that you have your own society and that the surrounding society is not something that you have lost and shared. I myself do not think that there are easy solutions to this problem, because it is part of a much larger problem which no one has managed to solve yet, not even outside Denmark. But we are at least discussing social determinism and sticking to the fact that the individual has a responsibility, and I hope that we will get that out of today's debate, even though it may not, after all, and unfortunately, move very big. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324145527	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl for the speech and also for getting ready for the next speaker, who is Mrs Inger Løbberg as a privateist. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324145545	Thank you, and thank you for the floor. As others have said here today, this is an important debate. No matter how we turn it, the ghetto areas stand out negatively, and this time it is in the corona. But we see it over and over again: it is unemployment that is crime, and now it is corona where far more are infected in ghetto regions than elsewhere in Denmark. Everyone can get corona, but several statements, as has also been presented here today, show that there is a grim over-representation among non-western foreigners and their descendants. For example: Jyllands-Posten was able to demonstrate at the beginning of March that no less than 23 per cent. of all infected people this year at that time belonged precisely to that group, and this must be seen in the context of the fact that non-western foreigners and their descendants account for 8.9 per cent. of the population. In other words, there is an enormous over-representation. There have been many explanations, and there have also been many explanations, today about why the figures appear as they do, from the fact that it is because of the work that this group is doing, to housing conditions and playgrounds. All sorts of explanations have been given, but no matter how we turn it over and about it, it is very much a question of whether or not we conform, and that is, unfortunately, also part of the explanation of why the pressure of infection in the ghetto areas is as high as it is, namely that too few people conform. We have seen that particularly non-western immigrants have gathered together in large assemblies for funerals, big prayers, common prayers, weddings with chain dances and other things, and it is simply unacceptable that all of us in this way try to conform to the restrictions that are now in place. It is quite clear that, among non-western immigrants, there is a disrespect to Danish authorities, and that is not only when it comes to corona, but, unfortunately, quite generally too much, both when it comes to the police, but also when it comes to health authorities and what they recommend. Too many simply don't care what the rest of society is trying to conform to. That is why we need to make demands to reduce the number of infections, and that could be the introduction of test obligations, the obligation to isolate them, for example. areas like Vollsmose, but also other ghetto areas, and that is why I think we have to say it plainly: you have an obligation to conform and comply with the rules in Denmark, that is what all of us are trying to do. And I might as well say this as it is: many of us are extremely tired of looking at the fact that there are too many people in these areas who look very much at standards and rules that all of us are trying to conform to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324145915	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration for the final remarks, and there will be only a few very brief concluding remarks. Welcome to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324145930	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate here today, and the time is well advanced, so I would just like to make a few brief comments. One is for SF's rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, who says that the pandemic has been a magnifying glass of inequality in relation to health. I kind of agree with her on that. I would add that today's debate shows that the pandemic has also been a magnifying glass for the integration challenges that we face, including the challenges that we face in a number of vulnerable residential areas, for example. in Vollsmose. I think we should be careful to turn this into a either-or-discussion; that is, it is either because people live close and have citizen-facing job functions, or that it is only about culture. I guess it's both, and I think it's essential to hold on to that. The second response is to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, who says that the government has failed; the information effort has been too poor. And here I will probably stick to what I also said in my introductory speech, if you take Vollsmose as an example. I think that regardless of whether you take the efforts of the Danish Health Authority, the Danish Agency for Patient Safety, the efforts of the City of Odense, the work of the housing company or anyone else who has been involved in the work in Vollsmose, I think that the Danish authorities have actually done an excellent job. And I think it would be wrong to conclude now that it is because the authorities have failed that we see such high levels of infection. We must bear in mind that it is not all society's fault; people themselves have a responsibility. And that is at least the most important thing that I am taking with me from this debate, namely the need for us here from the Parliamentary Chamber to say a little more clearly that we cannot sit back and point our finger at them at Christiansborg or at them at the City Hall if an infection develops in the community of which you are a part. You also have to tighten up a little yourself. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150131	And thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Yes, there are probably many who would like to speak, but unfortunately the two hours have been spent, and that is the end of the debate. I would point out that the vote on the many proposals submitted will take place on Tuesday 6 April.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150150	I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, will be answered in writing. 2 (pm. No. S 1180) to the Minister for Justice, by Mr. Kristian Hegaard (RV) is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. At the same time, I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, has been taken over by the President-in-Office of the Council. 6 and 7 (pm. No. S 1187 and S 1189) to the Minister for Health, by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby (V), are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) No. S 1193) to the Minister for Children and Education, by Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard (V), is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. Finally, I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr Vandemeulebroucke, has been taken over by the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the No. S 1182 and S 1184) to the Minister for Culture by Mr. Kim Valentin (V) is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150226	The first question was put by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150235	Here you go, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150238	Thank you. Will the Minister make a stay in a Danish summer house with a foreign tenant or on a campsite for a worthwhile purpose if the tenant can show a negative covid-19 test at the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150258	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150259	Thank you for the question. Now we are in the situation that we are in common on the framework agreement on the plan for the reopening of Denmark, and it appears from it: the negotiators note that the government is working to open up travel with coronapas as well as anti-infectious measures, provided that the authorities consider that data from the countries concerned are valid and reliable. However, to fill in that part I think we should actually do together, i.e. I would like to invite the nine parties in the Danish Parliament to a dialogue on how to ensure that we deal with entry and border restrictions in the future, on the one hand, to avoid the spread of the disease unbridled and, on the other, to ensure that the relevant recognised purposes are recognised. So I actually imagine that at least the parties in common will have to find out, and I just wish that it was the questioner who will be the representative of the Left in that talk, but I cannot interfere with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150412	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150413	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much for your answer, and yes, of course I am completely on the goal of the agreement we reached the other day, and I am glad that we have made that step forward, but we are not in the end. Somewhere else, this is at least a repetition of many séances we had last year, which were about exactly the same thing, and I am very concerned that the government, like what unfortunately happened last year, is far too slow when it comes to giving the opportunity to have a rental certificate for a Danish holiday home or perhaps a campsite can be recognised as a worthy purpose and when it comes to the fact that the tourist industry, particularly along the west coast of Jutland, is given the opportunity to survive in a very, very difficult situation. But thank you to the Minister for the invitation, and it can only go too slowly. So when does the Minister intend to invite negotiations on the interpretation of that part of the great framework agreement for the reopening of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150532	It is quite true that we are not in the end. After all, we are only in the finish line when society is reopened, and the framework agreement that has been drawn up reflects this very fact that there is still infection in our society and that we have to deal with the fact that, on the one hand, it does not run away from us and, on the other hand, we want to open up. And when we look at the border, we have to say that the countries around us are in a situation where part of them are in the third wave, on their way in the third wave, Germany is particularly hard hit and there are restrictions in many other places, and that is what must also be weighed up in the dialogue that we must have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150607	I am quite clear about that and we are in no way inclined to act recklessly. Just like last spring, of course, it must be health-friendly. But I just want to remind the Minister for Justice of what actually happened last year: Out of the 10 million nights spent in Danish holiday houses, by German guests, 10 infected were identified. So that's not where the source of the infection exists. Is the Minister aware of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150641	I've heard the number, I haven't actually seen the basis for the number. I think that there are some differences in relation to the situation last year, and it is certainly not to talk it down, it is so in all probability, but I think it makes a difference on the positive side that we can operate with coronapas, because everything else equal will coronapas be a way of opening up. I think it is a matter of concern that we have some types of infection which, thankfully, we see not so much in Denmark, but which infect significantly more and which we have to deal with. After all, these are the balances that we need to strike in order to do what the questioner also says, namely to find a level that is sensible and sound in terms of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150721	Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for her last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150722	I will return to my previous question, because the Minister did not answer that question: when does the Minister intend to invite, that is, of course, the first thing to happen, but when will the government suggest that there will be an opening, understood in the sense that it will be recognised as a worthy purpose to have a lease for a Danish holiday home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150749-2	If you run through the agreement that has been concluded, you will see that it is quite comprehensive, there are very many points that need to be implemented. We are in the government right now setting up a larger setup for how we can implement the different parts, when it can happen, etc. There is no interest whatsoever in not getting started as soon as possible with these dialogues. I do not have the health assessment, which must be weighed with, in relation to when we can open up to, for example. The summer cottages, and that is one of the foundations on which we should be asking ourselves, so I cannot give a specific answer to that question today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150824	The question has been answered and we thank the Minister for Justice and Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. We move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Health, and that has been asked by Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150838	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150841	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that evidence of vaccination against covid-19 must provide access to open facilities in society, such as the country's outdoor amusement parks on an equal footing with the display of a negative coronatest not more than 72 hours old?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324150904	Yes! Yes, I agree with that, and it is also one of the three entrance doors in what is becoming this coming and now very much mentioned coronapas as it has been baptized. There are three different ways to get it. One is a negative test as the question is said to be max. Seventy-two hours old. The other one is over vaccination. And the third is if you have antibodies after having had the disease. So, if you've passed the infection and you're no longer contagious and you have antibodies, there's also a certain period of time when you can get into these different parts of society. This is one of the things that the parties in the broad agreement reached on Monday have agreed on is a premise that we can open up in these sectors earlier than we would otherwise have done. And it is clearly one of the keys that we in Denmark can make use of the broad test effort for it, and I look forward to it very, very much. So the answer in short is: yes, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151013	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151014	Thank you. Indeed, as the Minister has just mentioned, it was also part of the reopening plan on which there was a broad consensus and which was concluded on Monday. Does the Minister also think that vaccination itself can thus be the key to visiting the country's cinemas, restaurants and, frankly, hairdressers? I need to hear a little more about how the Minister thinks it will work in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151055	I do not think we should tell anyone that there will be any trouble along the way. Of course there is. But this is simply a way to ensure that we use our test capacity. And we have a very, very large test capacity in Denmark, and we have worked hard to get that up, and we have it up now. We need it to open up these sectors earlier. It is, of course, the small hairdresser, the large cinema and everything that we need to open up and which our economy and those who work in the sector also need to open up. And that's exactly where you can use this coronapas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151130	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151131	I can say that there are some who, at least here and now, cannot quite understand that, if you have been vaccinated, it cannot give access. This is among other things. amusement parks. I have one of the big ones close to where I live and where I am chosen, and that is LEGOLAND. They understand that although grandmother has been vaccinated twice, grandmother still has to pass and be tested before she can enter the LEGOLAND Park. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151211	Yeah, well, that's the rules today. However, the agreement was concluded the day before yesterday and will enter into force on 6 April, just after Easter. And that is where we have to start going in with what are called the sectoral partnerships, where the amusement sector and all the other sectors go in and find out how to deal with this coronapas in the future and that work has already started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151243-2	Finally, I would like to say that I understand from the Minister that the Corona Pass must provide access to the amusement parks as well, but the theme parks are not yet able to do so, because, as is currently the case, at least in the guidance they have received, vaccination cannot provide access. Does the Minister therefore believe that these amusement parks are dressed well enough to handle the opening, which will take place this weekend?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151320	Actually, I don't know if they are. I am not in close dialogue with that part of Denmark, that is, our amusement parks. But we have our authorities that are part of this sectoral partnership. And now we've made an agreement the day before yesterday, and what this is all about now is ensuring that these sectoral partnerships get together and figure out how to put this into practice. Specifically to the question put by the questioner, I would like to say that it is the case that the corona Pass, with completed vaccination or testing, or where the disease has occurred, will also provide access at that time to the outdoor amusement parks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151403	Thank you. The question has been answered. We will continue with the Minister for Health and Mrs Anni Matthiesen to the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151410	Here you go, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, to read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151412	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is both logical and reasonable that you should go to the hairdresser at Bornholm where close contact is inevitable if you can simply document a complete vaccination against covid-19, while documentation for a completed covid-19 vaccination is not accessable if you want to explore e.g. LEGOLAND or one of the country's other outdoor amusement parks where, according to experts, the risk of infection is minimal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151443	The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151445	With great respect, I would say that I almost believe that this question must have been put before the political agreement. Yes, of course it is now that I have to think about it last Friday, so it is before the political agreement. And full respect for it; these are the conditions under which we have to work. I believe that the agreement we have made here is both good, logical and reasonable, but it also goes further, and when compared to the situation on Bornholm and I think it is wise to do so, I would say that Bornholm has been a bit of an experiment, where we have been able to make some experiments, because the island is geographically located as it is, and because the infection has been low. And then, of course, we have done it, that we have set in motion some things that we have followed very closely, and we would then, if it were successful, be able to implement it in the rest of the country. This is exactly what is happening now: that some of what you have had to do with the hairdresser at Bornholm, you can also do with the hairdresser in the rest of Denmark from after Easter and so on. So that is simply the reason. As far as the difference between vaccination and a negative test response is concerned, that difference is eliminated because both are going to count equally in terms of accessing these different parts of our society, which we can open up a little earlier thanks to this. So it's going to apply both. This also applies to the other way, because I have seen some people on social media who think that the vaccine is now forced into the back way. It is by no means, because a negative test is exactly as accessory as a vaccine is, and you can then choose to have a negative test if it is that you do not want a vaccine for various reasons. I appeal to and call for a vaccine, but there is no compulsion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151638	Now, I'm gonna try to get to the amusement parks a little bit compared to trying to find a solution. Because it is the case that many open next weekend, that is to say on 27 March, how many families, including grandmothers, who have been vaccinated, would like to take a trip in, for example. LEGOLAND. But with the way in which the guidelines are screwed up right now, you're going to reject grandmother even though grandmother has been vaccinated twice. And that's where I can't really understand: when you can go to the hairdresser with proof that you have been vaccinated, why can't you get inside the LEGOLAND Park, where there are 150,000 square feet of outdoor space to move around? It takes Grandma around the test center before she gets to come inside. Does not the Minister somehow think that there could be something here where you could quickly give a helping hand and say: Of course, when you can go to the hairdresser with evidence that you have been vaccinated, you should also be able to do the same in an amusement park?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151751	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151752	So, as far as this hairdresser is concerned, it does not apply at national level until 6 April; so that the hairdresser in Billund can only open on 6 April. So that is the date we have agreed, and until then I think the questioner is also talking about a new thing to check up on as an amusement park. We have the MyHealth app, and there will be a new app, plus that you can choose to write things out, so you have it on paper if you don't have a smart phone and have the app installed. These are some things that need to be done, so it takes a while to make it work in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151828	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151830	But will the Minister simply confirm here at the end: does this mean that on 6 April Grandma will be able to visit the LEGOLAND Park if she has been vaccinated twice without having to be tested within 72 hours, which is perhaps what the rest of the family choose to use as a way in? Does this mean that from April 6 you don't have to stand at the entrance and check these things, but can shut Grandma inside if she can prove that she has been vaccinated twice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151909	Yes, it is in the political agreement, and it is certainly also quite clear that it must be something we plan with the sectoral partnerships so we do so in cooperation with LEGOLAND and the other parts of this sector. However, we are working hard to ensure that the setup is ready for 6 April, both for the hairdresser and for the various parts of the open amusement parks, so that both can be admitted from 6 April. That's what we're working hard on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151941	Thank you. Does the questioner have an extra question?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324151944	No, I would say that this is what I am going to report back to the LEGOLAND Park: that they will just have to drive a week when they check Grandma once again, but that from 6 April it should be possible to let in those people who have been vaccinated twice without any problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152002	Yes, I must ask the rapporteur to say hello in LEGOLAND and say that is how it is going to be. They still have to check if there's any evidence that vaccination has been completed. But yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152016	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. The next question for the Minister for Health is Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152029	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152032	Thank you very much. Does the Minister agree that the Capital Region has spent 90 out of the 141 million? kr. that has been added to raise the quality of psychiatry to pay off debts, and what does the Minister intend to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152050	Thank you very much for the question. I would say that the funds are given here for one clear purpose: to ensure a strengthened capacity and more staff in regional psychiatry. I know the rapporteur also believes that this is so much needed in all five regions, but it is particularly needed in the region in question. I have also read the article on which the question is based here, and I have to say that I am immediately as puzzling as the questioner about the priorities set out in that article, and that really makes me sorry to read. The funds are intended for more hands and more seats, but also for better places, so that we can help to reduce the use of coercion and so that we can improve the quality of treatment and reduce re-housing and all of this, which we know we are suffering so much from, and which employees, patients and their relatives are suffering as a result. That is why, as far as possible, the funds must, of course, be used from the outset for what they were intended to do. It is, of course, a lasting boost that we have introduced with the Finance Act and a lasting boost that was so much needed, but the funds will then also be used for what they were intended for, and not in 12 years' time. Because I understand there is such a little debate about whether we can perhaps benefit in the long term from reducing some leasing or whatever, but no, it must be now and here, we must have lifted it, and then there must be a lasting boost. I have therefore asked Danske Regions via the Capital Region to explain the region's use of psychiatry funds last year, now and in the future. A number of committee questions have also been raised, to which I will return with a reply when I get a statement from the Danish Regions and see what this gives me cause. I have to ask them that, of course. Now I have an article and I need to get clear answers from them on what is up and down the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152258	I am very pleased that the Minister takes it seriously, because we have at least heard a great deal that the Minister and the Socialists have been out to boast that 600 million have now been paid. kr. to the psychiatry. It is a psychiatry which we all know is cramped and which is even more crowded under corona, because there are a lot of people who have felt mentally ill. Many of them have not been able to get the treatment and hospitalization they needed, and at the same time there have been some incredibly tight conditions because they have been packed and because there have been all the restrictions, so there has been even more need for them. So the question is, why haven't you done anything more for this money? It's not just the Capital Region. In North Jutland, 60 million have been paid. kr., and there 23 of them have been used elsewhere. And the two regions both mention that they could not be used, and then I think: Wow, we're talking about a psychiatry that we all think really needs money, both to hire people and to do other things. I can't believe you couldn't figure out how to use them. And then I wonder how, when answers are received from the regions, the minister can ensure that the money that has been put off and the money they have now spent on something else, they must add again, plus the next money, to the psychiatry and not be drawn out to anything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152424	That is exactly what needs to be followed up. It is true that when we concluded the agreement on the use of these funds with our regions, it was agreed that this boost should be reflected in better standards and in increased capacity in different places. I know that concrete construction has been set in motion and so on, and we are also informed of this, which is really needed. It's gonna be a while before they get there, so here and now we need to see that money coming to the benefit of our psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152457	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152457-2	Could nothing be done by the Minister? After all, there is not much time left for economic agreements to be made with the regions, so as to ensure that we know what amounts are being spent. And now the next 600 million. kr., one knows that the amount of psychiatric treatment must increase accordingly. Will the Minister not go in and do something to ensure that this money given to the psychiatrist stays in psychiatry?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152524	Yes, we have agreed with Danske Regions that as part of the coinage agreement, we are following up on specific points: the development of the number of beds, the level of expenditure for the psychiatric area, the development of the number of hospitalizations and the development of coercion in psychiatry. These are four key parameters, and there we will, ahead of the forthcoming debate on an economic agreement for next year, make such baseline levels so that we can clearly follow it and, of course, will also be ready to act on the basis of what we are told.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152600	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152601	This is something we have had up several times, including with the previous government, namely that once money has been given to psychiatry, they disappear. There is a responsibility for the regions, and the question is: how do we do it so that the money will be there when money is set aside for the psychiatry? Because we just see bigger and bigger differences between somatics and psychiatry. So the question is: will the Minister ensure that the money that is being given and the promise that will be given are done?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152637-2	Yeah, that's my job. I understand that we are being asked this way towards the end of the question, because it is the height of frustration that we are working hard here in the Folketing to secure something that really needs to be done, namely our psychiatry, and then our Finance Act actually succeeded in getting a large, not just one-off, but lasting boost in, and that is one of the things that we always hear is what needs to be done. It provides quite specifically strengthened capacity, more staff. That is clearly the purpose of the agreements. So it is my job to ensure that it is, of course, translated into reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152712	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Health and to Mrs Liselott Blixt. The question has been answered. The next question is to the Minister for Transport, and this has been asked by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152729	We need to get a little distance between the Minister of Health and the Minister of Transport. Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152743	Thank you. What does the Minister intend to do to resolve the problem of the electricity lines on the Brande-Esbjerg route, which is an obstacle to the transport of wind turbine components to Esbjerg?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152757	Thank you for the question. This is a good and relevant question, which I regret to announce that I am not the right person to answer. Challenges with electricity lines, including the dialogue with electricity companies to find a solution to the specific electricity lines on the Brande-Esbjerg route, are not under the Ministry of Transport's remit, which is why I must be relatively brief here. However, as far as I understand it, there is a practice that is about the industry being able to agree directly with the electricity companies in order to change the wiring. However, the issue falls within the area of the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply, and I would therefore urge the questioner to put the question to my colleague.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152841	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152842	Thanks for not answering this. I shouldn't really say thank you. It may say a little bit about what we are dealing with here, because I put the question to the Minister for Transport quite correctly and was told that it should be converted to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. I did so, after which I was told that it was still the Minister of Transport who had to answer the question. It may say a little bit about what kind of a case we are dealing with here, then, a matter that the government is not in any way concerned with finding a solution to. I think this is really, really a pity, and it is particularly regrettable that the Minister of Transport, as a member of the government, who is a collective, has stood at the port of Esbjerg and said that something must now be done, that something must be done and that we must resolve this challenge, which is to ensure that important wind turbine components can be transported from Brande to Esbjerg. Does the Minister honestly believe that this is the only way to brush it away and say that I have nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324152945-2	It is the case that there is a practice in the industry where wind turbine producers and others can ask for the conversion of power lines and finance it themselves, and that practice has existed for many years. It's true that I've been at the port of Esbjerg and also passed on these messages. And I can only call for direct contact to be made, because, as I understand it, there has been a practice that has been quite well functioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153016	So it must be understood that the minister is completely whistling indifferent to the pardon of the language, President. At least that is how I see the reply from the Minister, namely that the Minister does not give a damn about whether a viable and workable solution can be found, so that we can maintain jobs both in Brande and, of course, at the port of Esbjerg. It is essential that a solution be found to the problem of wire hanging, which is an obstacle to this particular transport. Does it really matter to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153050	As I am told, it can be done, but it obviously requires the industry to make contact in the way that is now practice. Like I said, it's not my resort area. If it is the case that some dialogue or other is needed, then I should like to pass it on to my colleague, but of course the question could also be put directly to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153120	I must confess that I think this is a strange kind of shift of responsibility to which I must be subjected here by the government. Why did the Minister not say exactly that when the Minister was at the port of Esbjerg? There the Minister advocated that action should now be taken, understood that the Minister would, of course, take the lead in this. In any case, that was the impression that the Minister left behind. For my part, however, I can at least say in this Chamber today that this is not a matter of concern to the government. As I said, I was thrown around between the Minister's colleague and the Minister himself, and the Minister then took it to heart and agreed to reply, but then we in this Chamber are completely disenfranchised and say: that is not my resort, some private players just have to make themselves comfortable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153208	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153209	If it is the case that there is a need for help in a dialogue, then of course I am happy to help in that. But it is also clear that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs has not been present on that day at the port of Esbjerg. Because it is quite clear that I am being put in words which are in no way consistent with what has been said. I have indicated that I would like to help convey any needs that may exist, and I am still happy to do so. But I think that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, with her very long experience in politics, should keep too good to shoot me quotes in the shoes which are not in accordance with the truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153247	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and thank you to the Minister for Transport. Then we move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Defence, the question has been asked by Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153307	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth to read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153313	Thank you very much. Is the Minister still of the opinion that it is not relevant to answer questions concerning the support of the defence and preparedness for the killing of all Danish mink herds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153325	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153326	I do not recognise that there is no answer to questions related to the defence and emergency services' support for the health authorities' action against coronasmitte from mink. There is the answer to over 50 questions, held several consultations and even a question debate. The questioner has, and I acknowledge this, shown a particular interest in the tasks in which both the preparedness and the defence have entered into, and it is, as you know, very important to distinguish between the task of the defence and the preparedness. In relation to that, I can refer to the previous answers in FOU, Question No. Question No 101, and Question No 101 by Mr M.O.F. 107, where it is described what this division of responsibilities has been and what tasks have been performed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153415	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153416	I'm a little surprised. First of all, let me stress that the reason why we ask so many questions to the Minister is not some personal vendetta against the Minister. That's because we feel we're not getting answers. And that is why we have been here again and again in consultation and question debates etc. etc. But before Christmas, we sent over a large number of written questions to the Ministry, and there the Ministry replied that it was simply not intended to answer that question. And the task of the Folketing is to control the government, but it is a little difficult to control the government if it is the case that ministers refuse to answer questions. So can the Minister confirm that we have sent a great many written questions over which the Minister has not replied?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153453	As I understand the question put by the author, these are the questions which have been answered in FOU, Question No. 101; and in MOF, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian But I would very much like to invite the questioner over for a cup of coffee, and it could then be that it could clarify it. Then we can discuss what it is that the questioner does not think he has received a concrete answer to. I can see that questions are being asked and then references are being made to the answers that have been given, and that is because I, the defence and the preparedness, believe that these are the answers that are right. But I think it might be useful to have a cup of coffee, and then we will have to discuss what it is that the questioner does not think he has received an answer yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153535-2	Well, listen, the Defence Committee has sent a joint letter to the Minister, complaining that our written question will not be answered. Does the Minister recognize having received that letter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153546-2	Yes, it is quite true that a letter has been sent but, as I understand the question put by the questioner here, reference is made to some specific questions which I consider to have been answered, and that is why I propose to the questioner that he should come over and have a cup of coffee, and then we can talk about what questions he thinks have not been answered, otherwise it will be a little pseudo-debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153611	Sir. Marcus Knuth for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153612	Well, now we have one, I do not know how many years old, tradition that we can ask written questions to the Minister, and the Minkskandalen is one of the greatest scandals in recent Danish political history, and the Minister simply refuses to answer the questions. Now I just ask quite simply: if we send our question over again in writing, will the Minister reply to them, or will the Minister continue to choose not to answer them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153637	The questions to which the honourable Member refers have been answered by me, by the defence committee and by the agency responsible for emergency aid. Question No 101, and Question No 101 by Mr M.O.F. 107, and that is why I propose to the questioner that he be invited for a cup of coffee, and then we can discuss what it is he feels he has not received an answer to yet. Because, on the one hand, the defense and the Emergency Board feel that the answers have been given and, on the other hand, there is a questioner who does not feel that he has received an answer to what he wants to get an answer to, and I think that is best done with a cup of coffee. Of course, the questioner is always welcome to send the questions again, but if the conclusion is that the same thing is being referred to, we are in the same way, and that is why I would recommend a cup of coffee • I would certainly like to invite you to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153721	Thank you. Then we move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Defence and asked by Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153729	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153731	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that Danish soldiers sent to Iraq are not offered a vaccine against covid-19 before deployment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153739	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153740	Thank you very much for the question. Danish soldiers deployed on behalf of Denmark on international military operations must, of course, have the best possible conditions for their efforts. This is generally true in relation to their safety, and this is true in relation to the possibility of being vaccinated against infection with corona prior to dispatch. The fact that soldiers have not yet been vaccinated before deployment is due to the fact that the health authorities have not yet completed vaccination of vulnerable groups and health professionals. Danish soldiers live up to health requirements before they are deployed, and when they are deployed, the defense does a lot to avoid infection, among other things. by the fact that the soldiers must be quarantined before deployment. If infection occurs, it will be dealt with and, if necessary, a soldier can be evacuated home to Denmark. But it is clear that our soldiers must have their vaccinations as soon as possible. We are also looking at their planned vaccination according to the vaccination calendar to ensure that it is not delayed because they are deployed on an international mission. This is why the Ministry of Defence has gone into dialogue with the Ministry of Health to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153901	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153902	Thank you so much. I have just visited our Conservative Councillor, Peter Sporleder, in Aarhus, where he is a regular priest and is about to leave for Iraq as a chaplain. He and the other soldiers going down to team 2 need to be quarantined 14 days before they leave. When they go home on leave and back to Iraq, they have to be quarantined again for 14 days. It's a whole month of their mission, which is typically about six months spent sitting in an empty barracks room in quarantine. It's a complete waste of time if you ask me. Now the Minister is saying that there are vulnerable groups in the front line. Of course, I understand that. But does the Minister not think that it would be a priority to have our soldiers vaccinated, both so that they do not have to sit twice 14 days in quarantine and so that, when they are actually in the mission area, they should not be afraid of being infected with covid-19 beyond the security threat that exists?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324153958	I very much agree with that. That is why, as I said, the Ministry of Defence is in dialogue with the Ministry of Health to find a solution to what I quite agree with the questioner is a challenge. I believe that we must do everything we can for our soldiers, for our people, and of course there must be a balance. But the problem right now is that we do not have vaccines to be able to vaccinate the entire population of Denmark, and it is therefore the health authorities who have to give their opinion on when we can start vaccinating soldiers. In this context, however, I have made representations to the health authorities to flag the fact that there is a group here to which we must pay particular attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154044	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154045	So this is the time for the soldiers to leave. It is here and now and not in 1, 2 or 3 months, so frankly I do not think the Minister is acting fast enough. May I ask when the Minister went into dialogue with the health authorities to get the vaccine for our soldiers. After all, it has been known for a very long time that our soldiers should be deployed, not only to Iraq, but also to other mission areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154107	I raised this issue in February.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154112	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154113	May I ask: why has this not happened before? It is a long, long time ago that the Minister was told that we should have soldiers for, among other things. Iraq, not to mention many of the other missions that have been known for a very long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154124	The minister for the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154125	Well, there is no doubt that this issue has been the focus of our eyes since the vaccines came to Denmark. But it is clear that it is the health authorities that have the vaccination plan, and it is therefore to the health authorities that this has to be lifted. That is why the Ministry of Defence has now lifted it over to the health authorities, and some balance needs to be found, because the Ministry of Defence itself does not have vaccines. If the Ministry of Defence had it and could prioritise the vaccinations, it was another matter, but here it is the health authorities who are looking at the big picture, including the consideration of vulnerable and others, and when it then fits into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154209	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. We'll continue with the Secretary of Defense. We will continue with a fellow party member of Mr. Marcus Knuth after the despriting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154232	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154235	Thank you very much. What can the Minister say about the dialogue between the Ministry of Defence's Property Board and the ISS in order to dissolve the Partnership Agreement, including the Minister's attitude and involvement in the matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154251	I would like to stress that I am also impatient for a solution to be found because we cannot be aware that our soldiers, civilians and volunteers do not have proper conditions. Therefore, the solution is either that the contract with the ISS ends or that the ISS starts delivering what they have to do, according to the contract. The fact is that the current contract with the ISS is in need. The defense does not get a proper service and delivery, and our soldiers, civilians and volunteers, who every day go to work to ensure the safety and security of the Danes, and who every day make an invaluable effort for Denmark. That is why my position is quite clear, and it has been for a long time: this is an unsustainable situation, which is why I have also given the Ministry of Defence's Property Board the mandate to negotiate with the Attorney General a possible early termination of the contract. The negotiations are conducted in a confidential space and therefore, for reasons of confidentiality, I cannot tell you what the status is in the negotiations, and it is obviously because some negotiations are difficult to have in the public domain.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154401	Of course, I very much agree with that. The question arises, of course, because we have had a few consultations on this, in which the Minister gave a mandate for the very termination of the contract. Since then, as recently as last week, I received an open letter about the conditions on the Danish garrisons signed: Yours sincerely, the Danish soldiers. I am reading straight away: that is simply not satisfactory. The Danish soldiers at the country's garrisons will be offered dinner, which consists of a small sandwich on white bread and a bit of cold cuts. It is simply not okay for sergeant students who suddenly need more than 150 kroner. on food during the day, when they only get su. That is why I would like to ask the Minister how we can avoid bureaucratic friction in this matter and simply move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154452	I would like to repeat that I am also impatient for a lasting solution to be found. So we fully share that ambition. Since it is a debate, it is a little difficult to set a deadline on it, and therefore I cannot say anything concrete about the content or timetable of the negotiations. I would also like to say, and I think this should also be made very clear, that the real estate agency cannot and will not enter into an agreement with the ISS at any cost, because it is of course fair that, on the one hand, when we believe that the ISS has not delivered it, they should, that there is also a proper and fair agreement in relation to a possible cessation, or that they are starting to deliver what they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154537	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154538	After all, we are very, very much in agreement that it must be done properly and, of course, it must. Yesterday, Sodex sold their business. There are other companies that can't do this either. My personal thought is a little bit to ask: What does it take to go from bad to very good in relation to the ISS? What's the price for that? Will the Minister try to investigate that relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154615	After all, there are two results of the negotiations that are going on right now. Either the ISS starts delivering what they must and are committed to, according to the contract, or the contract ends, and then other ways, better ways, to service soldiers, volunteers and civilians are found. I would just like to point out that it is important that it should not become a criticism of the individual ISS staff, and I think that is important to say in this Chamber today because it is not them. They work and work hard out there. So the important thing here is to say that a solution needs to be found. It is untenable that civilians, soldiers and volunteers do not experience proper service and that there is bad food and all these many other stories we have heard. A solution must be found to this, and there are two possible outcomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154708	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154708-2	Thank you. I had hoped that the Minister could say that we will make it in 2021. That would have been great. The letter I have received from the Danish soldiers, I will just send it over to the Minister. There are many things you can comment on in this regard. So I'll give you that right over to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154725	I am always happy to receive letters from the questioner and we have a common interest in finding a solution to this and, of course, as soon as possible. However, given that there are contractual constraints and that agreements have to be reached, I will not set a deadline, but I would say that I am also impatient to find a solution. So let's follow this regularly and together, and I'll also invite the questioner in this round for a cup of coffee, and then we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154801	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Secretary of Defense, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Niels Flemming Hansen. The next question is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, who is asked questions to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154820	Here you go, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, to read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154825	Thank you for that, President. The first question is: will the Minister answer whether, in the view of the Minister, the government is doing enough to create new education and training opportunities outside the major university towns?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324154840	Thank you for that question and for the opportunity to discuss this really important issue. The government has an ambition that, no matter where you are young in our country, you have an opportunity to take a course of study regardless of where you come from or where you live. The Government has already implemented several measures that contribute to strengthening higher education provision outside the major cities. In my time alone in the training and research chair, more than 20 new training facilities have been approved outside the four major training cities, including, for example: diploma in engineering in Sønderborg, a nursing training station in Herning and a professional bachelor's degree in tax in Randers. All are examples of training where there is synergy between local companies and jobs and training, which forward-lookingly deliver new qualified labour to parts of Denmark located outside these four major university cities. In addition, last year we concluded an agreement with the Danish Parliament's parties on several training places in the light of the covid-19 with a special look for seats distributed throughout the country, and most recently, just before Christmas, with the support parties of the government, we have found 50 million. kr. to specifically strengthen welfare education outside the major cities. At the same time, I would also like to emphasise that abolishing the re-priority contribution is a really important part of this too, because green harvesting is only hitting smaller educational establishments outside the large cities harder. We still need to do something, and we have very great and clear political ambitions for this. I think there will be a need for quite tangible measures to actually reverse this development, and we have initiatives on the way to that. We will put forward a bill in April on education branches, making it more flexible to create new ones, and it is a great deal of many that we will be joining in the coming period, when there will be good opportunities for training throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155058	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155100	Thank you for your reply to the Minister. It is almost a pity that we could not get the whole answer, because so far what came out was really positive, and I think that is really, really good. It is probably not a big surprise that my focus is, of course, on what I know a lot about, namely the northern part of East Jutland, not least around Randers and so for that matter Djursland. And that's where you're having a hard time. There you have a hard time, both because you are located geographically between two major university cities, namely Aarhus and Aalborg, but also because all experience shows that once you have lost the young people to some educational city, it is really, really difficult to get them back even after they have completed their education, and therefore they are lost forever. There are some experiences that show that if you move from an outer municipality to a university town, only one in five will return during your lifetime. That is simply not good enough, and that is why I am only glad, and would have expected the government to go in and say that we have to do something about this in relation to better balance. Therefore the question is: What is it you want to do in relation to not least a city like Randers, who always has the challenge that they get shot in the shoes, that nothing can be placed in Randers, because there is something in Aarhus, and because there is something in Aalborg that reminds you of it, and therefore you are covered in here. That is really the excuse that has been heard from many years ago, even when I myself was mayor, and that is what we have been up against all along. This is also what we experienced when, otherwise, this branch of nursing training started very positively. It was not a full education that was placed in Randers, because there was the thing about that one had to read on in, I think it was northwest Jutland etc. So we need some of these branches with which the Minister is barring, we need something that is clean, long higher education. So although I actually think that what is so far is positive, I also think that what the Left has put forward, namely the 7 000 additional training places and the 100 million. kr., is fine in line with that, and that is why the question that I will come up with in the last few seconds I have: how much extra money will the Minister think that comes with this plan in April?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155309	We'll come up with the plan when we bring it in, and there won't be much time for that. But I would say that I think there are good tactics in the Left, but I think we should go further than that, because I think we need more than 100 million. kr., and I think more is needed than talking about money. I would also like to say that in relation to a town like Randers, because one thing is that the economy must be linked, but if there are no young people reading in Randers, because there is ample opportunity to read in Aarhus and Aalborg, it is a double-edged sword, it is not only money, but also a question that we look into a period of falling youths and with larger and larger searching towards the big cities. And if we do not take political responsibility for this, we will see further centralisation, and the government will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155353	And that's exactly the core of it all. That is why we come to what is also sensitive to some people at least but which is also necessary. Because if you want a real balance, just as when you relocated state jobs and the like, you also have to move in the goose-eyes some education from some cities that are otherwise really popular. So, frankly, when you have falling adolescences, and if you want there to be an opportunity to study outside the major university cities, you have to move some of these educations, and then you have to do so that it is not finer to read in Aarhus or Aalborg versus for example. Grenå or Randers. That is, of course, the thinking they will have to go in and get to grips with, even if it is sensitive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155431	It is exciting that the questioner also reveals some of the perspectives. Because I don't see that in the Left. I see 100 million. kr.; I see that one thinks one can buy oneself from it is. But the last time you tried to buy yourself out of it, when you spent 160 million. kr. At the training stations, which I thought was an exciting idea, it ended up with a great deal of proof that you just can't do this with money alone. And that's why we need to talk together about what else needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155459	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155500	If you put on the positive glasses, I interpret it as saying that it was not quite a rejection of what I said was necessary. It's with the positive glasses on it. With the negative glasses on it would be that there was no answer. But let's keep the positive glasses on and say it's necessary to do some of these different things. I know, I have also tried to be young myself once that you would prefer to live in the middle of the canal in Aarhus or in the middle of the square in Copenhagen. 'Cause it's just funny. But there everyone just can't live; there everyone can't study. And that's why you're gonna have to make some concrete decisions too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155537	That's right. I am not answering a hundred per cent of what the full game is that the government is doing, because, as I said, it comes in its entirety when we put it forward. But what I can only note is that the Left has at least made a bid for the Left's initiative, and there are no such ideas, and I therefore take note of the fact that there are parts of the Left sitting against me here who think that we should go further than simply discussing money, but also some of the other gripes here. I am delighted because I think we need a process in which we have an openness to have a great many different tools in play if this strong trend is to be reversed, and I think it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155613	Thank you. The question has been answered. It is the Minister for Education and Research who must have a question from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155625	Thank you, and the question is very much in line with what we have just been talking about: will the Minister answer whether, in the Minister's view, there is a need to adjust the pre-qualification requirements for the creation of new education and training opportunities outside the major university towns, so that more educational establishments will be able to create attractive education and training opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155646	Thank you. As we were just around, the government has great ambitions here and fully shares the view that this is a way to get educational opportunities throughout our country • it's really important. However, I do not see that having to go through a pre-qualification system in itself is an obstacle to obtaining attractive education outside the large cities. After all, every time we create something, we have it through an assessment of: Does it fit the needs of the labour market? Replaces other education in the vicinity, etc.? And I really think that this exercise is both healthy and right, because there is no reason for us to create things in a row that then closes something else. The RUVU's job is to assess all these parameters, and in the end it is my job as minister to make the political decision, in terms of what is approved and what is not approved. And I actually think that these demands are basically reasonable, but at the same time I am also open to whether or not we should do other things in terms of how we assess these different positions for and against. Among other things: We have experience, I think, when it comes to saying that the more anchored it is locally, the more there is a local business community that demands it, the more there is ownership in the municipal forces the asker knows himself how much it means that there is some political ownership locally also • the stronger is the educational offer when it comes out. That is why, in the near future, I will also have to deal with the new branches and so on. weight local ownership and local anchoring quite high. Nor would I deny that there may be other things in this context that are relevant to look at. We also do some of this with the branches, where the requirements will be different, so it is an overall exercise that we are, of course, ready to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155844	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324155845	Thank you. That is why it will of course be very exciting next month to see the concrete proposal, and there is a full understanding that the Minister cannot, of course, present it before the presentation. But that is in connection with what I also talked about in the previous question, namely the fact that Randers has often received no. We have the two great players with whom I have had many meetings, namely VIA and Dania, who have repeatedly tried to get different courses and have received various excuses, in relation to why it is not possible; one of them was about the fact that the courses were actually something that already existed in Aarhus and Aalborg, and that is why they were covered, something else was about what the minister also touched on in his reply, namely: Is there real demand for these courses, etc.? And then it's gonna be a little chicken or egg, because it's like you don't really know if there's a demand until you have the educations etc. That's why for a city, which is Denmark's sixth largest city and not some random city, it's really, really problematic in terms of getting this bubble going and in terms of getting something done about this issue. Therefore, to some extent, there is a need to go into broad political understanding, as it were, and to say that there are therefore some different municipalities around the country, probably also some that are similar to Randers elsewhere, where, if we want this balance, we simply have to do something that somebody might be less happy about somewhere. That's why it's just that the message and I actually think that the minister has heard it, and that's nice: in relation to some of these little black spots higher education, if you want them not just to be lost, then you have to do something political, where you don't just say: let's try to tighten up a little in relation to what was before. But we have to do something concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160029	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160031	Thank you. I would like to stress that I really believe that the greatest challenge facing us in the years to come is to make the supply we already have sustainable, so that we do not run the risk of closing up training opportunities that already exist. However, despite the fact that this is the greatest challenge facing us, the government also has further ambitions to actually build on more. And the whole proposal for educational branches is precisely a suggestion of how, if there is strong local demand for something that the educational institution can offer something that then has to prove its worth and where it is more flexible both to open and close it again. That is precisely the branch idea, and I hope that it will contribute to some of the questions put by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160113	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160114	In fact, I think it can, because that is exactly what I was trying to say in relation to teacher training. You tried it a little, but you didn't do it right. You did this half or a quarter, or whatever to call it, and placed it there, but it wasn't really a training in Randers. If you really want to do this, you have to say that okay, now we do it. Let's give it a try. You claim that you can get the municipality, get the business community, what do I know, to back up on this, and then we'll try a really long higher education together in the city. I think that is the way forward. Therefore, I just want to say positively that if it is some of the tactics that can be included in this plan, then I am very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160151	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160152	But that is very much what looks like when we have such a big perspective beyond the country, namely that we should not have black spots. But it must also be constantly weighted against it by not just creating things that we close again. I myself come from an area where you are extremely vulnerable to it if things close, because it gives such a sense of settlement. It is just before that I would rather that we do not create than that we create something that soon after closes again. I believe that when we do that, we must do it properly. One of the educational branches is precisely an attempt to say that you must give it a shot, even if you do not believe in a hundred percent education from the start, and then we see if it is sustainable after 6 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160234	I think I can speak on behalf of at least most of the Randers and say that we are not in the situation that we do not want anything, even if it may have to close again, because we are so far down in relation to higher education that we want to try our luck. So we would very, very much like that. I also know that both Dania and VIA are prepared to do so, because they themselves are of the opinion that they would very much like to try to push Randers again as a city of education because we have population density, we have population base and so on. For that, at least on paper. So just a message from here that let's try to take the chance, because I actually think there are some urban communities that would like to, if they get the opportunity to back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160312	I think so too, and that is part of the reason why we need to look at the general framework for training outside the four major cities. We need to look at how to ensure that our young people also distribute so that the big ones do not become too big. And then we have to look at the fact that for those places where there is such little doubt whether it can actually happen, we have the branch model, where we relax it. We build on what the previous government did with training stations, but we provide much more flexibility. We remove, for example. the ceiling of that maximum. must be half of the teaching in the smaller town. Now we say that well make it that you, if you can, also very much like with more than 50 percent..
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160350	Thank you, Minister. Thank you to the questioner. The next question is to the Minister for Education and Research. It is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative People's Party who is to come to the podium. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160420	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I have a question, and that is: what will the Minister do to reduce the risk of increasing apostasy from our training programmes in the wake of the decommissioning, i.e. the covid-19 decommissioning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160437	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160439	Thank you to the questioner both for giving an opportunity to discuss the important topic here, but also for continuing good dialogue also at the moment on joint agreements that address this particular issue, because the well-being of students is under pressure. The last year has been hard. It has been extraordinarily hard to have a student life, and the corona has undoubtedly removed some of the joy of education. We can both look at the figures, but we can see that when we talk to the students. And they long to come back, both professionally and at the human level, and there is no doubt that many are sitting at home and beginning to doubt whether their professionalism is good enough because they do not get it tested by and do not get the learning process together as they have been so used to. At the same time, the link, at least some of the link with their education, disappears even during a period like this. That is why it is also very important for us to focus politically on this, and we have already done something together with efforts for vulnerable and vulnerable students. We have made sure that there were additional loan options, so there was security around the economy. We've set aside 100 million. kr., is going out and living now for the students who are about to complete their education with a lot of practical elements. They're going to make a final sprint now that we also have a reopening that makes it possible. And hopefully we have also given them a little more peace of mind together by suspending the completion grant and, at local level, a great deal is also being done. Most of all, I think it is a fact that right now they are being allowed to come back more. And thank you to the author and the author's party for being part of that agreement this week. I think that means the world. But I think we also agree that, whether you open up again now or not, there will be work to obtain some things at both the professional and the human level and get them back well. That is why it is also part of the agreement that we must continue to talk about that. I am talking about this with both the rapporteur and the students themselves, and this is an important task ahead of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160652	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160653	Thank you. Now there has been decommissioning for the students for almost 5 months, and we have had to kick a lot of car tires here with the minister to get talked about that we always have to look at our students. So it was good, I'd say we landed those 100 million. kr. in helicopter money right after the winter break. It had to have some rounds before we actually found out that we had to bring all the students, because it was only the practical ones. The minister had forgotten about the other students, and fortunately we got them with us. But I'm not so worried about them, 'cause they're probably not gonna fall out because they're gonna end. It was also a good thing that we had a look at the well-being, because there was, in fact, a study back in December, so it has finally been taken care of to support the well-being. Well, it's been 4-5 months. I don't understand why it has to take so long. Now we have them, and the Minister's analysis is there. They do not know what their professional level is, and that makes them uncertain: can they cope with professional requirements? After all, they are the ones who started one year ago and two years ago and who have now lived with corona closure. I want to hear what the Minister thinks we should do there. We're being summoned to a meeting, we've been talking to, we've had a meeting with the sector, and they have their bid. So now I think that after five months the Minister must have some suggestions as to what we could do to reduce apostasy, because now they have nothing to do with it, but they will have it in a moment. And we already have a high apostasy, which the Minister would also like to have done something about. But what exactly does the Minister want to do so that we reduce the risk of apostasy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160827	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160828	Thank you for the question. However, I have to correct the agreement we have made with each other on the 100 million. kr.: It is for those who are faced with completing their training where they have practical elements. We do not have all students in that agreement, and that is why we have promised each other very wisely that the next thing we do, what we are discussing and discussing at the moment, and which will be the subject of negotiations, must be for all our students. 'Cause I'm worried we're pushing an apostasy in front of us. I would like to say that I am deeply impressed by our students, the 258 000 higher education students across the country who have not fallen from it. But giving them the prospect of both professional and social action that there is a special effort ahead of them is what we have to negotiate with each other about, and I think this is important in terms of reducing apostasy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160917	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160918	Thank you. However, I do not think I am getting an answer to that, what it is that will be done in concrete terms, yes, the 100 million. kr. We found out that there are also practices close to higher education other than professional training and maritime education. But could the Minister imagine that, for example, we would be able to do so? Putting in a pool for extra students, mentors, counseling... right now it's hard to get in and get guidance and get to know where you are... so get some extra power employed for all those who have questions? And there you could answer: Where am I professionally, where are my holes, how can I be lifted up and get on the right track?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324160954	The questioner has actually heard me sit and say it in meetings in recent weeks, and we will have to discuss the reopening and what we are doing again on Friday for another round of rapporteurs. I think we should look at counselling; I think we should look at counselling; I think we should look at student counselling; I think we should look at professional delays; and I think we should look at their communities out there. I would just rather negotiate it at the negotiating table, and I hope the questioner will come back to that when we get to it. The agreement of this week says that we must negotiate it at the beginning of May, and I would really, very much like to do so together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161033	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161034	Thank you. It is very important, I think, for the students that they soon see a light ahead. There are a great many students who are addressing me and talking about the concern they have. It's a long time they're waiting. So I would hope that the Minister will also come up with a mandate and with the means for us to take active action to reduce the drop-out and help in relation to the professional backlog that many of the students have. It's a quarter of a million students that's a lot of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161107	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161109	In fact, I believe that we have jointly lit the greatest light of hope at all by giving so much priority to our students in higher education in the reopening agreement negotiated this week, which is, after all, with the chairman of the party of the questioner, it is black and white that we have to negotiate both the professional and the social backwardness at the beginning of May. So that is the hope and light that the questioner can pass on to all those who write, that is, that we have black and white promised each other; they can see that now they can start coming back, and they can see that we do not think it has been done with it. And I think the questioner should light that light when we have the agreement with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161144	Thank you, Minister. The next question is with the same minister and the same question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161147	Here you go, Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161149	Thank you. And it's also a bit in the same genre. One is that we have our students in higher education, we also have research. So I would like to ask the Minister: what will the Minister do to ensure that research does not suffer lasting damage from decommissioning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161205	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161206	Thank you for that question. I think we've been through a year that, if anything, has shown how important research is for all of us. This is a crucial prerequisite for knowledge, but also for us to be able to deal with situations such as those we have been through here. That is why we also have a government which, in fact, gives very high priority to research. With the 2021 Finance Act, we have not only achieved the target of 1%. of bnp to be spent on research, but also added 750 million. kr. in addition to it for a reboot of the Danish economy. And in spite of a decline in GDP, we have thus strengthened research in 2021 beyond the 1-percent objective. A historically high amount has been allocated to research in 2021 of 24 billion. kr. Of course, that does not change the fact that the concrete work out there is challenged. This applies to the whole country, it applies to all jobs, but that also applies, of course, to our research environments. And I know this has been a difficult time for our scientists. We in the government have worked very carefully on a flexible framework, so that, although we have been shut down, there has been a bit of rubber band for the most necessary research to be carried out into a laboratory to have had the opportunity to do so. And it is now possible for researchers to have access to laboratories, to the extent that physical attendance is necessary, so as not to significantly delay research activities. It is in our guidelines, and it is the universities that make the concrete assessment. In addition, in the autumn, we actually concluded an agreement with a number of parties in the Danish Parliament to set aside a total of 18 million. kr. to co-finance universities' extension of the specific PhD programmes which universities choose to extend as a result of the closure in the spring. We have thus targeted supporting research and innovation to ensure that our country also has strong research environments in the coming years, while at the same time, despite decommissioning, we have tried to create as flexible a framework as possible for our researchers. Finally, we have the framework agreement on the reopening of Denmark, which the government concluded with most of the parties of the Danish Parliament, including the questioner's, on Monday, which sends out a clear signal that it is essential that physical attendance for researchers and PhD students who need access to, for example. laboratories as part of their research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161426	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161427	Thank you. We are also very pleased that the government is giving priority to research. After all, we would like the Conservative People's Party to see our research actually close to 1.25%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. What concerns us here is our PhD student and, as the Minister rightly said, we had funds set aside in October last year. Because it turned out that there were 75%. of the PhD students who were delayed and there were approx. Twenty percent who thought about dropping it. It was already last year in June. The funds we have allocated helped about 200 of the 9,000 PhD students. Now it's actually 90 percent that says they're gonna be late. 59 per cent. We expect the decommissioning to have a direct negative impact on their research, and a great many also believe that they simply cannot afford this delay, not at all with the professional costs. So could the Minister imagine that we are now allocating funds to support our young researchers, our PhD students, so that they can carry out their research?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161544	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161546	The first thing the questioner says is that we have to go up to 1.25%. of bnp for research, is an enormous ambition. It is just in stark contrast to what the author's party itself did when one was in government, and so it is exciting if one has completely changed policy on it. I believe that research is essential for our society. That is also why the government has given it priority. I think that is also crucial in relation to, for example, the situation. our green transition, and that is why we have done a great deal historically there. We're researching for $24 billion. kr. This year, and of course it is important to me, when we give priority to the money of our tax dollars, that they also come out and work. That is why we have co-financed some of the extensions, and we have provided a flexible framework since before summer to assess who has needed to enter the university so as not to be delayed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161635	It's really good that there's a focus on that. Now I just have these latest numbers, including from PhD students who are addressing themselves. They are worried now because they see that it has such major consequences for their professionalism, and they want a package of help that we made in the autumn, just bigger because it must include more PhD students. Is it possible that this can also be brought to the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161702	In other words, the questioner's party is now involved in the great reopening and the big negotiations at party leader level, so everything can be brought in. However, I would like to say that I also consider that we should be careful not to put management responsibility away in a situation such as this one, and that is why I and the government have given priority to the framework. We have given priority to the individual assessment of each research project and the question of whether they need to come in or whether they do not need to come in and whether they will be delayed if they do not come in and then give access. We've given you some rubber band for that. We have also given cofinancing to assess what needs to be extended, and in this way I think that the most important task for us politically, and we have done this together, is simply to provide a flexible framework. And I think that's a good thing we've done along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161749	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161749-2	It is very good if you can come in as a result of that flexibility, but it has only been a few at a time. The problem is that a lot of people also need to get out into the municipalities to get data and do interviews • everything you haven't been able to do during covid-19. If you have wanted to study plant conditions in Nicaragua, you have not been able to travel. There are a lot of things that are very difficult. So it is not just a matter of having a slightly flexible framework. Of course, that flexibility is good and there is a cat door for them, but there really are some who are being seriously delayed. So will the Minister allocate funds so that they can be helped through their research? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161828	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161829	Well, in addition to the fact that we have set aside money to co-finance the extension of a number of research projects, I have also, as a minister, reached out both to the public research funding funds and to the European Union to show flexibility, as the private funds have also indicated, and in April 2020 the state and the academies agreed on an agreement allowing universities to extend temporary research posts if they were delayed due to corona. And in relation to reopening, of course, we also have eyes on this. Again: After all, it is all about creating a framework together so that we can actually get research through at universities, because we all win on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161911	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The next question is Mrs Heidi Bank from the Left with a question for the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161932	Thank you. What will the Minister say to the citizen who has been on the waiting list to have a rental house in the private housing stock but who is now jumped into the queue by others because the government wants the municipal property to have 1 in 10 private rentals? Of course, the question has been raised following on from the initiative of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324161953	Thank you. I would say the same to the citizen who is jumped into the queue for a home in a prevention area, as to the citizen who is skipped over in a exposed residential area and to the person who is skipped over in a private residential area. This is what we do when we point out people, no matter what type of accommodation they are assigned to, and that is what the Left itself is doing every day around the country's municipalities. When you regulate the rental of dwellings, whether private or general, some will be skipped, rejected or given priority. I do not think that the proposal will significantly reduce the chance of having a dwelling in larger private rentals. After all, this is only a small proportion of housing, and if, for example, the citizen mentioned by the questioner is in employment or in education, she will actually have priority over housing in a prevention area. We need to correct the sins of omission which have caused problems with the composition of residents in some parts of the general housing sector, and that is why we are regulating, namely that we want to have a mixed composition of residents and that there must be equal opportunities wherever you grow up, and we do not think that the government is there today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162107	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162108	Thank you for that answer. I am not surprised by the Minister's reply, but I think it leaves those who have been on a waiting list for a private rental, a little on the land of the gentleman. Because it is true, as the Minister says, that they can seek housing in the general housing stock, and then they can queue there if they have not been written up earlier, and it may also be that they can have priority, but it is not the same as they suddenly go out in the queue. And now it's also the private housing stock that they've been queued up to maybe via an insurance company, or through that they've saved up a certain place because they want to have a residence in a certain area. I do not think the Minister gives any proper answers to the citizen who may have a quite ordinary job and who cannot afford to buy himself a home in an area but is dependent on being able to have a rental home. How does the Minister intend to respond to the concern they are going to face when they are going to move further backwards in the queue?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162210	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162212	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the Left has toned down slightly compared to last week's announcements. Last week, it was said by several left-wingers: a criminal foreigner is coming to take your residence. After all, we have now reached the rhetorical level, where it is about the fact that, of course, there will be some people on the waiting list who will have a residence a little later. It is the same, whether you are on a waiting list for a general dwelling or whether you are on a waiting list for a private dwelling • Of course, if someone is assigned from the municipality, you will get a residence later than you would otherwise have done. Fortunately, we have many good housing associations where it is relatively easy to get in after a short time on the waiting list.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162249	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162250	I really have to say that I think that the Minister is running very superficially over the fact that this is the life of ordinary people. It's about the nurse, it's about the office assistant, it's about ordinary people who maybe qua the workplace they have, or qua the pension company they have been written up for a rental house in the private rental stock. It just seems like the minister is saying: well, it doesn't matter, and they just have to find out for themselves. I do not think there are any concrete answers from the Minister here. The Minister must understand that this is causing a great deal of concern and enormous unrest among ordinary people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162329	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162330	After all, it is always ambivalent to stand here today after sitting with the same rapporteur yesterday at the negotiating meeting, when yesterday the rapporteur was able to put the questions quite quietly, but now we have to breathe into a great theatre. The point is essentially the same, because we agree with the Left that much more needs to be built, and we agree with the Left that something needs to be done about the most vulnerable residential areas, which are now called ghetto areas, but we also believe that we should ask private rental companies to take part in the responsibility. This will mean, of course, just as it does everywhere else where you have local authority instructions, that some people will have their homes a little later than they would otherwise have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162403	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162404	I have to say that I do not think it suits the Minister to try to make this a theater. I think it should be taken seriously. This is the Parliament Hall, and there has to be this room for you to ask questions. I would also like to say that what I am asking here was also something I mentioned at yesterday's sitting. Moreover, I will not refer to the meetings we have had. It's just to line up that line. But the Minister must be impressed when there are experts in this area, such as Curt Liliegreen from the Housing Economic Knowledge Centre, who has been out saying that what the government has brought in will not provide more housing, because there will be the same number of family homes available. Doesn't that impress the Minister at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162443	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162444	No, it does not make an impression that Curt Liliegreen says that there will be no more homes, because it is evident to everyone that regulation does not in itself create more homes. So no, it doesn't make an impression, because I knew that already. We do not make more homes by regulating who moves in and out, but we hope that, as with the parallel society package, we can change the housing composition of the homes that are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162512	Thank you. The next question is also to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, and it has also been asked by Mrs Heidi Bank with her co-questioner, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162517	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162519	Thank you. What does the Minister say in relation to the proposal on the so-called prevention areas to the Mayor of Copenhagen, Lars Weiss. Comment that with this proposal we risk pushing people with poor economics and poor social conditions out of our city, and I do not want that to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162536	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162537	I believe that this proposal should be seen as an extension of the efforts so far made towards parallel societies. What we want to do is to take a step forward in correcting the biased composition of residents, which has led to divided urban areas, and which I also believe threatens the cohesion of our societies. I understand the mayor's statement that he does not believe that we can just continue to limit the opportunities for the most vulnerable citizens to have a general housing. We also need to make sure that there are homes elsewhere in the city to which this group can be assigned. I fully agree with that. More general housing is to be built in Copenhagen. The municipality is working for this, and of course the government would also very much like to support it. But here we must also remember that the government's proposal opens the way for the group that the mayor is talking about to be assigned a dwelling in a private rental property, so that it is not only the general housing sector that has to deal with the whole task.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162638	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162639	After all, the Minister has just admitted to my previous question that there will be no more homes. Another thing, of course, is that the housing which the Minister is talking about, in other words housing in the private rental stock, is more expensive in terms of square meters than housing in the general sector. So it is not cheap housing as such that the Minister is offering these people, who are perhaps some of our most economically disadvantaged citizens. So what is the Minister's answer in relation to giving them an accommodation which is to pay if what they are referred to is a home in the private rental stock?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162716	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162717	If the questioner reads the expert report that has been prepared on section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act, paragraph 5. 2, it is very clear that the private cost-based rental house costs approx. 779 kr. per square meters in Copenhagen and Frederiksberg Municipalities. In the City of Copenhagen, a general home costs approx. 927 kr. per square meters on average. So it is wrong when the questioner claims that private rentals are always more expensive. The questioner can, of course, read this out in that report if there is any interest in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162751	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162751-2	Now the minister stood up earlier and accused me of acting and of running it up. After all, this is a huge play by the Minister, by making it sound as if the homes to which you can point are just a lot of cost-related regulated leases. There is simply not enough of them in Copenhagen to solve the challenges posed by the Minister. That is what the mayor of the Social Democratic Party here in Copenhagen is criticizing the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing for, namely the lack of realism in this plan. So how can one stand and pretend that this is just about setting up some cost-related leases in the private rental sector, and then it's just solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162833	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162834	If you look at which rentals are in properties with 20 or more dwellings, they are approx. 84,000 of the 170,000 there are, in Copenhagen and Frederiksberg municipalities, so yes, there is actually a lot to refer to. After all, the 84,000 dwellings are more dwellings than there are general dwellings in the two municipalities. So I'm thinking that the first thing about saying something, the factual thing is wrong, and then when I correct it, you say that it's acting, you can rise up from the left side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162906	The enquirer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162917	This proposal, which completely overlooks private property, is of course very interesting. That is, of course, the way the government feels about negative freedoms, and it is okay that we have different positions politically. Nevertheless, private rental homes in Copenhagen are often larger than those in general construction. They are not subject to the same ceiling for how large they must be, and thus they are also more expensive in rent. At the same time, is the Minister going to put up the amount of housing aid that you can get in order for people to be able to afford it, or is this a mere bogus maneuver?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162950	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324162951	I am aware that the author's former party chairman has been given a 183 m2 apartment in Nyhavn for 10,000 DKK. a month, and I am also well aware that this is not the general case. But some people get this kind of cheap housing, and if ordinary families were provided with the same kind of housing, it would of course be easier to get such a large apartment for 10,000 kroner. a month. In general, however, private rental homes are relatively small. They're not 183 m2 on average. They are in family size or less in the City of Copenhagen, because the old residences in the City of Copenhagen generally • the vast majority of them are 2-3 bedroom apartments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163036	Here you go. That's the co-questioner, Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163041	Now I do not think I should include the Minister's accommodation, although the Minister finds it very interesting how the Left or former Left people live. In fact, I think it's a little bit out of the question. But it may be because you have such a bad case that you have to shoot at everything you can to do it at all. After all, the minister does not answer at all whether you want to give the extra housing support that you need for these tenants to be able to afford to live in these apartments. Is this some kind of skin maneuver? It may be that the Minister will answer this time instead of just shooting away.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163108	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163109	I commended the rental company concerned for renting out to the author's former party chairman at such a low price. I thought that was a good thing to do, no matter who rented it. However, as I said to the co-author, the average price for cost-based leases is DKK 779. per square meters. It is calculated by the group of experts that the author's own previous government helped to reduce, and thus it is lower than the average housing square meter price of the City of Copenhagen, which is DKK 927. per years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163140	Mrs. Heidi Bank, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163142	Well, we must also take the answers that come from the Minister with a sense of humor. Because it is quite clear that there is a great deal of talk going on here. What is real here is that the Minister is saying that some of the relatively few leases, which are in the private rental stock after all, if you look at the rotation in them, you will give to some others. One of the things you want to do is... I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction. at the moment want to put out of the So we have support for that part. I am surprised, however, that you do not see a problem at all in pushing some others into the private rental stock at the same time, and that you are quite relaxed that those people are going to stand completely alone. I am just surprised that the Social Democrats are so relaxed that this is going to hit ordinary people who are written up for housing in the private rental stock.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163248	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163249	Well, I would like to repeat once again that no matter where you make a municipal order, there will be someone on the waiting list who will have a residence later than he would otherwise have been given. This applies both if it is in private rental homes and if it is in general rental homes, and it is clear that this problem can only be solved by building something more. The government is also interested in this, but that is not what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163313	Thank you to the questioner. The next question also goes to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. It's by Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163321	Do you want me to read? Third Vice-President Yes). Why does the Minister not ensure that good voluntary agreements can be concluded with the private real estate sector, rather than putting a gun to the fore by the private sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163329	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163330	Thank you for the question. The primary purpose of the proposal is to ensure that the municipalities can offer to all private landlords an agreement on municipal direction by the municipality. Private landlords will then be able to bid with a share or a number of their leases that they are willing to make available to the municipal council. The private landlord will be able to offer leases that best fit into the purpose, taking into account the characteristics of each property. You will be able to offer different numbers or shares leases in different properties. The second part of the proposal will only be applicable in municipalities with prevention areas or exposed areas and only in relation to larger rental properties to the extent necessary to find a dwelling for residential residents who, due to special rental rules, cannot be assigned a general dwelling, and only if the contract-based scheme does not work. So what is the main proposal is precisely an opportunity to conclude agreements between the municipality and private landlords. Finally, I would like to stress that the second part of the proposal will be of no importance to private landlords who own small rental property or own a simple or possibly few condominiums used for renting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163438	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163441	What the Minister is proposing here is to override private property, which is a constitutional right. Has the Minister examined with the Ministry of Justice whether this is in accordance with the Danish constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163454	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163455	Yes, it is their opinion that it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163458	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163500	Then I would like to know whether it is generally one thing that you do not give a damn about negative freedoms, which are, of course, the rights you have without violating the rights of others to the same private property right is one of them. There are others, for example. Freedom of assembly, which has also been violated at the moment. Is it such a general policy that you do not care about negative freedoms?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163517	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163519	No, it is not a general policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163521	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163523	So just in this case. It is good to know that it is only in this case and in the case of freedom of assembly in the case of Corona that it is intended to violate the negative freedoms. It's okay, too. After all, we must have different political views on the various issues. But since it is the choice to violate people's rights in this way and the Minister says that they will in turn compensate for it, how does the Minister intend to compensate for a violation of the negative freedom rights of private property?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163547	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163549	In concrete terms, compensation will be made both in relation to possible idling rents and in relation to any costs associated with relocation and rehabilitation. And if it turns out that, in individual cases, there is a real overstepping of private property, then, of course, you will also be fully compensated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163606	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, and that is by Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. I'm sorry, I can't get Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm to wipe off. Okay, now sir. Jan E. Jørgensen it. Jan E. Jørgensen, do you want me to wipe you off, too?). Oh, puddles. Laughter Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163635	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163638	Thank you very much, and here comes the question. Does the Minister consider that, with respect to section 73 of the Constitution on the inviolability of private property, private individuals can be forced to rent to those desired by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163651	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163652	Thank you for the question, and I would not like to enter into a legal discussion with the questioner, who, in his period of study, is probably familiar with Max Sørensen or Henrik Zahle's interpretation of section 73 of the Constitution, because I do not have it myself. As I understand it, an owner's right to rent housing in his property is covered by the protection provided for in Article 73. However, it is not every interference with a right protected by that provision that constitutes expropriation. It is assumed that, without expropriation, the legislature can regulate the exercise of the rights protected by Article 73 of the Constitution. Legislative power can lay down general rules on restricting citizens' freedom of action and in their rotting of what they own, and that is what is called compensation-free regulation. The distinction between compensation-free regulation on the one hand and expropriation on the other is based on an overall estimate of the nature of the operation. It is our estimate that the proposal can generally be implemented as replacement-free regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163753	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163753-2	Now I would like this to be not a Parliamentary Chamber, but a courtroom, because the area of compensation-free regulation and the area of expropriation is quite clear. When you have private property, you have ownership of your property, which means that you own it, but it also means that you have possession of it, including that you decide for yourself. Well, it's not the minister who decides, but it's the one who owns property that decides who he wants to rent the property to. I have seen that my colleague Mrs Heidi Bank has referred to this proposal as communism, and that is only 10 per cent of communism, because you will be allowed to keep the right of control over the 90 per cent, and perhaps you should really be grateful that the government has not said 20 per cent. or 30%. 80%. But if you have an apartment, you decide for yourself who you rent it to, and any restriction of that right is an interference in private property, and you simply cannot write it out. And I would like us to be able to do this politically here, and that there are no landowners who are going to take costly, resource-intensive legal proceedings against the Ministry, because this is not an earthly chance to win. A rotten property, that is, who you rent it out to, is so fundamental that you can't talk your way out of it. Could it be imagined that the Minister would rent 10 per cent? of his parcel house or his apartment, or whatever the minister lives in, to someone whom I had decided who was and who was said: Well we pay 10%. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Well, you have to understand that's an intervention. Something else is what you deal with, but when you force people to rent someone they haven't made up their mind for who is, it's an interference in private property, and I'm a little upset about the answer, I have to admit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163954	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324163955	I think it is very good for the questioner that it is not a trial in which we come up, as poorly prepared as the questioner is. There are no parcel houses that are included in this, but they are rentals with over 20 apartments, and if the questioner had had something to do with housing policy, the questioner would also know that in other areas there is already a reduction in whom to rent. If, for example, you're gonna have to... leaving an apartment empty, the municipality has the right to go in and demand the apartment rented, also according to the direction of the municipality in the end. If a tenant wants to trade for another tenant, it is also possible to avoid the owner's right to direct people. So it is already in several areas practice whether it is considered communism or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164036	I know that parcel houses are not included; I said if it were just to put things in perspective so that the Minister could understand the extent of the problem. I am well aware that the Housing Regulation Act allows one to enter an empty lease. But as the owner of the property, you have a very easy answer to that: you can then just rent it out to someone else, but one that you have made up your mind for who is. So that doesn't change the fact that the government will now decide who a private landlord should rent 10%. of its opportunities to, and that is
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164114	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164114-2	I am really sorry that the questioner is not dealing with what I am replying to, i.e. if you swap an apartment, you are entitled to the same thing. If you live in a private apartment and you swap with someone who lives in another apartment, whether private or general, you have the right to demand that the person you trade with should move in instead of yourself. And there you also take the same power from the landlord in relation to deciding who moves in when there is a change at the address. How many percent of communism that is, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen measured out, but it is exactly the same principle that applies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164148	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164149	No, I do not think it is exactly the same principle to say that a tenant who lives in an apartment in advance can rent out, for example. to your children, if you are dead and the children have lived there, or otherwise, or you can exchange apartments. For these are some rental rights for some who are already tenants in the property. But this is a matter of the Minister deciding that someone from the outside can enter and settle in 10%. of the leases of a private landlord's property, and if it is not an interference in private property, then I simply find it difficult to see what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164222	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164223	Well, then, I'm surprised that sir... Jan E. Jørgensen has not objected to the General Rental Act. Why should a privately formed association, without State aid such as AAB, which built its first departments exactly in the municipality of the questioner, take instructions if it is such an abuse, in relation to how you see it? That is to say, they have been set up completely without public support, and that is where you accept 25%. from the municipality, and I also assume that the questioner as a municipal councillor at Frederiksberg himself is exercising that role. What is the fundamental difference between the two?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164257	Thank you. That's the question. Thank you to the questioner. There is a question for the Minister, and it is from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, but with Jan E. Jørgensen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164306	Here you go, sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164307	Thank you very much, President. The question is: What does the Minister mean by full compensation and with all the compensation to be paid, cf. the Minister's reply to Niels Krause-Kjær in the Deadline on 17 March 2021, as he is asked that private persons be forced to rent?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164356	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164358	Thank you. In relation to the main proposal concerning the voluntary agreement with the private landlord on municipal advice, the municipal council will have the power to agree an allowance and, whether it is an agreement or a decision, the municipal council will guarantee any rent losses from the date from which an apartment is available to the municipal council until the lease takes place, as well as the payment of removal costs when a designated tenant moves. It's an extra security for the landlords. In addition, as I mentioned earlier, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, in cases where the courts consider that this is an expropriation, of course be full compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164435	Here you go, sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164437	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. We will probably not agree on this, because I believe that the Social Democrats and the Left view private property very differently, and I must honestly admit that it is very shameful to see the Minister here today. Other good social democrats stand guard over fundamental rights in our society, constitutional rights, but it must be understood that the government we have now has is not like previous social democratic governments, for time and time again. The state is being pressured in front of the citizens, people with private initiative must be restricted in their freedom. Now we see, with the help of the Minister of Housing, that private people who have invested in a private rental property with the conditions that apply, now with the law in hand, maybe in violation of the Constitution, perhaps within the rules of the Constitution, have to be partially nationalised. That is what is in the proposal. I think that the whole idea behind it is shameful. However, in relation to the Minister's reply, I would like to ask him, and that may be my question to the Minister: if there was full compensation and if it is so good that you are compensated for moving expenses and everything else, why can't you just make voluntary agreements? We support that in the Left. Why, then, should we force it through as it is in this proposal? And that's to put it bluntly... almost Mafia methods. In other words, the first proposal to be made is that voluntary agreements can be concluded. If that can't be done, you can force it through. I do not think it is appropriate for any government at all, and neither is it appropriate for the Minister. Unfortunately, this is not surprising, because the social democracy and government's view of fundamental rights in our society is being pressured, and this issue unfortunately shows this with great clarity. But my question to the Minister is: if there is full compensation, how can it be that we should force and not use voluntary service?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164637	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164638	But our starting point is also that it should be done with volunteering in most places; that is what we are putting forward in our proposal. However, we believe that there will be some places where it will be necessary to ensure that we can have a mixed housing mix in all parts of our cities, that those places on the part of the municipal council will eventually be able to also force landlords to make a small part of their apartments in large buildings available to people who otherwise behave properly. It is not, as the Left often claims, a criminal foreigner who gets ahead in line; it is actually people who have not committed crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164719	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164720	In other words, once again, I must express such a shock at the Minister's laxity in relation to fundamental rights, and I hope that all people who are employed in the private sector or own something private will take great note of how the minister in this matter and the government in general treats fundamental matters. My question to the Minister is again: if this was so amazingly good, why couldn't you just settle for the volunteer? Why should the threat of coercion be there? Why would there have to be this mafia-like approach to the residential area? Why is it the government's housing policy? Why is this even necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164757	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164759	I myself have tried to ask section 20 questions where the question has been asked and answered, and then you just ask the same two or three more questions to fill the time. I can say the same again, namely that our starting point is that voluntary agreements are being made; but we also believe that it is being done to a sufficient extent that in some cases it is necessary to pressure some landlords to provide accommodation for the municipality's instructions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164825	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen as an enquirer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164826	Thank you. It is interesting to hear the answers, for example, that you call it large properties. Well, these are 20 occasions we're talking about... they're two times up. It's two walks, it's no. Numbers 17 and 17 19. It's not a big property. Then I do not really understand why the Minister on TV starts talking about full compensation if there is no expropriation. Well, full replacement and expropriation are inextricably linked. And then we hear here in the answer: if the courts arrive at an expropriation. But didn't the minister just say there was no expropriation? Well, what's up, and what's down? Is it expropriation or isn't it expropriation? Because if it is expropriation, you have to have full compensation and then the minister's reply on television can make some sense, because of course you have to be replaced. So what has been asked is: what will you get in compensation? And I am not sure that I could quite catch in the Minister's reading of the long answer, but I would like to hear a little more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164931	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324164931-2	Well, size is always relative. If it were 20 of the apartments that the author's former party chairman moved into, then it would still be a property of 3,500 floor meters and that is after all a half-large property, I would say. So I guess it's a little bit like how we make it up. In relation to the legal part of it, it is clear that this is a question of • now I have to get a hold of it; I am not a lawyer who is asking for compensation-free regulation. There is no question of expropriation, that is what the Ministry of Justice is assessing, and that is what I am sticking to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165006	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165006-2	No, but law isn't necessarily very difficult. In other words, compensation-free regulation means that it is a government which is free from paying compensation, in other words where no compensation is paid. It's not that harder. So when the Minister talks about full compensation, that means no compensation, because compensation-free regulation means no compensation. Can we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165027	We cannot agree on this, because we are being compensated for the costs that exist if we are idle and if something has been destroyed by relocation and so on, as is also the case in the general housing sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165038	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165103	I guess this is my last question here, and I have to say that we haven't really gotten much smarter. However, I can inform the Minister that when lawyers are very concerned that something is a compensation and is not a compensation, it is because compensation is typically significantly less than compensation. Well, I probably can't get the Minister to change his policy of wanting to nationalise part of the private building stock, but I just want to say that we note that this is the position of the government and the minister. We in the Left think it is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165139	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165140	Well, the fact that the building stock is subject to regulation has been completely common practice since it was first introduced under Erik Eriksen's government after the war. So the Left has little knowledge of that, and that policy has been applied by the Left ever since. Our homes are subject to rental regulation and a lot of rules about who can live there, when and how, and this is, of course, an extension of. And if we were so opposed in principle to the regulation of our private rental homes, I think it is strange that we have not done anything about it all the years in which we have been in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165215	Thank you, Minister. The next question is also for the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, and it is from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165222	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165224	The question is: Does the Minister recognize that if you have bought a property and own it, it should also be up to the owner to decide who has the right to use it and to whom a room in that property should be rented?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165234	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165235	The short answer is that we must respect constitutional property rights and that we must only intervene when it is in accordance with the constitution. This proposal will often involve companies and foundations which operate rental services on a large scale. They run their business with the primary goal of renting out all leases. What we are proposing is that, in extreme cases, they should accept that the municipalities appoint tenants who have to pay the rent required and for which, moreover, the municipality guarantees any idling losses and removal costs. It is not an unknown phenomenon in the rental law that the landlord himself does not choose who an apartment is to be rented to. I can mention the lease rules on prey, which give the tenants the right to exchange their accommodation with another tenant's residence. As I understand the feedback from the real estate industry, the industry is willing to make a contribution to achieving the objective of mixed residential areas. The proposal gives them the opportunity to agree their contributions with the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165330-2	Yes, thank you to the Minister for the answer, which was an answer, but not an answer to what was asked. Because I asked if the Minister acknowledges that if you have bought a property, it should also be up to the owner to decide. Then the Minister refers to the fact that it is not today; that there are some exceptions for that. The minister was not quite honest, for there are some fairly square rules for when to trade; three years I think you should have lived there and something like that. It is somewhat more difficult than one could just understand or get the impression when the Minister replied. But that's the basic thing: you bought something. And it doesn't matter in principle whether you belong to a large company or a small family property; you bought something in confidence that there are some rules that apply. Is it okay, then, that the state is the big bad social democratic state; the state power comes with compensation without compensation and just seizes part of one's building stock? Is that fair? Is that fair? That's the question. So, the minister acknowledges that if you bought a property and own it, it should be up to the owner to decide? There I have to understand that the answer from the Minister to that question is: No, the government does not think that is fair and fair. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165447	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165448	But it is strange that the questioner may have been a minister for so long and managed the state's most intrusive apparatus if the state governed by the questioner was as nasty and evil and socially democratic as it is now being interpreted. So it must have been a little ambivalent, at least during that period. If you own a property, of course, in the general rule you decide who you rent it to. However, there are a number of regulatory provisions on renting out housing. It's been there ever since the post-war period, and it still is. It is there in most Western countries, so there are regulations on how much you can take, when to rent out, who you can rent out to, when to leave it empty, etc. And this is an extension of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165528	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165529	Thank you for your answer, Minister. When I was a minister, I was very concerned not to expand the power of the state with its monopoly of power... tax collection is one of the most intrusive things you can do... but to protect the interests of the citizens. And there I understand from the Minister that the citizens, i.e. people who own private property, are not concerned. They just have to make themselves available, and then they can get some compensation... not compensation, but compensation... and then the state just comes thundering. And I would like to ask again, Minister: does the Minister really think that it is fair when you buy a property and you want to rent it out, that if it is of a certain size, then the state comes and has to decide who is going to live for rent? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165610	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165611	In other words, if the questioner went into his ministerial job with the task of abolishing the state, then it has not gone very well. But, of course, you are not obligated beyond your abilities. As far as I know, taxes are still levied occasionally in this country. But basically, there is a regulation of our rental homes. There has always been; there has continued to be. I have not heard that the Left is interested in abolishing that regulation, because it works very well, as it does in most other Western countries. And I also think that you are wrong if you only see the citizens as those who own the properties; I think, in fact, that those who live in the properties and need housing are citizens as well as those who own the properties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165649	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165650	The Left would like more citizens to own their own homes. There is a special joy in getting into a situation where you can own your own home if you want it. But this is not achieved by nationalising a larger proportion of the housing stock, on the contrary. And it's boring that it's government policy, and you can be worried about what else you're gonna throw yourself over. Why should we not regulate, in relation to people who own a car, that you have to pick up passengers to reduce CO2 Well, you can imagine all sorts of strange things if you follow that line of thought. I would therefore like to ask the Minister one last time whether the Minister does not think that it is fair when you buy property and you have bought and paid for it, that you also decide for yourself who to rent it out to, not what the rent should be, but who to rent it out to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165734-2	In any case, I can see that the questioner has a vivid imagination in imagining what could happen to other things. Right now we are discussing the rent regulation, which has been a permanent part of the legislation of this country, which the Left has also administered for long periods. And there it is that you can't decide who's moving in. You cannot determine it in relation to someone who chooses, for example. To trade. You can't decide if you want to leave your apartment empty; then the municipality will come and direct you. And now we say that in some cases there may also be situations where the municipality can direct people to a small part of the homes in the largest buildings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165805	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for the Minister at this stage. Thank you to the questioner. Can I have sir? Karsten Lauritzen to groom the square? Mrs. Signe Munk I'll take care of it. Excellent, and that time will not be taken from your speaking time. The next question is to the Minister for the Environment. It is asked by Mrs Signe Munk of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165831	Here you go to the questioner to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165835	Thank you. I read out the question: How does the Minister feel about the Danish Environmental Protection Agency abolishing an injunction against the company FMC Cheminova to take action against the factory site, and will the Minister give his assessment of whether it is appropriate for the environment and taxpayers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165855	Thank you to the questioner. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324165857	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that we have jointly adopted an historic agreement in the Finance Act on the remediation of a number of major soil pollutions, of which Cheminova is also a part, and I know that the questioner has also been very active. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has previously been informed of the obligations that have been imposed on Cheminova over time. On 7 October 2019 the Committee was informed that the Danish EPA had concluded that it is not a legal option to maintain an injunction given a very long time ago. This is important for the defence which is important and which has been taking place at Cheminova since the 1980s. So far, the company has indicated that they want to continue this defensive action, but it will be done on a voluntary basis in the future. The polluter-pays principle is a good and sensible principle, which is also reflected in our legislation today, but it is not the same in relation to the old soil pollutions where there was no legislation that we have today. We have to recognise that in the 1950s it was unfortunately accepted and legally legal to dig things down so they were out of sight and those problems are now being passed on to public action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170014	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170017	At Harboøre Tange there are three generation pollutants, as the Minister for the Environment knows. And I am really glad that we have now jointly been given the money to take the first part of those generational pollutions. What is fine is that the bill has ended with the Danish taxpayers and not with those who originally polluted, namely Cheminova. I also believe that the Minister for the Environment agrees with me that the more we can keep those pollutants in check, the better it is. Because if there are no measures to prevent pollution on the site of the factory, there is a risk that it will flow into the fjord called Limfjorden, where there are plenty of fish living up to it, including myself and out into the North Sea. And there are a lot of citizens who have stubbornly fought to shout this house to clean up after these generational pollutions; who have stubbornly insisted that politicians also demand that Cheminova and now the FMC take responsibility for that pollution. That is why I am very surprised that the Minister for the Environment is now ready to lift this injunction, that is to say, the public-law requirement that there should be a constant prevention, that is to say a reduction in the leakage of pollution. What is just disappearing that command, then it will work during the public environmental effort under Danske Regions, specifically under the Region of Midtjylland. The Central Jutland region has also given a hearing response to the lifting of the injunction, and there they clearly state that it may cost them a two-digit millionths of money to take over that task if the FMC no longer wants to avoid it. So does the Minister really believe that this is according to the polluter-pays principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170219	Thank you to the questioner. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170221	I fully share the praise to all those who have fought for Parliament to take responsibility here for the historical soil pollutions that have been around Denmark, which many environmentalists have fought for should happen. What we are talking about here is not a question of politics understood as: what does the SF think or what does the government think about the command we are talking about here? It is a pending case where the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is the authority and where they have been able to make a legal assessment of what you can and what you cannot do within the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170300	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170302	But the point is that law is also politics, and that is why I have raised this matter with the Minister for the Environment, that is, because she is the minister responsible for keeping these pollutants in check. It is the case that the Central Jutland Region has also made an external legal assessment where they point out that there is indeed a legal basis for maintaining this requirement, i.e. a task for the FMC in terms of deterring. So that doesn't make the Minister of the Environment reconsider this lifting of the injunction?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170336	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170337	As I said, I understand that you ask for it. And where we are now, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, as I mentioned before, has considered that there is no legal basis. Now they are re-examining in relation to the conditions that apply and have among other things. made this thorough legal assessment where they consider that there is no legal basis for maintaining the terms and therefore not the legal basis for enforcing the terms. So it's the legal assessment that's in the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. You have then sent a draft decision, and that is among other things. In consultation with the Central Jutland Region, a consultation reply was received here on 19 March, among other things. the questioner mentioned, and of course the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is looking into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170426	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170427	Is the Minister, as the responsible minister of the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, not at all concerned that it will be a voluntary deterrent? In other words, we do not have a public-law guarantee that a deterrent will be taken. Does it not give the Minister for the Environment, when I know that we are dealing with the issue of pollution, the desire to say that it actually needs to be examined further, for example. by putting a professor of environmental law to assess it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170502	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170503	First of all, I would like to stress that this is the case, among other things. also why we have made the agreement with SF, where we are now embarking on the clean-up. And then we have the defensive thing that has been going on since the 1980s, but where the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has made a legal assessment. And that is why it is not up to politics; then it would require that we legislate retroactively, that is to say, if we were to change that situation. So that is the challenge: that we are faced with pollutions that go back many decades and where there has been the legal assessment, but where it is now being looked at, including the consultation answer and the legal assessment made by the Central Denmark Region.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170543	Thank you, Minister. And thank you to the questioner. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170556	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 6 April 2021. I give the floor to the rapporteur on behalf of the authors of the question, Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170622	Thank you, President. In June last year Parliament held a detailed and thorough debate on the need for an up-to-date version of the investigation of power. It was a debate on a motion for a resolution and a welcome to the Minister, we are then we did not reach the second reading, and that is how it is sometimes. However, I think we all had a broad expectation and understanding that, despite the fact that we had not formally instructed the government to act in order to update the investigation of power with everything that has happened in society for the past 20 years, the government would probably still understand a hint with a truck pole and take the initiative. That has not happened, and that is why we have chosen today to call a question debate, not necessarily in order to repeat all the good arguments that most rapporteurs agreed on almost a year ago, but in order to do what is necessary to make the government clearly act, namely to impose a mandate on it. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, is it wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170756	It is only during the debate that these proposals for adoption begin to be put forward. Morten Messerschmidt Well, I've done it this way in the past. You can't do that? ) It is certainly not now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170804	If so, it will be, with the permission of the President, I will use an English term, a cliffhanger, to be continued. Third Vice-President I cannot allow that). Well, there is no need to use many further arguments about something we have discussed once. We just need the government that doesn't do what the Folketing is asking it to do. But I'll be back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170822	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Now we give the floor to the Minister for Education and Research. But we're gonna have to ask Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt to carry out a little speaking chair hygiene here. That would be another excuse for not doing what the Folketing is asking for you to have corona here, so we shouldn't risk that. However, I have just been tested). Excellent, and thank you very much. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324170853	Thank you for the floor and for the opportunity to take a further debate on the possible updating of the investigation of power. After all, it is a research project which was originally initiated at the initiative of the Danish Parliament and was intended to analyse the situation of the Danish people's government in the transition to the 21st century. It is a large-scale and important project which I think has been able to draw on a great deal of our public conversation and a great deal of our democratic work. An update of the important work has previously been made as a wish in motion for a resolution B 138 in the 2019-20 session, as is also stated in the question. The authors of the motion for a resolution B 138 wanted the government to set up a wide range of experts from universities, companies, trade unions, associations, etc. to prepare an updated version of the analysis of power with a particular focus on political life, the media and society. The proposers also wanted the government to re-acquire the domain www.mightudredning.dk so that the process of updating the explanation of power could be documented on an ongoing basis. As I also said at the first reading of the motion for a resolution, I would like to say here that although the rapporteur for the questioners says that we do not necessarily have to repeat all the good arguments that the government had and still has sympathy for the desire to update this work. It is important to keep an eye on power, and it is important to keep a watchful eye on how our people's rule develops. We have a strong democracy in Denmark, but all the more reason to protect it and keep an eye on whether there are dangers that we must avoid. The conditions of the people's regime are constantly changing with the development of society. I have no doubt that some of us are taking part in the public democratic conversation, who are experiencing an impact from the digital development, the introduction of social media and a changed media image It is, of course, sensible to have this basis for the debate on the state of the Folketing and, above all, on how we can strengthen and bring more people into the democratic community. Fortunately, there are also a great many talented researchers in the Danish universities who are dealing with these very topics, and this is an important research effort they are making. I sincerely believe that under this hat there are incredibly many interesting and important issues to address. Personally, I think, for example, that it is very important that we, as politicians, also take an interest in the distrust of both politicians and the system that grows in many places. And it is also important to highlight the development and background of this distrust in a research and perhaps also international context. Inequality in democratic participation is central to these perspectives. Falling membership numbers in the parties and the importance of social media for the democratic conversation are other examples. Polarisation in society could also be mentioned as a very important issue. If there is an interest in more research into the state of the people's regime and the popular participation of the people, and I have the feeling that there is, even though the rapporteur for the questioners was not given the opportunity to read out the joint text for adoption yet, I believe that we must look at the funding, because we already have a tradition of looking at the overall research priorities of Parliament's parties in the research reserve in the autumn. At the same time, I would also like to stress, with regard to the original proposal, that there is a balance between how it is organised as best possible. Here I think that an overriding argument for actually doing this with a corporate income tax principle is to try to make it with corporate income tax into the political and in a way that is independent of various interests is that there are too strong political interests. I believe that this will provide a greater and more objective basis for research than what has been proposed as the original organisation. However, these are two different ways to gain in any case more knowledge of our democracy, our people's rule, people's access to the public conversation, our influence on our everyday life and the life we live. I think it is an important and constructive discussion to have, and I think it is important that we keep getting smarter. That is why I would also like to sign off on the fact that it has been taken to squares. I think we had a good and constructive debate at first reading on motion for a resolution B 138. It has subsequently been proposed that it should be dealt with in committee. Of course, we have waited, and we have done so, while, of course, a great deal of effort has been put into dealing with the covid-19 pandemic. I understand that the resolution was never finalised, and that is why it has now formally lapsed. At the same time, I have noted that we have subsequently had a debate on the research reserve, in which the wish was not raised here. It should not change the fact that we still, I sense, have a broad political interest in getting more knowledge and updating the explanation of power, and we are, of course, happy to discuss this on the part of the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324171528	Thank you to the Minister for Education and Research. One brief remark is now available from each rapporteur, and we shall start with Mr Beazley. Karsten Lauritzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324171536	I would like to thank the Minister for the words 'the positive and constructive words on the motion for a resolution', which are, of course, the original motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. I just have to say to the Minister that I actually thought that the ball was with the minister, and it is fair enough that the minister then plays it back to the Folketing. However, I had the clear opinion that it was the Minister who should take the initiative for a meeting. The Minister has not done so, and there we have to find out why. Now, of course, we are all eagerly waiting for the adoption, but what I am concerned about is that when there is a vote, where hopefully a majority in the Folketing is agreed on something, can we expect the Minister to move quickly? In fact, I think I will come back to that in my rapporteur's speech on behalf of the Left that there is a need to mapped out how power has changed since the last elucidation of power. So that is the question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324171624	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324171625	Well, I would like to confirm that the government is genuinely interested in more knowledge here and that there has been a lot of change since the initial investigation of power was made. And I believe that not only as politicians, but also as a democracy, we have an interest in constantly gaining knowledge and a look at the changes that are happening out there. At the moment, we have a very big discussion about how much it costs to enter the public conversation and about people who are being made a pig and so on. What is there of access to actually influencing one's own everyday life? I believe that it is extremely important to get up-to-date knowledge about. So I would like to repeat what I said in my speech, namely that we really want to take part in this debate, and I think it is obvious to discuss it in depth, so that we can look at it here in the autumn's research reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324171730	Thank you, Minister. The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324171735	I note that the Minister agrees that we had this discussion here in June 2020 and that she wonders why no one brought it up in the execution of the research reserve that took place afterwards. But then I would return it to my surprise and say that since the Minister was here in the Assembly in June and found that all the parties, apart from her own voiced support for the resolution, why on earth was it not the government itself that took it up so that it could be part of the research reserve if that was what they wanted? We had not taken a position on this from our side at the time, that is, when the money was to come from. But why didn't the government just do that so we didn't have to bother each other to stand here almost a year later and confirm each other in what we want?
ParlaMint-DK_20210324171826	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324171828	The government understands that this is an important piece of work. I would also like to say that we can discuss from here to eternity who should have done what. I find that we had a dialogue and a process in which I actually tried to reach out and where, in some way, there may have been much of it with corona. And I think that is a fair thing, but that does not change the fact that there is always a priority, and there is also a research reserve. The government, for example, gave priority to: to earmark an incredible amount of money for green research in autumn's research reserve. It is not the same as not also wanting new knowledge in relation to this, and that means that if that is what is also a broad consensus that is needed now, then let us talk about it, but let us see it in a context, so that we also have the economy in place. Because this is also a project that can be scaled up and down, depending on how much arm movements we want and how much money we want to prioritise to it, and that obviously needs to be seen in a context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324171930	Thank you, Minister. No more rapporteurs have asked for a brief comment in this round, so we shall now proceed to the debate in accordance with the general rules, including too short remarks. The first one we are asking is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, whom I know has a small piece of paper for us, which we look forward to reading very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324171954	Thank you, President. If there is something that I appreciate, it is the fairness and the Rules of Procedure that are being observed at exactly the same time, and so this afternoon I shall have Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure, which is a pleasure. It is a pleasure to be heard, and therefore I am delighted to be able to present the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that a request was made by the parliamentary parties for an updated explanation of power during the debate on the motion for a resolution B 138 4 June last year. Against this background, a new explanation of power is to be drawn up and the Danish Parliament instructs the Minister, in the context of discussions on the research reserve, to convene the parties of the Danish Parliament for discussion of the terms of reference and financing of the work in question and for its implementation before the end of the calendar year. • V 99).
ParlaMint-DK_20210324172106	Thank you very much. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kasper Sand Kjær from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324172122	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. I just didn't expect Mr. Morten Messerschmidt would give such a brief speech to the rapporteur, but that is how one can be surprised here on Wednesday afternoon. This is, of course, a question debate following up on the resolution we were discussing in the spring, and it has, of course, been made clear, and I also think it is natural that we should stand together in such a broad circle of parties on a joint text for adoption to set something in motion on which we agree. Nevertheless, I think it is important, even though this is the second time we have the debate, just to put a few words on why it is so important that we get that work going. After all, a great deal has happened since the work on the final disclosure of power was completed in 2003 • we have had the whole digitalisation and social media input so that it has now become both a permanent part of many people's everyday lives, but also of the political work, democratic conversation and democracy as a whole. This has fundamentally changed the conditions for political dialogue, and I think that should give rise to some reflection, including in this House. More people have been given a mouthpiece, which is public. It has great potential, but it also presents some challenges. The debate, the tone has become harsh, the fronts are being pulled up sharply, and I often find that the debate on the digital platforms tends to drive us further apart than actually to make us wiser and more curious about each other's views. And I also believe that the tough tone actually prevents many Danes from taking part in the debate, even though they actually now have an access but did not have when the statement of power appeared in 2003. Digitalisation allows us to have access to news from all over the world. We have a news channel in Denmark, which is 24 hours a day, and it has enormous potential for better information and a better basis for democratic conversation, but it has also changed the basic conditions for media coverage of politics. More news needs to be produced more quickly, while our traditional media are increasingly competing with new media types and being challenged by the tech giants' business models, and a growing proportion of the population now have social media as their primary source of news, and this also means that sometimes you may be led into some news, without necessarily getting questions about what kind of source you are reading. So, on the one hand, there has been a great development which creates new democratic opportunities, but there is also a greater tendency for political and democratic dialogue to take place today in echo chambers on social media. After all, we have really seen the very worst consequences that it can have in the United States with the storm at Congress, where the extreme attitudes that were cultivated in closed virtual communities • conspiracy theories about how the world together led to a physical attack on democracy. If we look into the world, then democracy in the whole Western world is challenged. Everywhere in the world, democracy and democracies are under pressure, and just 10 and 20 years ago it was the opposite picture where we saw democracy flourishing in several parts of the world, and more and more countries turned into democracies, but now it is going the opposite way. After all, I belong to the generation that was born, the same year that the Berlin Wall fell, and we have grown up with an understanding that democracy would now be the only form of government that gained ground, and it has just been shown here 30 years later not to be right. In Denmark, we see an increasing inequality in terms of who is involved in democracy and, although we still have a record turnout, inequality is increasing right now in terms of elections. There will be a greater difference between the turnout of the cash aid recipient and the academic, which will be greater between young and old people's turnout, and we also see an increasing difference between who is involved in the association work and who is involved in the popular organisations. So there are plenty of good reasons to relate to the state of democracy and the distribution of power, because a great deal has happened since 2003. Should we then choose the same model as they did when the previous investigation of power was made? After all, the work ran from 1994 to 2003, it was relatively expensive, and it took a long time, so is that just the right way to do it again? I do not really feel convinced that we should just repeat it. First of all, we only have the research funds once, so should we spend so much money? I think that is a legitimate question. How do we ensure that there is an arm's length arm in the distribution of it if it is to be through the research reserve? So many questions can be asked about the concrete construction, but we have to clarify that in the negotiations that have to take place, and that is something that we now have a completely united Parliament and are committed to discussing in the context of the negotiations on the research reserve. We are very much looking forward to this in the Social Democratic Party, and I should like to welcome from the Enhedslisten and say that they are looking forward to it as well. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324172641	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324172701	Thank you very much, President. A new explanation of power was a good idea when the Danish People's Party came up with the resolution soon a year ago, and it has not become a less good idea. It's clear and I think it's also increasingly for ordinary Danes that power has moved, and you can think of that as what you want, but a lot of power in this government is centered around Prince Jørgens Gård. If you do not know exactly what is on the address, then it is the Prime Minister's Office, and we have a Prime Minister who, during the Corona crisis, has chosen to take a very central and strict management instead of putting decisions to authorities and municipalities and regions, but thus to gather power in the Prime Minister's Office. After all, it is a Prime Minister's privilege to organise how the government works, how much freedom the Minister should have, how much will be decided as Prime Minister. It's the Minister's privilege. But, on the other hand, it is important that we, as Parliament, are aware and that the people are aware of where power is centred, where decisions are made. So the wish of the Danish People's Party, which the Left has shared throughout, has not become less topical. One of the things I said on behalf of the Left, the last time we discussed the investigation of power in this Parliament, was that, unfortunately, power has moved from this room into closed spaces in the ministries. This is not something that is only true of this government; it is generally the case that more and more decisions are taken in secret in closed rooms rather than in public, and I think that is hard to change if you do not have a basis to see that there is something unhealthy in our folk rule, and that is why we need a new explanation of power to look at how power has moved since we last had a power release. Moreover, I fully agree with both the Minister and also the Socialist rapporteur on the power of social media. There you can pull out the Prime Minister again, because the Prime Minister has an instagram profile with which I believe when we have an election campaign, 500,000 followers, I would guess, and that is a huge power to have as Prime Minister. Now it is not so powerful to post pictures of food, but it can quickly be moved to some politics. There are also other politicians who have facebook profiles with a lot of followers or instagram profiles with a lot of followers, but what role does the free press play? Do you have to run for interviews? There are, of course, some things that change fundamentally in our people's government, where power moves, and we as citizens must pay close attention to that, but we as elected representatives must pay even more attention to it. The prerequisite for having a debate on this on an enlightened basis is that you have an explanation of power, and that is why I fully agree that we need a new explanation of power, and it must be available more quickly than before, because it took a little years. That is why I am sorry that the Minister and the government have not got started and that we now need to go straight ahead and waste time here repeating our views. So I would just like to call on the Minister, since there is now a vote, and we are all agreed on this, so that we can convene a meeting, get the discussions started. The funding is fair enough, but when you allocate the research reserve, there is quite a lot of money to do well with, that is 100 million. kr., and I don't imagine this is gonna cost, because it's a rather smaller amount. So I am not so worried about funding, but I think we need to get started talking about what should then be investigated and how it should be done. I would just recommend that we get this going before we go on summer vacation and maybe get an agreement on it, and I don't think it's that hard. So we are glad of what the Minister says and what the Minister said last time, but we are a little sad that nothing has happened, but hope that we can forgive the Minister for the loss if something is going on in the future, and we can, because we in the Left are preoccupied with it, just as I can understand the Danish People's Party and hopefully all the parties in the Danish Parliament are going to have a new investigation of power and find out where the power has moved, so that we can discuss on an informed and factual basis some of the changes it creates from our people's rule and from our democracy. And some of what is of enormous value, especially in a time of crisis such as the one we have been through, we need to have an honest conversation with each other about this, and we need researchers and experts to give us the basis for that. That is why we in the Left wholeheartedly support the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has presented, and I would like to commend the Danish People's Party for keeping an eye on this case. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324173148	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on. This is Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324173204	Thank you. Who is in power in today's Denmark? Is it the politicians, is it a particular group of citizens, or is it perhaps in fact the media, or the people behind the major social media platforms who are running the agenda? And is it even relevant for us to know? I asked those questions one year ago when we had the debate on the motion for a resolution. It has also been mentioned many times today. And I answer that I certainly think that is relevant for us to know. And that is why I am actually pleased that the Danish People's Party is taking up the debate again this year, since no parties took the initiative to make the disclosure of power part of the research reserve last year. I think I agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that there is no reason to repeat the same arguments over and over again. I just think that one thing that cannot be emphasised enough is how social media affect our democracy............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I also find it extremely frightening that we can see that there are some people who have seen that in the last few weeks we have just seen it come out saying that they are largely out of the public debate because the tone is too harsh on social media. And that is also a major problem for our democracy and for how power is distributed in Denmark. So there is no doubt that social media has an impact on who has power. And that is why I think it is a very good thing that we should have a new analysis of power, in addition to the fact that our society has, of course, changed on a great many other parameters also since 2003. I really do not think there is much more to say than that we are also very pleased with the joint adoption text that we have all been able to support, and that I look forward to discussing exactly what we need to have examined in the new analysis of power, and I hope that this social media issue will be a major part of it. And then we'll see how extensive it's gonna be. I also fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left that it should not be six years or how long it was last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324173426	Thank you. And there are no brief comments here either, so we go further. And that's for mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324173509	Thank you for the floor. In 1994, work began on the latest elucidation of power. The Danish Parliament set up a special committee with the formal name, and I quote: the committee on an analysis of democracy and power in Denmark. In the spring of 1997, only almost three years later, the committee issued a report which provided the starting point for the launch of a Danish investigation of power. The work was to last 5-7 years and led by independent research management. The report indicated that the following should be the subject of the work: the functioning of the population regime in the broad sense, including the influence of organisations, movements and economic power structures in society, and the consequences of internationalisation for transparency and visibility of decisions, influence and power in society. Yeah, it's to get Christmas lights in the eyes of a lawyer like me. In addition, the focus areas were that among other things: topics such as the Folketing and the parties, the public sector undergoing change, organisations, business and elite, political decision-making, opinion-making and the media in the political process and many other topics. You just have to make it clear that a lot of water has run into the stream since 2004. Because it is true that society is evolving all the time. Back then, no one knew about Facebook, Instagram, Twitter or Snapchat, and now it's the first thing many young people open when they get up in the morning. A message must be sent at Messenger or answered on a Snapchat that you didn't get the answer on the night before. The game Snake is replaced with hundreds of apps on the smartphone. There's a changed media image where TV2 News sends 24-7, 24/7. Breaking is coming right away, the new one is aging very quickly. The media sometimes cover political negotiations as if it were a football match. There is an analysis that is a prelude, reflection on the outcome, the appointment of winners and losers, despite the fact that, unlike the football match, they have not seen the actual match. Tweets are being sent instead of press releases, and in 2004, when the announcement of power came, it was a whole new thing that the Prime Minister had got a so-called spin doctor. Now all ministers have it, and some ministers have more than one, and in the ministries special political development units are being set up. And what does that really mean for democracy and for the relationship between government and parliament? Central government committees such as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Coordination have also been set up, and what is the significance of this for the political process? We are experiencing greater polarisation, greater divisions, and what does this really mean for public debate? What is confidence in politicians? And then the very theoretical question: has there been a shift of power from then to today between both parliament and government, but also between other actors? At that time, some felt that business had too much power. Others thought that the trade union organizations were too determined and there will certainly be patterns similar today. The role of parliamentarian has also developed. As a newly elected man, I don't want to learn more about it, but do we spend the time right? Does the public feel that there is easy access to us? And how do we use the political tools and use them properly? We can learn more from that, we can be better off. It never hurts, and maybe we can even learn from each other. The work must, of course, take place with full arm's length with an independent research performance and group and with freedom of method. Because the government of the people is constantly changing. As Winston Churchill said, democracy is not the best form of government, but it is the least poor one. I don't think I'm one to agree with him on that, but I wonder if we can always get better? Looking at ourselves in the seam can only be healthy and can it not create better solutions for the citizens in the end? That wouldn't be so bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324173944	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøl, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324174015	Thank you for calling this important debate. As other rapporteurs have said, this is a repeat from last year, but there was a little agreement that there was corona, and we were in a special situation, so it was perhaps not right now that we were going to launch a process of democracy and power. It is, of course, an extensive work, and perhaps there was no equal bandwidth for the huge task that we all faced. But democratic rights are, of course, the foundation of our Danish society and something that we have historically defended. In the mid-1970s, and above all after the landslide elections in 1973, it was widely believed that Danish democracy was in crisis. The crisis experience was clearly stated by Conservative Erik Haunstrup Clemmensen during a debate in the Danish Parliament in 1974: If this Parliament continues in the same way as we have seen it over the majority of the 1 year period that has now ended, I have become convinced that the people's regime in its present form simply does not survive the end of this decade. What if Clemmensen had experienced tech giants, SoMe and MeToo? What would he have said? Recently we met in the Democracy Commission, established by the Danish Youth Council. It was an interesting debate with newspaper editors, NGOs and professionals, and the focus was the tech giants. We have recently seen their great influence on democratic development. For we are constantly evolving, but this debate is very relevant: about the responsibility of the tech giants for the democratic conversation, information bubbles, disinformation that can spread, the tough tone, which has also been mentioned several times, the removal of Trump and Facebook's decommissioning in Australia, in other words in relation to news dissemination. Everyone is an example of how democracy is strongly influenced by new technological developments, and this can happen very quickly. Of course, it is also very good to say about technological developments. It also means that a lot of people have got a voice. But democracy has also changed very rapidly in Denmark over the last year. We saw this with the epidemic law, that is, how we suddenly agreed that we should change democracy completely. We had a lockdown. After all, there was a ban on assembly, and many fundamental rights were suddenly completely deprived of our citizens in confidence that we still manage democracy properly. It is certainly appropriate now that we are looking at how a new investigation of power should be carried out. It may not be as extensive as the 439 pages and about 50 books etc. that have been produced and be something that only happens every 20 years. Perhaps we need to take a democratisation check much more often, because we are in the very situations where we are doing, and that is also worldwide: in the fifth year in a row, democracy has gone back all over the world. In the European Union, democratic rights are also under strong pressure, as we see in certain countries. That is also why the European Union has made an effort to comply with the principles of the rule of law in order to obtain money from the European Union's treasury. So it is probably important for us to have a democratisation check much more frequently than every 20 years. But we have to discuss this in another forum and in a mandate. But we are very much in favour of this proposal and are also confident that the government, which, I understand, also supports the text of the Danish People's Party, is now taking this up together. It is a joint responsibility, so thank you to DF for raising the debate again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324174414	Thank you. There are no comments here either. New citizens are not coming, but I can see that Mr. Henrik Dahl is here from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324174441	Thank you for the floor. I shall be brief, also because I have had to spend part of my time on a conciliation which I myself was a part of and which is now just over. But I would like to thank you for having this debate and for making progress with the investigation of power. And I am really happy about that, and I sincerely say that the government will also be involved. For it is simply an important issue in which power has been lost in the 15 years since the beginning of the investigation of power. When the announcement of power was made one should not worry about foreign countries interfering in the political processes in Denmark or other countries, for example. There was no such thing as social media. The whole question of third countries using large quotas of residents living in, for example, the United Kingdom. Denmark, or other countries, was not something to be dealt with. There are so many things that have changed that it is quite natural. The only thing I want to mention, and unfortunately I do not know whether it has been mentioned, is that I have often, in the years I have been sitting in the Folketing, also felt some form of impotence. And it's a little strange when the Constitution says that we're the ones who have the power. That is why I hope that, in one way or another, the investigation of power can also become an eviction of power. Because it is a little strange that as a member of the Folketing you end up feeling powerlessness so many times. So did I when we were in government, and it's a little scary. And I shouldn't say it when it's sent all over the country that you can feel this impotence when you're sitting in parliament or in government. But we also need to be honest, which is why it is really important to look at that side of it as well. Because when we have a constitution that gives us power and you feel powerless, it is of course because something has happened, something that is really, really important, that we get unveiled. So this is a constructive day for the people of Denmark. I am very pleased about that, and in those words I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324174655	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324174708	Thank you for another round of very good and positive expressions, but also many different perspectives on, I think what power is and what this work can make us wiser. Now the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance dared to admit a certain momentary sense of impotence as elected from time to time. Now I'm about to round my tenth year in here, and I can recognize moments of that impotence. The whole dynamic between official work, government and parliament, and how we use our committee work... all these discussions were also part of our first round of discussions. But there are also the prospects of the slightly wider public conversation, both what you, as elected representatives, should actually put up with when you step out there and prevent some from even participating in our democracy in such a more direct way and stand up and be in elections? This applies both to researchers who take part in the public debate with their knowledge and make us all smarter and qualify that debate and who have to put up with even very serious inquiries afterwards directly on their person and their family. But it is also about everyone else who wants to take part in the public debate. In particular, attention has been paid to the cost to young women of participation in the public debate in relation to young men. Most recently, in Finland, we have seen research showing that the Finnish Prime Minister is receiving an unprecedented number of hateful messages. But there is also something in relation to the more daily trummerum where we say: The debate continues on Facebook. Yes, but for whom, and at what cost? And I am not saying that it has happened in 20 years, because I think it has happened over many years, but in many ways we have gone from the fact that there was a lot of political debate in parties, in assembly halls, in communities, in voluntary organisations and in associations. We still have a strong Association Denmark, and we still have a strong democracy, but a lot of this has been moved. At the same time, we have gone from having media, which may also have moved to a certain extent from having plenty of time for each story to having to deliver very fast news, where, as an elected official, you also sometimes get a feeling that there are limited opportunities to actually deal with the substance in depth with consequences for the public conversation. And then there is the whole perspective that an increasing group of people feels marginalised and to some extent feel without influence on their own lives and feel far away from where decisions are made, regardless of whether it is in their communities, at their workplace or on the slightly higher blade of democracy. And then there is the whole discussion of local democracies in front of the Folketing towards the EU and beyond. There are indeterminate prospects for this debate, which is why it is, first of all, gratifying that we are pointing in the direction of joint narrowing it in, but at the same time we are pointing out two points that we would like to do so. It is actually a very unique situation to have such a strong democracy, to have, after all, sober a public debate, to have after all such factual media and to continue to have such a high turnout compared to many of the other countries with which we usually compare ourselves. So I will be delighted as part of an elected government with a united Parliament to stand with a decision that we would actually like to safeguard that by becoming wiser. Thank you for that to everyone who has been part of the debate today, not least the proposer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175139	There is a brief comment. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175141	I have asked for the floor to express my thanks for a good speech, but also because there is, in fact, a subject that I would like to put on the record now that things are being recorded, and that is the issue of radicalisation. Because I had not really believed a year and a half ago that I would have to say something about radicalisation in a Danish context, but I have noticed that Michael Bang Petersen, as a follower of the corona epidemic, says that there is radicalisation potential in everything that has happened in the last 13-14 months. I think we should take this very seriously. I also think that we have been able to hear something that may sound like radicalisation in the Palace Square sometimes when we have dealt with matters here. So I hope that there can also be room to relate to radicalisation in a Danish context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175235	I see more of the questioner's comment as just that: one comment and another input into an important discussion. As I hear the questioner's comment, it is in fact in line with the feeling of marginalisation and the feeling of distrust, which is what can dawn radicalisation. I share the concern about the major clashes we have also seen in other Western countries and that we have seen the tenderness of the same thing in Denmark. And I would just like to make it clear here, also from the floor of the Danish Parliament, that what the questioner refers to, I share both the analysis and the concern that has somehow become more present to talk about in a Danish context within the last year than it was before. Let's have it on the block, too, in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175336	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, as rapporteur for the questioners, would like to round off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175348	Thank you, President. All right, that's it. Then we'll take a look at what has happened, or rather hasn't happened in the last nine months, and hopefully we'll get together soon and get this work started. I think it has been gifted and reflected comments from all those who have spoken here today. Thank you, too, Mr. Henrik Dahl for so with his tongue out of his throat to enter the hall to prioritize being here. That is very commendable. Thank you for your comment, too. For it is, as if there has been a change in recent years, also among us and also in the political debate. We pay tribute every day to the unity of Danish democracy, but I also believe that we can all, or at least most of us, sense that it is, as if something has happened in the past year, the last few years. It is like there is no longer any bottom limit to what can be said and what can be spread, among other things. on social media. Just in the last 24 hours, I've spent a disproportionately large part of my time explaining what a coronapas is and what it isn't. And you are wondering who in the world has an interest in so questioning the difference between a coronapa and a vaccine pass, in order to make people think that one is the other and the other is not the one, and so on. After all, all these things are essential for popular support for our governance, for our democracy. Words actually matter. That is why I am glad that, yes, I think, almost all the parties of the Danish Parliament, because I sense that the absence of Enhedslisten on the proposal for adoption is more an expression of the fact that the rapporteur might not be able to be reached today than it is a real opt-out from being included in the proposal for adoption. After all, this testifies to the fact that we can unite together in the sense of fairness and orderlyness, and in this way also stand together to strengthen democracy, and that is very important. The Minister is absolutely right to open up the debate on what power is and where power lies, so there are a great many themes. The Minister himself has referred to the whole issue of international affairs. At least today, when I was sitting in the Folketing for the first time ten years ago, I find that very often it is not one's colleagues from the other parties who are actually negotiating with, but a question of international conventions and their interpretation. You sit around a table and say: we all really want to come here, but can we? This is more and more often a question than: Can we, and how? It is therefore a relevant matter to uncover, as I fully agree with the rapporteur of the SF, I think, wise considerations about the ever-growing dominance of the tech giants. How many of us have not experienced putting things on Twitter or Facebook or YouTube, Instagram etc. and then just had to go through some algorithm, some filter, where an American nerd or not nerd, I don't know, maybe it's not even a human being to sit and decide if we can say what we say and how we say it. These are exciting and significant dilemmas that we need to learn more about. I also think, in view of the concerns of Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll in relation to what is happening in other countries, that it is uplifting that in the Danish Parliament we can thus stand together to say that we can find out, because we will not compromise, we will not accept that it is an excuse, President, I simply do not know what the Danish race to the bottom is called. I'm sorry. But we will not accept it. We'll do better. And I think that with the uplifting tone we will soon be able to vote through this proposal for adoption, and perhaps with a little hope the government will even act without formally voting through, and perhaps take the initiative already now. That would be nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175825	Thank you. No, I don't know what it's called either. But I think that when it was just noticed that you could not find the Danish word, then it can go through. Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175833	Thank you. I think maybe race to the bottom is what you're looking for. I just think, particularly with the rapporteur's last comment on how good it is that we stand together here in the Danish Parliament to give a critical look or an exploratory look at the people's regime and our democracy, that it should also be carried here and said loudly that the Enhedslisten would also like to be included in the proposal for adoption and endorse it. It just, I think, contains something hugely beautiful. And then I would just like to thank the rapporteur for raising the debate so that we can get on with our work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175906	I'm very pleased to hear that. And also thank you very much for the expression of cooperation across the middle that the Social Democrat rapporteur will translate my English expression into Danish. Where is this not gonna end? You are almost tempted to say, the cloud is the limit, but I dare not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175924	No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. Thus, I feel encouraged to say that the vote on the proposed adoption, as mentioned, will not take place until Tuesday 6 April 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210324175943	The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has presented a report on the urgency of the government's legislative proposals. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has submitted a report and recommendation on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing. The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Friday 26 March 2021 at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
