ParlaMint-DK_20211209101502	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209101508	The item listed as No. 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209101529	The vote shall be taken on the agenda for the second reading. Pursuant to Paragraph 42, 3/4 of the Rules of Procedure, such consent shall be subject to majority voting. The vote may be taken on consent. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and SP), against which 0 abstained 0. Here with consent given.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209101556	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 20 by Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 26 (S), against 70 (V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and SP), abstentions 0. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 20 rejected. The vote shall then be taken on the proposal for adoption No. V 19 by Marcus Knuth (KF), Morten Dahlin (V), Marie Krarup (DF) and Mette Thiesen (NB). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 41 (V, DF,, KF, NB, LA, SP and 1 (RV) (by mistake)), against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. W 19 rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 21 by Susan Kronborg (RV), Carl Valentin (SF) and Peder Hvelplund (EL). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 29 (SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT) voted against 69 (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA and SP), abstentions 0. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive. V 21 rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209101736	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209101750	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and SP) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the State Minster.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209101812	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209101830	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. 89 (S, V, Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Morten Messerschmidt (DF), SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and SP) voted against 0, abstentions 9 (DF, NB). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209101853	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209101906	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and SP), against 2 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209101930	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209101942	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and SP), against 2 (FG), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209102003	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209102019	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209102032	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209102048	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL and FG) and can be voted on. In favour, 27 (DF, SF, EL, FG and ALT) voted against 69 (S, V, Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Morten Messerschmidt (DF), RV, KF, LA and SP), abstained 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 1, 3 and 4, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209102143	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209102200	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? As this is not the case, the amendment has been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We have finished the vote and I would ask those who do not wish to take part in the debate to leave the Chamber quietly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209102331	Now I think we have had time to leave the Parliamentary Chamber. I would therefore ask that any discussions continue outside the Parliamentary Chamber. We are now moving on to the agenda. The debate is open. Here you go to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209102351	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Liberal Alliance for raising this agenda. I always think it is a good idea to discuss the framework we want both for our children and for families and for the community. In other words, even when we disagree, I think it is healthy that we should have these more fundamental discussions. With the proposal, the proposers want to require the government to submit legislative proposals before the end of this parliamentary year to abolish the current possibility for municipalities to grant a subsidy for the care of their own children, according to section 86 of the daily offer law, and instead of introducing the following three measures: First, a deduction of DKr 130,000 is proposed. in the working parent's tax payment and the possibility for parents to go home and care for their children for up to 3 years. The proposers then propose to finance the proposal by reducing the graduation allowance to DKK 8,000. a month. First of all, I should like to pay tribute to the fact that there is at least funding. That is not always the case in the motions for resolutions. That's always something you can say. Secondly, if the family wishes to use a private care scheme, they must receive a grant from the municipality corresponding to the cost of an old-age daily offer to the municipality. Thirdly, it is proposed to deregulate the day-to-day supply area in order to facilitate the creation of free and private day-to-day services. In concrete terms, the Liberal Alliance wants no higher demands to be made on a private institution than on a municipal institution. And that is what the proposal is all about. There should be no doubt that everyone in this Parliament hall, regardless of party color, has a desire to give priority to good children's life, but we just don't quite agree on what it is and how to create the best framework around it. I consider day care and day care to be the cornerstone of our welfare society. In Denmark we actually have a rather peculiar tradition of having good day care facilities and have very high levels of trained staff and, moreover, requirements for the quality of teaching. I appreciate that very much. And in these years, we are actually moving towards an even more trained staff in our day care institutions. I also appreciate that movement very much. For me, it is important that children meet other children and relate to other children from the very young, that is to say, they are also included in communities that cross and cross the differences that exist in our society. And also the community itself and the children's communities that are in day care and the day care and kindergarten and later in the classroom, I think are really important for the formation of a generation. In the children's communities, children learn that we are different from each other and that we have to take account of each other, and they learn to be with each other and to enter into the relationships that are there. Of course, they also learn that children do not necessarily look alike and that they do not all look like you, and I think that is something you do well with. Recently, we were discussing the draft law on the introduction of minimum standards in the day institutions, and we are adding 1.8 billion. kr. to our children from 2024 onwards. It is a huge investment in good children's life, and we will also have to deal with this agreement with a proposal on how to move forward with more and more people in our day care institutions wanting to receive education. It is not because there is something wrong with those who are in the day institutions and do not have education, but there must be an offer that you will have even better opportunities than today to take some education on top of the good experience you have in working with children. All in all, I would say that day care and day care with my glasses are thus seen as the foundation of good children's life, and that one should not underestimate how much it means that there is quality in those things. That is why I think it should also be central in the way I answer this question. In other words, when we choose to prioritise money in this way, and that is quite a different way than that of the Liberal Alliance, it is because we want to invest it instead of giving it as a tax credit to some who want to go home for three years. They're free to go home for three years. There is no legislation on that. But when we do not want to support it by means of a tax credit, it is because we want to spend the money to ensure that there is proper educational quality and minimum standards, and thus also further develop the Danish tradition that there is a high level of quality in our day offer. Therefore, it makes a difference whether what you want is to spend the money on more parents going home and caring for their own children, or whether parents instead can get good quality day offers. Then, on the subject of private services, I would like to say that there are some things that always get mixed up in that debate, so I would just like to dwell on it a little first. We have a long tradition in Denmark. It was, moreover, the Social Democratic Party that took the initiative of free kindergartens at the time to have self-owning, i.e. private institutions in Denmark. Just so that everyone who listens is also aware of this and I am sure that the rapporteur knows very well that there is a difference between private services and private institutions. What is important to me in order to separate it is to say that I have a very large veneration that we have the opportunity to have different types of care and that there are self-serving institutions in Denmark. When I strike at the private care systems in general, it is because there are no quality standards. There I think there is a concern to take into account that, as parents too, we should be sure that when money comes with, there is also quality. That is why I am quite concerned about the whole idea of private services, not about private institutions, not about the fact that there is a private alternative to the municipal, because that is what I think is fine. And, as I said, I actually think it was the Social Democratic Party that invented the free kindergartens at the time. So it's part of our roots in Social Democracy. But private care services, for example. I do not have the quality standard laid down in the teaching curriculum, and where parents do not have a legally guaranteed right to influence the provision of care, I think it is simply a bad thing. And that means that that part of our day offer has not grown in the backyard of social democracy. That is why I would like to say that the government clearly wishes to give priority to high-quality day-to-day services, where children have a good and safe everyday life and where they are seen and heard, and where, moreover, parents are also seen and heard. That is why we believe that the way to invest, as we have done with the minimum standards, is the right one. Then there is the Liberal Alliance's third proposal to deregulate the day-off area. Here, the Liberal Alliance proposes that no higher demands should be made on a private institution. We are now in private institutions, not private services, just to re-establish the dividing line than a municipal institution, just as the Liberal Alliance believes it should be easier to set up private institutions. Unfortunately, the motion for a resolution does not show how it should be easier, which is why it is a little difficult to deal with. It just says it has to be easier. But that is of course interesting to look at, and if the Liberal Alliance has any concrete proposals on that, I would of course like to look at it. But I have to say that it is the case today that it is a legal requirement that the municipalities must impose requirements on private institutions, in other words the so-called approval criteria, which must not be stricter or less stringent than the requirements they impose on their own offers. That is why there is nothing new in the part of what the Liberal Alliance is proposing. Then I would like to say that I would like to stress once again that there are several types of private offer in the day-to-day area. Parents can, for example. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. That is why I am always very concerned that we like to put everything in a hat and say that everything that is private is wrong, and everything that is public is good or vice versa, that you say that everything that is private is good and everything that is public is bad. Because I believe in this whole quality standard thing, and whether you're public or private, you obviously have to live up to it. Therefore, I do not think it should be such a discussion for or against the private sector, but perhaps rather a discussion about whether you are for or against quality standards. That is why I am quite concerned about having to go in and do something that supports part of our care systems that do not have the quality standards. This does not, of course, apply to the last part of the proposal, which deals with private institutions. It is therefore the case that these rules apply that there must be neither tighter nor less stringent demands on the part of the municipality to the private institutions than they are made to their own. But of course I am curious to hear whether the Liberal Alliance has any concrete good ideas on how it could be easier to establish itself as a private institution. We will, of course, look at this openly, because there we are talking about a type of institution that is so we cannot support the proposal to pay parents to care for their own children. We have priority instead of spending the money on having good quality day offers. We cannot support the proposal to increase the subsidy for private care because there are no quality standards. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution and, of course, I am curious to hear whether there is anything about providing easier access to the creation of private institutions. I always think it is good to have a debate on the framework for children's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103332	Thank you. We're gonna get enough of that now, because now it's Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103338	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good answer, not that I agree with the answer, but that is a response to the motion for a resolution and the motion for a resolution. It is a matter of fact, and I would actually like to sign for it. After all, it is the good family and child life that is at the heart of this, and the Minister then points out that it is among other things. is concerned with several educators and good day care institutions. I agree that good day care facilities are also part of good family and child life. But it is not the only thing that creates the good family life, that is, that there are many educators in kindergarten. There are two basic issues, this proposal addresses. One is that there are very many families who want to spend more time with children while they are very young, but that they can have difficulty in doing so financially. It is often well-trained people who are also committed to their careers, but would like to have a few years where they can spend more time with the children. Does the Minister agree that it would be good to do something to ensure that families can spend more time with children and that it is also good children's lives? Now the President stands up, so I have to take the final part of the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103446	When the President gets up, it is because the speaking time is well exceeded. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103451	I think that families should adapt as they wish, and if they consider it to be good for their family life and their children, then they should be warmly welcome to it, and I am sure that they can benefit from it both as a family and in relation to children if they consider it to be the right thing to do. There we are different and have arranged our families differently, and I think there should be room for that. But the question here is whether we want to spend money on it. And I would like to say that, in the priority of resources, the government has given priority to spending them on quality in the day institutions instead. Furthermore, in connection with a recent debate on day-care institutions, I was quite concerned here in the Chamber because we could not get a clear answer from the bourgeois parties as to whether or not we wanted to roll back minimum standards in the context of elections. That is why I just think that, at the heart of this discussion, there is also a clear discussion on priorities. From the government's side, we've set 1.8 billion. kr. to better day care institutions. Now I commended the fact that there was actually funding here, which means that the two things in this context are not related to each other, and therefore also the praise that funding has been given.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103557	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103558	That is why it is actually a false contradiction that it is not possible to strengthen the ability of families to spend more time with their children without weakening the day institutions or their qualities. So that's a false contradiction. But we also have to get past the private kindergarten. What can you do? In other words, we could first of all ensure that they are allowed to have a surplus they are dragging on. After all, the government wants to ban profit in welfare, as it says, which means that for the vast majority of people it will not be worthwhile to start a private kindergarten in the future. I sensed a little that the Minister actually has a veneration for private kindergartens, so why do you make a policy that would ban entrepreneurship in the kindergartens sector de facto?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103638	Well, I just think that the characteristics are wrong. These are the same rules that apply in the field of free and private schools, and free and private schools have been growing significantly, for example. Over the last 10 years. This means that there is a lot of entrepreneurship in the school sector, even though it has always been forbidden to make profits. That is why I regard this as a false contradiction. Then I would like to say that it is quite true that the other is a false contradiction. In fact, that is why I commended you on finding other funding. Because it is absolutely true that if you want to give priority to money for people to go home with children for three years, you can of course do that. After all, it is only a question of political will and a majority in the Folketing. We would rather spend the money on something else, and we ourselves have made proposals on the graduation rate, and have proposed that, among other things. should be invested in our education system. So it's just to say that for us, as a government, there are a lot of things we want to prioritise more.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103728	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103731	Thank you so much. In 2018, the research institute Wilke conducted a study that showed that especially mothers had a really bad conscience that they didn't have enough time with their children. And if we also know from the motion for a resolution that Danish children have a European record in being the longest in day care, does the Minister really not believe that it is important to take action and provide better opportunities, also financially, for parents to give priority to going home with their children, especially when we know that the first 1,000 days are so extremely important?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103810	I mean, I think that's a freedom that parents have, and I think that's a freedom that they should have... that they have the opportunity to give priority to going home. And I have in my own family both some in my own generation, where one has been chosen to go home, and other parts of my family where one has not done so. And there will be a difference in how you as a family choose to conform. But what is the proposal in the resolution we are debating here today is not whether to have that freedom or not; it is whether to make a very large deduction for it or not. And it is more important for the government to spend money on quality in day care institutions, for example; it is also important for us to invest in our education system. We have proposed that a large amount of money be spent on investment in education, and that is where we have chosen to play the graduation, which is the source of funding here. It's just to say that on the wish list you have of things you want to do better in our society, there are some other things that are higher on the government's wish list than this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103903	Mette Thiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103905	That is a clear answer. What is said de facto by the Social Democrats is that only the rich should have the opportunity to go home and look after their children. This makes it economically possible for those families who today are deeply dependent on having two incomes and who therefore do not have the opportunity to go home and look after their children. That's exactly what this proposal addresses. Why is it that the Social Democratic Party has so much against the fact that even ordinary Danes with middle incomes and perhaps even low incomes have better opportunities to go home and care for their children for the important first 1,000 days?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103946	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209103948	It could also be those who choose to live in very cheap housing in the countryside and therefore can manage for one income. Well, in that way, there's a very big difference between what choices you make around your family. And that means that, of course, when you do not go in and pay people for it, there will be a limit on what you can, and that means that those choices will of course be harder to take than if you received money from the state. And on the part of the Social Democrats, we want to give priority to obtaining quality in day-to-day services and, moreover, quality in education and schools than to give a deduction for going home with your children for the first three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104023	Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104025	Thank you. When I take the floor, this is actually due to the fact that the Minister is again standing on the floor, claiming that bourgeois-liberal parties, including the Left, should be against minimum standards. This is just factually wrong, and we have had that discussion in other contexts too. We are not going to roll back the minimum standards. We support better standards in our day care institutions. But there is no contradiction between that and the desire for free choice. Where the problem is that the line taken by the Socialist Government is that it wants to destroy the private institutions and the opportunities, for example, for children to be cared for in private care provision. So just to make it clear: the opposite in the field of children is not for or against minimum standards, but for or against free choice. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he does not agree with some of the elements contained in the LA proposal, among others. What is at stake is basically deregulating, so that we recognise that there must be less bureaucracy, less rigid legislation and more free choice in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104131	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104132	There are two things. Firstly, thank you very much for a clear answer on the issue of minimum standards. Now it was not Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby who was the rapporteur of the Left on that day, and that may be why the ambiguity arose. That is certainly clear now and thank you for the clear answer. That is exactly the answer that we could not get on that day in the Parliamentary Assembly. It may well be that Conservatives, as opposed to that day, are following up on being equally clear in the spit today. I don't know. So on the second point: as I said in my opening speech, the Liberal Alliance writes that it must be easier to establish itself as a private institution. The private institutions, unlike the private services, are actually subject to quality standards similar to those in the public institutions, so I have no problem in principle with them. Unfortunately, no proposals are made as to what should make it easier. However, my door is open and that is to say, if you come up with any concrete proposals on how to make it easier, I would like to discuss them. But I have no desire to make it easier to choose something of poor quality. I simply do not think that is meaningful.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104229	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104231	I believe that we should be confident that parents can see when an offer has a poor quality, and there are unfortunately municipal examples of these, and there are certainly private offers where quality is not as good as one might wish. That is why it is also defined what quality standards should be as a minimum and what should be complied with in terms of legislation. But let me make a suggestion as to where the Minister could take up the matter. After all, the Minister could not implement the legislation that is under way right now, which will make it more difficult to establish a private institution. It's kind of a place you could grab. I would really like to hear from the Minister when he answers that the Minister has no wish to do so, how it can be that we have to deal with another legislation which actually makes it more difficult to establish itself as a private institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104316	I think that is simply wrong. I simply do not accept the premise. I do not see it as becoming more difficult to establish oneself as a private institution. Compare free school legislation has always been the case that there has been a marked increase in the number of free schools, and this is the same type of legislation that we are implementing here. So I simply do not accept that premise. Then I would like to say that, in relation to the private services sector, I believe that, when there is government money, there must also be a quality standard. This is not the case today, but private institutions must do so, but not private care. I don't think that's good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104356	Thank you. We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. And that means that we are now embarking on the rapporteur's round and we are starting with Jens Joel, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104411	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the Liberal Alliance for tabling the motion for a resolution which, in fact, not only raises this debate about what is good child life, but also raises a discussion about what very many parents feel about, namely that it is difficult to make family and working life and something like that work together. I think it is such a little bit funny that when we hear from the Liberal Alliance, it is usually something about all proposals being proposals that need to get more labour out and that it is extremely important to get more hands into the economy and get more labour supply. But here we have to see that the Liberal Alliance is really going the other way too, and it is, in fact, dressable to show some nuances. In fact, I shall begin by answering this motion for a resolution in relation to the first part of the resolution. To the first area, which is of course about economics and priorities, I would like to say that I am not surprisingly in line with the Minister as regards the money that the Liberal Alliance is proposing here in order to go home and look after its children. This corresponds very well to the money we have chosen to invest in higher quality in our joint day-to-day offer, and it is, of course, part of the agreement on minimum standards, but it could also be in other areas where, like the good children's lives that are in the institutions, they are also strengthening. And it is also true, of course, that there is also a point in being in an institution at some point in life, because becoming a whole and formed human being, a citizen, of course, is also to be part of some communities and very much like, seen with our glasses, with someone who does not have the same background as oneself. Then there is this challenge about the supply of work, and it is true that with what is being proposed here, we take a little from one place and give a little to the other, and overall it goes up, but it is clear that the supply of labour contained in the financing proposal is also going to be applied in relation to the other reforms we have proposed, but we cannot spend the money twice, and that is why it is a no from here. Then I also think that there is a problem of equality that we need to discuss with each other, and that is not because, as a parliamentary politician, I have to choose which one of the parents goes at home, but it is just because we have a challenge with equal pay, we have a challenge with the fact that it has very often been the one with the lowest pay, which is the one that ends up going at home, and that, in fact, only reinforces the unequal pay problem we have. And that is why I think we should be honest about it and say that a proposal like this will probably contribute to an even greater wage gap and even more so to the fact that it is the mother, the woman in the family who ends up taking advantage of this opportunity and that it may have consequences and some challenges for wage formation. On the subject of private caring subsidies, I am a little in doubt about exactly what the Liberal Alliance is aiming at. And I apologise to the chairman for coming up a little late, but it was because I was looking up on the City of Copenhagen's website to see what the rate really is, and the truth is that you can get subsidies for private care, for example in the City of Copenhagen, and I found it yesterday, but I couldn't remember the number, and so I wanted to look it up again. So I actually have some doubts about what the Liberal Alliance is missing here. There is private pass, and you can, for example, also get a grant that is somewhat larger than the own payment, to use those offers. So to the end of the matter of deregulation: we have to discuss this. We do not have a need to be more rigid than necessary, and we would very much like to discuss how to set them up. We do not really have a problem with what it is, and therefore it is a little difficult to answer whether you agree, but basically we have no problem with private day care institutions and private day care, because they are regulated in the same way as the public and the self-serving.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104817	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104820	Thank you. There are many things we could do here, but let's try to get to grips with this equality issue. When we make this proposal, I think of a good friend I have named Steffen, and he has a wife named Louise. They have two children, both of them small. By the way, they're both what I'd call career people. Louise is an employee of the Ministry of Finance and is a former consultant. Stef is independent. They both have a relatively high income, but they are not in any way someone you can call rich people for that reason. Louise had a huge desire to be a little longer at home with the little ones, at least the smallest one, and that would of course mean that she would perhaps career-wise lag behind Steffen if it was that she had such a deduction option here. And then I want to say, "So what?" If she deliberately, as a career woman, a former consultant, an employee of the Ministry of Finance, says: I am willing to lose a little bit in salary in the long run, by giving me an extra six months with my daughter; that makes my life better, what is the problem in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104925	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209104927	There is no problem with that for Louise, just as there would be no problem in it if it were Steffen who had chosen it. What I am referring to is, in fact, the structures we have and where we actually have a challenge with the fact that there is a difference between men and women in the labour market. Some of the differences can be traced back to the fact that there have been structures that have encouraged the one party to take up the task, for example in the field of maternity, and I just think that we need to discuss this with each other. I think that is part of this discussion, and that is why I raised it not because I think it is an easy answer, but I think we need to discuss whether the things we support from society really contribute to creating some problems at a structural level.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105014	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105016	I am happy to take the debate because I also think it is an exciting debate, and I very much disagree. It is true that there are some differences between men and women, because on average men and women are different. If you are going to look at the reasons behind what it is then for some different choices that give some different pay results, yes, it is primarily training and job choices: that there are some who voluntarily choose some jobs that are not as well paid as some quite other jobs in other industries, and that women also voluntarily want to take a part of the bar. If the resources are the sole result of free choice and freedom and the only way to achieve success is to reduce freedom and freedom of choice, is the rapporteur willing to do so, or does the rapporteur not see that this is not really a problem of success as long as it is the result of freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105102	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105103	If the result is complete freedom, I think I may feel a little different from the President of the Liberal Alliance from looking at structures as well. It is true that there is a difference between wages in different jobs, but even when you correct for different jobs, there is also a difference between wages between men and women, and the rapporteur cannot explain this with reference to free elections. It has arisen from something else, and this is the discussion that we, of course, also have to have with each other if we in society are to pay to contribute to structural inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105140	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105143	I simply have to correct the rapporteur. It is not society or the state that has to pay someone for anything. It is about people being allowed to keep more of their own money to be able to prioritize as they want. It is just to correct the misunderstanding, which appears to often arise in the Social Democratic Party, that it is the money of the state or society that it is not. It's people's own money that they paid in taxes and that they get to keep a little more of. But I would really like to ask a few questions about the free choice which has also been mentioned here. Does this mean that the Social Democrat rapporteur believes that the rapporteur, the Social Democrat and the politicians know better than the parents who actually want to make this priority 'yes' or 'no'?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105224	No, and when we talk about society's money and what we support, it is not because some of us believe that it is the politicians' money. It is, of course, the money we have agreed with each other to throw into the community that society also is. Then the bourgeois politicians can describe it in all possible ways, but the bottom line is that we are making a change of priority here, that is to say a redistribution in relation to the existing situation, and that is where I say that we must, of course, discuss whether it is the most sensible use of the money we have at our disposal. Because it is well known that one would like to reduce the tax burden, perhaps even more so from the side of the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, and that is what one should only propose, but I do not think one should choose to wage a tax war under the guise of the fact that it is really about creating good children's lives or anything else. You could also just say that you want to put the tax down, and then it will always be easier for people to have time and afford to do something more for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105324	Mette Thiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105326	Not surprisingly, I do not really get an answer from the Socialist rapporteur on what I really ask. And no, the thing about putting the treasure down is letting people keep more of their own money so that they can adjust as they please, and so that they can create the good life. Unfortunately, there are a great many families in the Socialist hamster wheel today who, economically speaking, cannot afford one to go home and look after the children. But I have to put the question to the rapporteur again, because the rapporteur did not reply: does the rapporteur really believe that the rapporteur, the Social Democrats and politicians know better how families should organize their lives than families do themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105405	No, but what has been proposed here is that we must politically support something, and that is where we say that we would rather support something else. This is a real political discussion. It has nothing to do with one's being able to set up one's life as one wants to do what is the question here, is what the state or we, as a society, are supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105426	Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105429	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we have very much sympathy for this resolution. We think it is an incredibly good idea to give families more opportunity to take care of their own children, and we think it is a pity that the Socialists are always sticking a stick in the wheel when it comes to this. But we are concerned that this motion for a resolution might give immigrant groups, ghettos too much opportunity to isolate themselves by keeping the children at home. We can see that some fence posts have been set down, but we do not think that enough has been set down. Now I should rather reveal that I am cheating a little, because I can see that I will be chairing a meeting of the Committee on the Rights of the Child in five minutes' time, so I cannot give a rapporteur's speech. That is why I am cheating and holding it as a question to the Socialists, and I can at the same time scold at the fact that the Socialists are once again bent on making an attempt to give greater freedom to the Danish families of children and give greater opportunity for Danish children to be at home with their families.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105535	I would like to say to Mrs Krarup that there is a very wide scope for using her brief remark, so there are no problems. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105543	I do not know whether I fully realized whether you are voting yes or no to the resolution, but bad about it. I understood the point made by Mrs Krarup, and I started by saying that the discussion on how to make working life and family life come together seems to me to be an important discussion. The Danish People's Party has had other suggestions that you should be able to go home, as I remember, and get a daily allowance to go home, and this presents some of the same challenges as this proposal. It is, of course, as the Minister also said, that one has the freedom to organise one's family life as one wishes. Here we are discussing what we, as a society, are spending on the money we have decided to spend together. Are we using them for minimum standards and better conditions in the day institutions, or are we using them to make tax deductions or, for that matter, today money transfers to families? And we may have a disagreement there, but that does not mean that we do not recognise the challenge that some families feel they are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105644	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105646	However, there is the fact that we agree with the proposers that we need to use some of society's resources to support families to look after their children themselves. We therefore call for a report to be drawn up in this area, because we also have some details in this resolution which we consider to be problematic, among other things. the fact that you will be able to isolate yourself in the ghettos with your own children and talk Turkish and Arabic together, even if you make sure that the parents are familiar with Danish. We are also concerned that such a tax credit will not be very, very difficult to administer. However, we very much welcome many of the measures, so I think that a report could be a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105725	Thank you. Now I have just had the discussion with the New Citizens' rapporteur on this issue of free choice, and whether as a politician I was better at making decisions than the families themselves, and Mrs Marie Krarup points out so very well one of the dilemmas that exists in this, because I would believe, without the New Citizens' rapporteur saying that New Citizens would also think that it was a problem if we isolated ourselves in the ghettoes of this. That is why the free choice is not quite so free for all of us, at least in the version that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105756	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209105806	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Liberal Alliance for bringing this up, I think, very exciting subject, and let me start my speech by stating that the Left supports the intentions contained in the proposal here, i.e. the intention to give Danish families of children greater freedom to organise their daily lives. Family life should not be organized on the basis of the state, but rather on the basis of the families of children. I think that lies in the proposal, and we in the Left agree with that. It can be said that the proposal here is actually on three legs, which can be summed up as deregulation of the day-to-day provision area, tax exemptions for the care of own children and, finally, subsidies for private childcare. In the Left, we would very much like to look at the possibilities of making it easier to create private care services. There must be a framework; there must be a framework that ensures a certain standard or quality that we offer to our children, but there should be no requirements for private offers other than for public offers. That would be wrong. However, a number of questions could be raised, including in this area, and ask: how big is the problem in this area? The Minister also mentioned this. And: What are these requirements that are currently preventing private people from setting up these services? We in the Left would be very interesting to continue diving into this and we are very open to looking at the possibilities of actual deregulation in this area. The proposal also contains a whole new type of deduction in the personal tax with a deduction of DKr 130,000. to take care of a child in the crèche and 73,000 kr. to take care of a child in kindergarten at home. It is also proposed that if the full deduction cannot be made in the family, half of the deduction can be paid as a subsidy. It is true that with this proposed care scheme parents will actually have the opportunity to look after their children, at least if there is more than one, for up to 6 years, and there are a number of issues that need to be clarified in the subsequent work in relation to this particular part. These are questions which we in the Left certainly need to clarify. In other words, encouraging the care of your own children at home rather than being on the labour market may well be a discussion about whether you think this is a good idea or a bad idea, but we are in a situation at the moment when we are screaming for labour in our companies, and so we have to find out how many people are going to make use of it here and what it is going to mean for the labour market. I think we should go into this with our eyes open. There is also in the Left the concern that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party just raised a moment ago whether the proposal here could lead to increased, we should call it ghettoisation. We are afraid that it can go that way, and this is an area we have worked together to prevent. Let me just give you one example: this is that we introduced compulsory learning services for 1-year-olds in vulnerable residential areas. We must be careful that we do not bend our feet here. We also need to clarify how this deduction will work in relation to the Eastern European labour force that is here in Denmark. It is the case that the motion for a resolution says that the Minister has not been able to tell us what it will cost to extend the scheme here from one to three years, and there we are left with the wish to try further work to get the drill a little more out and see what it costs and how much demand is. So there are a number of issues we need to deepen. As far as funding is concerned, it has been proposed to reduce the rate of graduating. I can tell you that the Left itself has proposed this in its financial bill. However, we have chosen to spend the money elsewhere, and that is why we also need to discuss the funding for the proposal here. However, let me conclude by saying that we in the Left believe that there are a great many good tactics in the proposal, more freedom for families with children, deregulation and better conditions for private actors, and we are very much looking forward to working on this in committee, because, as I said, we need more answers before we can finally adopt the resolution here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110316	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110319	Thank you. And thank you for supporting the intentions; we look forward to working on that in committee, and perhaps even more important when there is a blue majority. Let us make that choice so that we can do something more for the freedom of families. I would just like to inform the rapporteur about the funding: it is the case that these DKr 130 000. is what a child in a daycare institution costs and the cost of the daycare institution, if the child is not in the daycare institution, is not there, so it finances the tax credit. Where there is a loss of revenue for the Treasury, there are some parents who will work less for a period of time and we then finance it by lowering the rate of graduating. So I just wanted to tell you about it, and I look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110402	Thanks for that, and if I had figured that out, I could tell you. But that does not change the need for funding, and this has also been written in the motion for a resolution itself. You can only spend the money once, and there we have committed to the other side. That is why, as far as we are concerned, we need to look at the funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110420	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110422	Thank you. Well, I actually have such a marvellous question for the Left, because I do not really think it was clear from the rapporteur's speech: Does the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, believe that it is important that Danish families have the opportunity to choose for themselves how to prioritise their time for the first important years of the child's life?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110455	The very short answer to that question will be yes, but a yes comes in this room often with one but afterwards. It's the way in this Things that we have to prioritize; we have to look at how it is that our society is best connected. Of course, it is easy to look down into individual elements and relate to them, but what is the spilling effect it wants? And there we just have to go into it with our eyes open and say that this proposal will have a spill-over effect on our employment. We have to go into that with our eyes open. This does not mean that we do not think this is a good idea, but we need to look at it with our eyes open.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110529	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110531	Thank you. And thank you for clarifying it or at least getting along the way with it. I mean, this is about little kids. We know that the first 1,000 days of a child's life are the allerals most important. And we also know that if something goes wrong for the first 1,000 days, that is, if you don't have this good, harmonious, and so on. start life, and it may end up having consequences at the end. There I just get a little worried when the Left stands and speaks, because it sounds almost like something the Social Democrats would say: that it is almost more important that parents are out on the labour market than it is that they give priority to caring for their children at home. So I just have to ask again: what is most important for the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110609	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110610	Well, it's important to the Left that we have a society that is all connected. And that is why it is difficult to answer when the rapporteur looks down very specifically in a single area and asks for a yes-no answer to that question. Then it's just that I'm saying, we have to go into this with our eyes open. I am not rejecting the proposal, I am not rejecting the rapporteur's question, but I am simply saying that it has a secondary effect and that we have to look into it openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110641	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Strøjer-Schmidt Strjer-Schmidt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110653	In SF we want to give parents the opportunity to spend more time with their children, but not as in the model presented here. We want to extend maternity leave and, in addition, we want to allow parents to go down in working hours and allow parents to take a state loan to compensate for the reduction in wages. We believe that our day offer is important. That is why we have been given an exceptionally large amount of money for several adults and for more of the employees to be trained. And in addition, we strengthen the supervision of day offers. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110726	There is a brief comment on Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110727	Thank you. Now the SF's rapporteur is talking about a state loan, that is to say, that you have to pay further in order to have the opportunity to feel in the country with the world's highest tax pressure to be allowed to go home and care for your own children. That is why I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not think that it would perhaps be better simply to ensure that families with children are allowed to keep more of their own money, so that they have just the opportunity to give priority to going home and caring for their children for the first important years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110805	Now it is often the case that you have a long working life and that you have children early in working life, so you have the opportunity to pay off the loan over many years plus that the loan we are putting up must be something that looks like a su loan, that is, with a very low interest rate. However, the money we get in by people going to work is, of course, some of the money that has paid our minimum standards, so we would rather prioritise the money in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110837	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110838	I can tell the SF's rapporteur about a great many places where it could easily be cut in the public sector where it doesn't have to be this false premise that either you give priority to financial day-care institutions, or you give priority to people being allowed to keep more of their own money so that they can go home and take care of their children. Because that is not a contradiction. There are plenty of other places where you can save easily. I just have to get a slightly clearer answer from the SF rapporteur, because what the SF rapporteur says, as I hear it, is that the Danes, who are so badly hit by taxes in advance, have to pay even more to the state in order to be allowed to take care of their children at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110915	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110916	We say that it is a very low interest rate, compared to the fact that you can then go down in time. You should have the right to go down in time, and there are some who cannot do so at this time. And so that it can be done financially to make the household hang together at home, we will give the opportunity to borrow from the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110937	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209110939	Thank you. I actually sense that we agree that there must be better opportunities to calm down in order to quote the slogan of a left-wing party for some families with children, and there is the SF's proposal so that they are owed, I would have said, that you should have the opportunity to borrow money. Could you not make a compromise saying that you are granting this tax credit, but that there is also the possibility of borrowing money? In other words, does the rapporteur not see that it is better that you finance it yourself with a tax credit than that you have to borrow money that you have to pay back later? It is far better that you do not have a debt because you may take six months extra home with the young children. Isn't that even better than SF's proposal? Maybe you could combine those two.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111027	Yeah, well... sorry, I just lost track. After all, the Liberal Alliance itself has put forward some calculations on this and, as the Minister also said, you should be commended for it, because we have had this question up three or four times in the Assembly, I think, and there has been no calculation model for it. We don't know how many people would make use of your suggestions, but if only 10%. Did it, then it's up to 1-2 billion. kr., and that's a lot of money. Well, we just want that money to be used for something other than going into the parents' own pockets.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111113	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111115	Thank you. I also sometimes lose the thread, and in time you learn to hide it; that's what happens to it. But the fact that parents are going to work less, so there will be a shortage of money in the Treasury, is also happening if you give them a loan. So the same problem also applies to SF's proposal. So I don't quite buy it. Well, the difference between SF's and LA's proposal is that the parents who choose to make use of this option do not get in debt. I'm thinking that if we agree on the target and I actually sense that a little bit we're • then I just think that the Liberal Alliance's proposal is better, that it's better with a deduction than a loan; then you don't have a debt afterwards. And perhaps you could say that those who do not have enough income for the deduction must get a loan.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111155	Thank you. Then we will have the rapporteur's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111158	In concrete terms, we believe that we should have the opportunity to reduce working hours to 30 hours a week. So in this way there is a huge difference, because we want both parents to still be away in the labour market, only less. There is a huge difference between not being in the labour market at all and being there at reduced time for up to 30 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111222	Then we say thank you to the rapporteur; there are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111241	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Liberal Alliance for putting forward this proposal which gives rise to a really good debate. I think I can almost feel as the debate has progressed, that Mrs Lone Dybkjær is sitting up in the sky raging over the fact that what we have spent decades making progress on is being bombed back, and that is precisely why we are discussing where we are going as a society, so we want to go back to home as a starting point for women, or do we want to move forward to where father and mother are equally attached to their children, and where father and mother also really have the same opportunities to make careers, earn pensions and everything else? That is basically what is at stake here. As others have said, the first 1,000 days of a child's life are absolutely crucial. For me, there is nothing more important than that children grow up and have a good childhood, where they have a safe connection with adults, where they experience that they can trust adults and the world, where there is play, where they are happy and where they are well. It's the foundation of everything else. That is why I do not think it is acceptable for us to be somewhere in Denmark where we are getting such a culture so that, as a parent, we should almost feel guilty if we have not picked up our children by 8:00 p.m. 15. Therefore, one of the most important things for me as a radical is that we have good day care institutions, where there are good opportunities for play, where there are adults enough to be present with the children in small groups, but also where the adults are skilled, are educated educators and have a look for the children who are a little on the edge of the community, so that they are helped to believe in life, and so that they can feel that they are making a difference in the community, and therefore, when it comes to what we want to spend the money on when we talk about children, what we in the Radical Left have played out with, namely that we want to put half a time above the minimum standards, because we want it to be educated educators. That's our main priority. There are many mothers today who have chosen to go home. It is not that long since I met a woman in Kolding who was moving to Haderslev, because in Haderslev you get the grant, and thus it is attractive for some families so to live in the municipality where you can, and I respect that some choose to do so. But what we are discussing today, and as others have also said, is what it is that we need the community's money for, and what it is that we want to push to • what is the direction we want as a society? And I do not think that the most important thing is that we, as a society, push for more women to go home. On the contrary, I think that we as a society should push for day-care institutions where, as parents, both mother and father, you can go to work with a good feeling in your stomach because you know that children have a good day there all day. I think, in the talk we have about freedom here today, that we lose sight of how crooked it is and what we cheat children for, if it is always to be the mother who is the primary adult, and I think we have a job to do to make sure that we create structures for our society that push the opposite development, namely that both mother and father become important adults in a child's life. That's one point. The other is this with the community and the value of meeting in the crèche or in kindergarten, and I actually think I will go home and hide everything the minister said about the importance of children playing together in the institutions, because exactly the same applies in our sfos and clubs. So I really think the Minister just gave us the best shot into that discussion. With those words, I can say that the Radical Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111716	There is a brief comment. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111721	Well, our proposal is not that there should be a tax credit for mothers. Our suggestion is that it is a tax credit for the family so that either mother or father can choose to go a little more home with the children while they are very small. I think it is an old-fashioned, clever, conservative and sexist way of thinking that the rapporteur is merely assuming that it is only women who want it. I don't think it's like that in a modern society. But I think the rapporteur heard my example earlier with my good friend Steffen and his wife Louise. And Louise is actually doing what the rapporteur wants. She does her career, she is a former consultant, she works at the Ministry of Finance today, but she would have liked to have had six months extra with the smallest at home. And if she wants to, why is that a problem for the rapporteur? She'll take care of her career afterwards. Why is that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111808-2	Louise can do that, too. I just don't think we should spend what is community money to support that development. Because it's everywhere Louiser does it. It's the mothers who do it. That is why we have a task in structural change. That is why it is so important to have some maternity leave that is for both men and women. After all, the Liberal Alliance has yet to ask itself the question: why is it that it is always the woman who does it, and what does it take to make both mother and father equally important to the child?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111848	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111849	It is not the Community's money, it is the citizens' money, and in this case it is the family that is allowed to keep a little more of their own money for more freedom. I just have to say something. Of course, the rapporteur is right to say that men and women are different, and that is why, on average, they also choose differently, and it is true that women have, I believe, the wise and right attitude • it is we men who are wrong to have the average priority for the family a little higher than their career. And the rapporteur has to explain to me why the rapporteur has so much against there being women out there who think it is more important to have more time with children than to get a high salary and a good career. What is the rapporteur's position against it? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111926	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209111927	I have a wish that we should go where Mom and Dad are equally important to the child and where the child has an equally strong connection with her mother and her father. It may happen that the woman is the primary caregiver. If it is she who has had almost the whole bar, and you are about to drive your child into a situation, and you are insecure about it because you don't think the quality is good enough, then it will be the woman who says that okay, then I'd like to be more at home instead of it being the danger. That is why we have a structural task in ensuring that Mom and Dad are close to the child and are equally connected to the child, because it is only there that it becomes a real free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112007	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112009	Now I have seen sometimes, in fact in a very short space of time, that there is an incredibly arrogant attitude on the part of the Radical Left that the Radical Left seems to be the only party that knows almost better than the parents. We're experiencing it with forced distribution in high school. There you know better too, because the way in which the Radical Left thinks it should be is how it should be. And that's exactly what we're dealing with right now. What is the problem with families setting themselves up as they would like, whether they are parents or mothers who go home with the child? This is about the child having a family that takes care of it. Why is it that the Radical Left is again standing on the platform of the Folketing and is arrogant and knowledgeable and believes that they know better than the families themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112102	But what is New Citizen's answer? What will New Citizens do to ensure that fathers are as attached to their children as mothers are and that fathers want to be at home with their children as mothers do?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112120	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112120-2	We want to ensure that the families adapt as they see fit. Because we do not have an arrogant attitude that it is politicians who know best how families should organize their lives. We don't really care if it's Dad or Mom who's going home with the baby. We want to ensure that you have the opportunity to go home and look after your child and do the best for your child in the situation you are in. So, no, we are not going to stand here and say that the state or Radical Left or any other politician should decide how the families behave. Surely it is an incredibly arrogant attitude to think that you know better than the families themselves know.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112154	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112155	But listen, you New Citizens: As a society, we have spent decade after decade creating equality, creating opportunities and now you are rolling it all back, and you basically want to go back to the time when women just went home. I do not understand it, because I think that, as a family, you can adapt to it if you want to. What we are discussing here today is what it is we are going to do as a community; what it is we are going to spend our common money on; what it is that development we are going to push for. I think it would be so good if it were the case that children in Denmark grew up with that mother and father were equally important.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112237	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112239	The Radical Left sometimes calls itself a social liberal party. To be liberal, also to be social liberal, is to be concerned that people are free to live the life they want, and then you accept that people are not the same and will thus live different lives. For different people, when they are free, different lives choose. Can the Radical Left not accept that there is a difference between people when they become parents and that it is sometimes the mothers who want one and the fathers who want the other? It sounds as if the Radical Left thinks that a family is only good if Mom and Dad are the same and want the same thing, fills the same and does the same with the children, even though we, who are parents, are 100% aware that families consist of two adult people and that these two adult people fill each their roles in the family, which can be different, also depending on gender.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112341	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112342	I fully agree with the latter, but it has nothing to do with freedom if it is totally wrong. Well, then it's just conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112353	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112355	Well, it has now. Well, it's totally wrong that there are some people in this society who care about you, and then there are some other people who care about something else. It is true in all of life's relationships, and it is also true in family life, that one parent is very concerned about being present for afternoon tea and ginger cookies with children, while the other parent is very concerned about being present for the weekend when you go to football. I also believe that the Radical Left should accept the difference and the freedom to cultivate that difference if the Radical Left continues to call itself a liberal party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112434	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112435	I certainly pay tribute to the difference. You can do it in different ways. What is the problem is, if it is completely wrong, that because the woman may have taken the whole bar and is the primary associate, she is also the one who per. I would rather stay at home for some time now, because we do not think that the day-care institution is good enough. Well, then, it's not a free choice. Real freedom comes only when there is freedom, and not if there is a structure that makes it always the woman who goes home. I think that the Liberal Alliance should provide an answer to how we can get to where there will be real freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank you. After a bit of despriting, it's sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112539	Thank you. The proposal here from the Liberal Alliance is probably far from Enhedslisten's wishes for how we organize our daily offers and conditions for families with children. Having said that, I would like to say that there are parts of the intention that I share. There are a lot of families with children who want to spend more time with their children, but it is a stressful life that children's families live, and I think it is both legitimate and sensible to want to spend more time with their children. It must be the individual who decides. so we are keen supporters of looking at improved maternity leave arrangements, improved parental leave arrangements and other ways of facilitating the lives of children's families so that they can spend more time with their children. We do not really like this model, as the Liberal Alliance points out, but in addition, it is also about some social priorities that several rapporteurs have mentioned, and there is a balance between how we spend Community money. I am in favour of the Community's money being accumulated by paying taxes, but whether we do it one way or the other, it is the money that we as a whole, as citizens of society, intend to spend on welfare, which we are talking about prioritising, and that is where we do not agree with the priorities that lie. One can, of course, try to talk oneself apart, but I should like to contribute to the fact that here we are talking a little bit closer to each other, because the intention that may lie in creating better conditions for families with children to be with their children is shared, as I have said, even though we cannot support the model here. As far as private care is concerned, we do not want to increase their use. We are not enthusiastic about the private services. It is an offer and, if you look at the daily offer law around § 86 or 87, you can see that it is not a daily offer in the sense of the daily offer law, which means that it should not meet exactly the same quality requirements as day care institutions should and that local day care should be provided for that matter as private day care providers should. That is why we do not think it is very sensible for us to encourage someone to make care arrangements that have a lower quality than the quality standards we have jointly created in the legislation. So we are not in favour of that. Finally, there is the deregulation of the area. Yes, one could vote in favour of it and say that we regard it as very good that we do not manage time away and things like that. I do not think any of us are very much in favour of this. As I read the deregulation here, it is, in fact, creating a day-off area that is more based on competition between different types of institutions instead of a cooperative structure which has been good in this area for many years, where there was a close interaction between the private self-owned institutions and the municipal authorities. We are in favour of the latter. And if that is a proper understanding of it, then we are not in favour of deregulation of the area either. So, all in all, we cannot support the proposal of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112944	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209112946	Thank you. I would just like to start by saying that the rapporteur is not prejudiced. It is a fairly correct understanding that we want more fair and equal competition. And I think that when I go to the platform myself, I can give some concrete examples of some biases... there are several people in the Chamber who have asked about it. But what I'm gonna ask about now is that I'm the one who's lost the thread... is compared to the fact that private carers don't have the same quality. For example, it could be a grandmother, as we have also proposed, who cares for the child for a period of time, rather than sending it to day care institutions. And it is true that the grandmother may not be a trained educator, but she is full of love for the child. And with the same logic one could say in relation to the parents the first year they are at home on maternity leave that they are not trained educators they do not have educational standards and that it is actually bad for the children. Would the rapporteur not agree that it might be as good for a child to have six months with grandpa or grandmother than it is necessarily to come to someone who has taken a certain educational education?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113049	Yeah, you can have that thought, and I'm not gonna be judging it. I just think that when we, as a community, have to give priority to how we use the funds, I do not think that we should pay people for their children to be cared for by their grandmother. And I don't mind children being cared for by their grandmother... I think it's excellent. My own children's grandmothers, I would confidently trust to be with the children. But I do not think it is a Community matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113123	Thank you. There are no more comments. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113145	Thank you, President. Thanks to the Liberal Alliance for raising this important debate and putting greater emphasis on freedom for Danish families. In the Conservative People's Party, we wholeheartedly support the intention of this resolution. With the current government, we need to talk more than ever about the fundamental necessity of freedom for Danish families, including the maximum freedom of choice for Danish families. For example, we have prioritised a homecare grant to address the negative consequences of the earmarked maternity agreement. We have fought and will fight against the government's crusade against the private initiative in the provision of welfare services. I am glad that we can go along with the proposers. The fact that we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution is partly due to the fact that there is far too much uncertainty about the cost of the proposed tax credit. As the authors themselves mention, it is difficult to know how many will use such a system. However, we wholeheartedly support the proposal for more freedom for families and ensuring private initiative in the field of welfare. I look forward to further discussions with the proposers on that agenda, and I know that there will be a great battle when the government continues its crusade against the private initiative, which will de facto close private day institutions. That is deeply worrying. We, the Conservatives, would very much like to make a report together with the proposers, in which we will just be focusing on more freedom for families to adapt their daily lives themselves. This was suggested earlier by the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party when she spoke. We would very much like to support that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113402	There are a few comments. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113406	Well, let's work on that report and thank you for the support for the intentions. I just want to make sure that I understood correctly why Conservatives are voting against this proposal. As I hear the rapporteur, we actually agree with everything and we think it is very good and we would like the Danes to take advantage of this tax credit if they want to. But the reason why you vote against a policy that you agree with is that we cannot guess whether or not we can calculate how many people will make use of the offer that we apparently agree on. All I have to do is say that's why you vote no. I need to understand the reason better, because I think that is a rather strange reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113452	But as the authors themselves write in the motion for a resolution, it is uncertain how many people will take advantage of this offer. Therefore, there is some uncertainty about the calculation of it and the financial cost. We are very much in agreement with the intention, which is why we would very much like to be involved in drawing up a joint report with the authors of the motion for a resolution, precisely because it is a very important agenda that there should be more freedom for families to organise their own everyday life. But it is also important to be a financially responsible party and we must also ensure that there is money for this. The proposers refer, inter alia, to: to the graduation, which is also part of our financial act. So it is clear that there has to be funds allocated to this. However, we would very much like to have a discussion with the authors of the motion for a resolution on a joint report.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113554	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113559	Thank you so much. I understand that the Conservative People's Party has unfortunately gone a little away from being the party of families, but that role is very much taken up by New Citizens, so it is super fine. I cannot quite understand the argument as to why the Conservative People's Party is voting against this proposal, because when we tabled a proposal which was very similar to this one, there were some specific points that the Conservative People's Party and the then rapporteur put forward to vote against. All these points have been taken into account in this proposal, and now you are inventing a new reason why you do not want families to be allowed to have the financial opportunities to take care of children at home for the first important years. Can the Conservative People's Party not see that it seems a little odd and sounds a little hollow, that one says that one kind of agrees with the premise behind this proposal, but keeps inventing new arguments for why one votes against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113653	Now it is the case that when you are a financially responsible party, you also have to be in control of what the cost will be of some spending proposal and how it will be financed. We are about some of the families' parties and, as I also mentioned, we ourselves have in our financial legislation a subsidy for home-care, which must just go in to deal with the negative consequences of the maternity agreement. And we wholeheartedly support the intention of this proposal. It is also just important that the economy is in place, and it may not be that important for New Citizens, but it is for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113734	Well, then, I am sorry to say that I believe that the Conservative People's Party and the rapporteur have not been properly read on this proposal because the economy is in place. One has a fairly good estimate of how many people are using these offers today, but one cannot, of course, know with a hundred percent certainty how many will then take advantage of the future. That's logic for caged hens. But I just did not really get an answer to the question that I actually asked: why is it that the Conservative People's Party is so opposed to voting in favour of a good, bourgeois proposal like this, that you simply keep inventing new arguments? For the arguments put forward last time have been met in this proposal, but now there are other arguments for it. On the other hand, I would also like to know whether the Conservative People's Party believes that it is better to grant a subsidy than to grant an employment allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113822	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113823	I can only repeat what I said: it is important that there is funding when you make proposals that there is funding for it. We have come from Conservatives ourselves with a financial bill that has been financed crown-to- kroner. This is what the proposers themselves write that there is some uncertainty about, because you don't know how many people will take advantage of it. So what the rapporteur says is not correct. After all, there is no provision for funding, because you do not really know exactly what this is going to cost. But frankly, I do not think we should talk away from each other, because I assume that we agree with the intention of this motion for a resolution, and that is why I think, as I say to the authors of the motion, that we should draw up a joint report on this proposal which we wholeheartedly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113913	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113915	I just need to ask the Conservative rapporteur something. When the Folketing adopts some new scheme, a new tax rebate, a housing job scheme or the like, is there always a guarantee of how many people will avail themselves of the scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209113936	No, there is usually a calculation of how many people are supposed to take advantage of such a scheme and how it is to be financed. And now it is the case that we, the Conservatives, have come up with a financial legislative proposal ourselves, and what the proposers refer to in the proposal is, among other things, one of them. The graduation rate, and the graduation rate, are also part of our financial act. So we also have to make sure that when we come up with a proposal, the funding is in order, right? You can't spend the same money several times. But we wholeheartedly support the intention of this proposal, and that is why I say that we would very much like to draw up a joint report with the proposers. Because we agree entirely on the intention of more freedom for the Danish families to organise their everyday life as they would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114030	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114032	I understand that if the Conservative People's Party would rather spend that money from savings on the graduating rate to something else, then the Conservative People's Party cannot also spend the money here. It is then a priority of the Conservative People's Party that you would rather spend that money on something else. But the argument that there is uncertainty about how many will use it can be used against any new scheme adopted by the Folketing, because there is never any certainty as to how many will use it. One tries to estimate the best possible guess, and then one has suffered a buffer in the public budgets, so that, if there are more who apply for it, one can also finance it. And that is also the case with this proposal. But of course it is a choice if the Conservative People's Party gives priority to other purposes than this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114118	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114119	Well, we have, among other things. Priority grants for home care, which are just helping to deal with the negative consequences of this maternity agreement. So we are really prioritising exactly what I hear the proposers are doing, namely more freedom for the Danish families of children. We agree on this, so let us have a joint report on it, because we agree on the intention to give families greater freedom of choice in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114150	Thank you. Then there are no more comments, and that is why it is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114201	Thank you so much. In 2018, the research institute Wilke conducted a study that showed that mothers in particular suffer from a guilty conscience over not having enough time with their children. I'm a mother myself. I know that feeling. And we also know that the first 1,000 days of a child's life are the most important, and that is why we in New Citizens want a family policy that puts the well-being of children first. And that requires parents to have some real choices in everyday life. The welfare state and the high tax burden standardise family life and make everyday life tailored to the individual family impossible. Therefore, we will allow families to take care of their children at home when they are in the crèche age. For the current tax burden makes it difficult for ordinary families to live on one income. This prevents families from caring for their children at home. Families are therefore forced to send their children into an institution so that both parents can be on the labour market. It shouldn't be like that. This is not the most important thing when you have small children, and therefore we would like to help support that parents can spend more time concentrating on their children when they are least and most vulnerable. The way in which it is made easier is precisely by granting an employment allowance just like the proposal we are discussing today. If a parent wants to take care of the child at home, the spouse or partner gets a tax discount, and with this very suggestion the families get DKK 10,800. a month plus the self-payment they save in the day care center. And it is simply a fine bourgeois cheek egg that allows families to take care of their children at home, relieves the tax burden and lowers public spending without making anyone worse. It's a good bourgeois family policy. In addition, you want to deregulate the day-off area so that it becomes easier to create free-cub rooms and private nurseries and kindergartens, and it is also a very good idea. In New Citizens, we want the money to follow the individual child one to one, so that you can choose for yourself exactly what you think is best for your child, and we want there to be greater offers and more private offers. It's just common sense. Studies show time and again that both parents' and employees' satisfaction is higher in private care provision. It is probably not surprising to most of you that, of course, we in the New Citizens' Party support this excellent resolution, as it is simply impossible as a citizen to disagree that this is the right way to go. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114501	Thank you. There are no comments. Yes, sir. Someone just came from sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen. Was it just a mistake or what? No, okay. One should just be kind enough to press in so that I can follow up here and let you know before the rapporteur goes down again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114526	In my rapporteur's speech, I also tried to address this issue of foreigners, i.e. the risk of what I called ghettoisation, but also the potential risk that this proposal could, if not abused, be used inappropriately in relation to the Eastern European labour force that we have in Denmark. The rapporteur did not mention this in his rapporteur's speech. Was it because the rapporteur has more knowledge than I do that it is not a problem, or is it chosen to ignore it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114610	No, it is because I have read the motion for a resolution and it has actually been taken into account, both in terms of Danish knowledge and in terms of having been in the country for a certain period of time and so on. So it's kind of alone for that reason, that is, that there are
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114622	Now there are no more comments. We're gonna skip a little bit, for Mr. Knox. Sikandar Siddique is not here, and Mr. Jens Rohde has resigned because of illness. So that is why it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Seligman. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209114639	Thank you. Liberal Alliance is Denmark's family party. We are because we are bourgeois-liberals, and we want to give the Danish families more freedom and more responsibility to create the good family life with better opportunities to be with their children while they are small, if the parents so wish, and better opportunities to choose the care for their children that the family finds best. The good family life and the good children's life have many forms, but it is a bit as if the only form in Denmark that really fits into the social democratic box is one where the family is one with which you spend the most time together this weekend. Because in everyday life the children in the institution are as long as possible, preferably in a municipal, because adults have to work as much as possible, so that as many tax dollars are placed in the treasury as possible, so we can afford to hire even more educators, and that is paradoxical. We have a high tax burden, and we have a large state because we want to support the communities. At least that's usually the explanation. But in this case, the big state and the high tax burden are something that weakens the community and weakens the families. For the vast majority of families without a sky high income, it is difficult to make everyday life work together financially if both adults do not work full time, and that is probably the primary reason why Danish children have a European record in being the longest time in day care, because you have to be incredibly wealthy to get out of the Social Democratic hamster wheel. Now we've made this little motion for a resolution which should make things a little easier. We want to give families more freedom and responsibility if they want to take care of their young children themselves for a period of time, even if they want to get someone else to do it at home, or if they want to look at other day-to-day services than municipal ones, and thus even help local fiery souls to start new private childcare initiatives, and that part is also important. It is important that there are welfare offers, which do not originate from the municipality, that there is an alternative, and we must always do what we can to become easier to create and operate and maintain in Denmark and also choose as a family. We have called our little play "Freedom" to the most important thing, for it is one of the most important things in life. Our children, our family are the main community in society and for the vast majority of us the most meaningful community we have in our lives. I think I have spoken earlier here on the platform about the fact that we Danes are paying our taxes with the most precious thing we have, namely our time. The time we spend working to pay taxes is, after all, at the expense of family time, to the community, or whatever else may be of communities that you want to spend time on, and in this way you sometimes risk, by the state becoming large, by weakening communities. After all, we live in an interesting time and also in a time when it is beginning to dawn on a great many people that there is something that we have lost. It's not material. We have never been richer than we are now, we have never been as prosperous as we are today, we have never had as much public welfare as we have today, but satisfaction has not quite followed. Unfortunately, our young people find it harder to bear the burdens of life, even if they are objectively lighter than ever before, and both young and old feel more lonely than before, some feel more and more stressed, and we are here in the middle of the hall. We are not old or old, and I would also like to say that we are not very young either, and most of us are also parents, and I think many parents have experienced, among other things. During the corona rendition, it meant a great deal to them to have a little extra time and presence with their children, and at the same time we have also seen a number of examples of day care institutions where you get the impression that the educators do not have enough time and presence with the children. Therefore, more and more people are beginning to ask themselves whether it would make sense in their lives if they had a little more time with their children, and whether it would not really be the best for them, and I think I used the example earlier with Steffen and Louise, both of whom are career people, but where Louise would have liked to have had six months extra with the children at home. It was the good life for them, but it was difficult financially. After all, it has become popular to advocate that there should now be tranquillity, I think there is a party that has it as a slogan, we should step out of the hamster wheel, we should do something useless, we should focus on the meaningful, and I kind of agree, and I think a lot of us would benefit from it. Now I am not a socialist, so I cannot come down from the mountain with stone tablets and with ten offers of the good life, what I bring is freedom, it is responsibility, and that is the opportunity to commit to good family life. It cannot be arranged on the basis of the state, but it must be arranged on the family's own terms. It is the families themselves who best know how to get the good children's life and the good family life, and that is the reason why this resolution has been made, and since we made it, there has also been some forced distribution of maternity leave by the Folketing, and the advance is something of equality. But the result is once again that the family loses freedom of choice and influence for politicians, and we simply need to protect families from us, from politicians who will always regulate society down to the smallest detail. That is why we have tabled this resolution and, as I said, it consists of three elements. One is to introduce a tax credit on the care of your own child. Families who want to take care of their own children at home must be able to obtain a deduction of DKr 130,000. per In addition to the cost of the day-care institution, it is intended to replace the current possibilities of obtaining grants in the various municipalities, which are both cumbersome and bureaucratic and unequal across all the municipalities. In order to ensure that the deduction is targeted at people in work and does not contribute to ghettoisation, a wide range of requirements must be met. Among other things, you have to... have been in Denmark for 7 out of the last 8 years, one must not have received public transfers for a period of time, and one must have sufficient Danish knowledge. So we have actually tried to meet the challenge that Marie Krarup previously addressed. The second suggestion is that the money should follow the child. Families who want to use a private child care provider, and it could also be a family member, a grandmother or an uncle, must have the freedom to do so. The cost that the municipality would otherwise have had in an institutional place can then remain in the family and be spent on a child care provider. It is not intended to be another social benefit, and therefore there must also be a requirement for parents to be at work. The third is that we want not only to make it easier to care for children at home, but also to strengthen the choice among the day offers. We would like to deregulate or deregulate the day-to-day supply area so that it is easier to set up free and private day-to-day institutions. Today, a lot of people find that they are opposed by the municipality, and there is also such a different practice in the municipalities, so it is hard to say that this is the piece of the law that needs to be changed. However, there are many examples of private day care institutions feeling counter-worked and discriminated against, that there are different interpretations of the rules in the municipalities, so you make demands on the private kindergartens that you do not make to the public, or that you do not give the same opportunities, for example. building grants or operating grants to support teachers, even if they are required to receive children with special difficulties. In Køge Municipality, private day care institutions are required to be open at least 52 hours a week, while existing public day care institutions do not meet the same requirements. These are anecdotal stories, but it requires a simple google search, and then you can see that in different municipalities there is a practice in which too much work is done against private day care institutions. But these proposals are for us to see to it that families are given more freedom to the most important thing, and that is not because it is a revolution in itself. But it would be revolutionary if we, on the part of the Danish Parliament, went the opposite way to what we used to do, namely to give more freedom to families and to a lesser extent dictate how they should live their lives, and that is actually why I believe that the Liberal Alliance is Denmark's family party. I think those were the words. I look forward to the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115453	Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115456	Yeah, thanks for that. There are many headlines here, including some with buzzwords that you would like to look up on. But I would like to ask you something concrete. Now I found on the website of the City of Copenhagen that the grant for private care is such that when parents pay approx. 2,200 DKK, the City of Copenhagen pays approximately triple to the private. So what exactly is stated in paragraph 2 of the motion for a resolution, which does not actually exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115526-2	This subsidy scheme only exists in some municipalities. So this is actually standardising the offer to all families and ensuring that it can also apply to family members and the like. As I understand it, this is not the case today, but it may be that the rapporteur can correct me. Whatever the case, there are municipalities which do not have the grant at all, and there are other municipalities where the grant is higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115552	Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115553	Thank you. Well, it's true that the municipalities have been given the freedom to fit in. I actually thought that the Liberal Alliance was in favour of this home-care thing. But now it's the password. It would be desirable for the municipalities to support this, and indeed they do. We can then have some disagreements as to whether the private pass is actually an educational offer that is good enough for us to discuss. However, we cannot discuss the fact that a Community subsidy is being granted for the choice of a private passport, because that is what it says.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115632	Yes, and our proposal is that it should also include individuals in the real sense of the word, so that it can also be a family member. This is not the case today, unless the family member is, let's say, a day care mother, that is, where it is a small arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115648	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115652	I am curious to hear whether the rapporteur asked Steffen why he did not want to take six months.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115703	I think he'd be extremely unpopular at home, that's my guess. Well, I don't care why it's not him. I'm told it's Louise who's interested in it and that they want it as a family. Then I would like to make political efforts to ensure that they have a better framework for this. I don't care if it's Steffen or Louise who wants to do it. I don't care what their chromosome composition is and what sex they have. I just want to give them more freedom to organize their lives as they please. If they choose to adjust in a way that makes Louise end up making a little less money than Steffen on the long track, then that is not a problem. This is not a social problem. This is not something we should be interfering in here in the Folketing. I think that in some parties there is such a tendency for the questioner's own questioner to be a bit of a social engineer who wants to design society. And then you want to design it in the direction of women taking less maternity leave and focusing more on career. But that can only be achieved by reducing freedom. There is no other way of achieving it that the questioner wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115808	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115809	Now the rapporteur said before that the Liberal Alliance would like to be Denmark's family party, at least Denmark's conservative family party. But if you do not intend to enter into the discussion that it is always women who will then go home, then you just come back to take the freedom that we have fought for decades after the decade. So, in this resolution, the Liberal Alliance is putting up something I think it is supposed to be about 10%. Of course, the mothers had to go home with their children. If it is reality, if it is everyday life, that so many women go home and that it becomes normal, does the rapporteur not see that freedom is taken away from what we have built?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115902	No, I can't. And let's use the example of Steffen and Louise again. If Louise gets the freedom to go six months extra at home, then you can't conclude that she's taken away freedom. It's illogical. Right now she finds that she doesn't have the freedom to goose-eyes because she does, but it's cost-effective to make the choice to take six months extra at home. I will give her the freedom to make that choice, and if she then uses her freedom to make that choice, one cannot conclude that her freedom has been taken from her. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115935	Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209115936	Thank you. We in the Danish People's Party have great sympathy for the idea that you should have more opportunity to look after your own children at home, which is why we have also recommended that you make a report. However, we are concerned that the provisions proposed in the motion for a resolution can be used in ghettoes to isolate themselves in a foreign bubble. Because even if there is a requirement that one should be able to speak Danish, one will of course not be able to demand that people speak Danish if they have their children at home and their native mother tongue is Arabic or Turkish. And that is why we have supported this idea that in ghetto areas children should be taken into an institution for a certain period of time. So the question to the rapporteur is: if a report is drawn up, could we not include a specific provision that in ghetto areas where we know that there is a high concentration of people who do not have Danish as their mother tongue, this resolution does not actually apply, so that there will not be full freedom because we know that it will lead to people wanting to isolate themselves in Arabic or Turkish or whatever non-Danish bubbles and that it is not good for children?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120047	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120048	The questioner and I fully agree that we need to set up the deduction in a way that does not contribute to further parallel societies and a lack of integration. We have tried to do this by demanding that the householder have been in ordinary work for the past 2 years out of the last 21⁄2 years, that they should be able to Danish, that they should not receive transfer income and that they should have stayed in the country for 7 out of the last 8 years. I think it is very, very few people who will be able to abuse it. If you have to choose between implementing this on the one hand, with the risk that a few people can sneak through the needle's eye and abuse it, and on the other hand make a bill saying that all people living in a particular area must not have the right to this benefit, even if it is people we do not want to hit, yes, I prefer the first. But if we have 90 seats one day, we will have to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120144	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120146	I just think that when we already have the provision that there are some special rules in this area in ghetto areas, then it could be transferred to a resolution. Because although it may be well-functioning people and there is this demand for Danish knowledge, which is a reasonable requirement, one will of course still not be able to prevent one from speaking Arabic or Turkish in the home, and I do not think one should, but one should then just make sure that those children get into a reality where Danish is spoken, otherwise they will be in a really bad situation when they go to school.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120221	Well, we share the common interest, and then we will see how we can land something together in a hopefully common blue report. Kenneth Mikkelsen, who earlier suggested that they might also be included in a story. But let us look at what we can do to cast the bullets into good bourgeois politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120239	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120251	The debate is open. It's the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120317	Thank you for that, President. This resolution, B 30, concerns municipal tax increases for 2022. The Conservative People's Party will require the government not to implement the statutory offsetting of a minor tax overrun, which is provisionally calculated on the basis of the municipalities' budgets for 2022. The Conservative People's Party tabled the same motion for a resolution last year, and it sounds as if the Conservative People's Party no longer wants a framework for the tax that the municipalities can levy on citizens and businesses. The government wants flexibility in the tax, but this must be done in a responsible manner within a defined framework. In the context of the compensatory reform, there are, for example: granted a framework for tax increases in municipalities with losses and subsidies for reductions in others, but within the condition of an overall unchanged tax. The tax framework we are now seeing has helped to reduce the difference between what citizens in different parts of the country have to pay for welfare, and we think this is positive. The tax framework agreed as part of the compensatory reform allows municipalities to adapt to the new system. This means that municipalities with losses on the compensatory reform have been given the opportunity to increase the tax as they phase in their losses. The tax increase allowed corresponds to the municipality's losses on the reform resulting from the political agreement with a broad majority behind it, not the municipalities' own alternative inventories of losses. At the same time, in order that the reform should not lead to overall tax increases, we have agreed on a similar framework for attractive subsidies for tax reductions. It is true that some municipalities have raised other issues which they considered to be loss-making, but this is not a direct consequence of the compensatory reform, and here too has been taken into account. This applies, in particular, to the deletion of the two interim two-year transitional arrangements, which were established in 2018 and expired in 2021. The transitional arrangements were based on a revised data base which has been corrected. Some municipalities had been systematically overcompensated for their expenditure needs. These transitional arrangements allowed the municipalities concerned time to adapt to new circumstances and a situation without transitional arrangements. The fact that individual municipalities have not shown due diligence and adapted to this somewhat more clearly is not due to the compensatory reform. Nevertheless, the parties behind the reform have been responsive to a desire for further flexibility in raising the tax, and on this basis a residual framework for tax increases in 2021 has been allocated to the few municipalities that have suffered greater losses both on the compensatory reform and on the expiry of the two transitional arrangements. The Ghentofte Municipality had, for example: a loss in the compensation that will be phased in by 32,8 million from 2021; kr. a year. Over 5 years, the municipality has the possibility, in view of the loss, of a total tax increase of 164 million. kr. In addition, the municipality was given a share of last year's residual framework for tax increases so that it could raise the tax by a further 138 million. kr. for 2021. The government has implemented the compensation scheme in order to correct imbalances and give municipalities more equal opportunities. This was particularly beneficial for the most vulnerable municipalities, including the outermost municipalities, and this meant that some municipalities, especially in northern Zealand, had to submit more in compensation. Many municipalities have also taken advantage of the opportunities for both tax increases and reductions subsidies agreed with the reform. It is especially municipalities with low taxes that have had to contribute more to the compensation and, as a result, have chosen to increase the tax. At the same time, it is especially municipalities with high tax rates that have taken advantage of the possibility of reducing it with subsidies, and it is especially the peripheral municipalities that have reduced the tax. This means that ordinary citizens in less well-off peripheral municipalities no longer have to pay as high a municipal tax as in the past and that citizens in perhaps more prosperous municipalities have to pay a tax that is slightly closer to the average than before. In 2020, the difference between the highest and lowest tax rates was 5 percentage points and in 2022 the difference is 3,5 percentage points. In this way, therefore, the agreement on the reform of compensation has contributed more than one way to greater equality. There is a modest tax overrun of approx. 42 million kr. in relation to the framework allocated in 2022. The fact that it is not larger is due to a great deal of work by KL and the municipalities in coordinating the budgeted taxes. It is precisely in the light of the tax framework of the countervailing agreement that no derogation has been included in the calculation of this tax overrun. Only the deviation from the economic agreement with KL for 2022 has been taken into account. It is a well-known and dramatic consequence that, according to the rules in force, a similar set-off is triggered in the block grants of the municipalities, as has been done in the past under previous governments, among others. governments of which the Conservative People's Party has been a part. The discount brings the revenues of the municipalities back to the level provided for in the agreement with KL on the municipalities' economy for 2022. A set-off therefore does not affect the consumption framework of the municipalities, for which there is full funding in the economic agreement. As a consequence, the government also intends to lower the State base tax in order to neutralise the overall tax impact. To sum up, there is no good reason to deviate from a set-off for a total municipal tax increase under the tax sanctions rules. I am therefore a little surprised, because the Conservative People's Party wants to approve an overall increase in municipal tax and that this is justified by factors already taken into account last year or based on alternative calculations made by certain municipalities. In my view, the agreement on the compensatory reform has both contributed to a more level playing field for the services of the municipalities and evened out the differences in municipal taxes paid by citizens for their welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120858	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120903	Thanks for the post. This was quite an expected rejection of our proposal, which we have tabled before and which has also been rejected before. There's one thing I'm wondering about here. The Minister says that it offers better opportunities to offset some differences and provide equal service in municipalities across the country. How is this documented? I mean, what are the differences you've wanted to make up for? The fact is that there was a compensatory reform that was based on nothing but sympathies for individual municipalities, and then it was decided to move around the money, but there has been no evidence that the municipalities that are now receiving more money need more money than the municipalities that are now going to hand in more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209120951	I think that is what I think, for example. mention of the municipal tax is a good picture of it. If you have a municipal tax at Langeland, which is more than 27 per cent, it may be that there is a challenge in relation to the funding base that you have, and it makes sense that you equalise across the municipalities and ensure that the municipalities which have major social challenges for all kinds of reasons, and which may not be as prosperous as you are north of Copenhagen, also have the opportunity to develop their territory. The fact that you put the tax down in a municipality is also something that means that there will be more local consumption, because people simply have more money in their hands. So I think it is a good indicator of it that you can actually manage to get high municipal taxes down a little, and that, in some of the places where there have been very low municipal taxes, they end up rising a little bit. I think that's a pretty good picture of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121038	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121039	This is not a very good picture of it, because what is happening is that municipalities that are compensated and hand over money to other municipalities naturally reduce the tax, because what they are offset by is their tax revenue, so it is not worth charging taxes. If you are a municipality that delivers money to other municipalities, it is not worth the money, because you are not allowed to keep very many of them. So what you do in the municipalities that are being compensated and paid to others is, of course, that you put the tax as far down as you can, and then you have user charges on as much as possible, because it simply does not pay to charge that tax. That is why there is a difference between tax in municipalities that receive money and tax in municipalities that deliver money. It cannot be used as evidence that the municipalities with high taxes need more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121124	I do not think there was any question, but the views are well known. It is, of course, a motion for a resolution which was also tabled last year. It may be that it becomes a Christmas tradition that it is tabled every year. I actually think that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Jarlov has contributed a great deal to the debate on the importance of the people's regime and the way we run it, and one could of course also consider whether it should be a regular proposal or whether we are done for this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121147	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121150	When we made the compensatory reform, one of the things that we in New Citizens played in with, and which we thought was a good idea, was to look at the costs of administration and management, i.e. how expensive a municipality is being run. And one of the elements with which we tried to play our part was that if a municipality is run more expensive than similar municipalities, that is, with the same cost requirements, etc., it was not reasonable that the municipalities that were run cheaper should give more money to the municipality that was run more expensive. But the government wouldn't support that. What is the reason why you don't think it's a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121232	But basically, I think that if we balance out between municipalities, it is important that we have very fixed parameters for what is being compensated for. And that is why it can be said that if it is made up in different accounts, for example. As far as administration is concerned, it is likely that a budgetary exercise will be carried out which will enable you, where you may have a large budget for the administration, to press it down by putting the expenditure elsewhere or by moving around where you are managing from. So, if you have, let's say a large administration inside the municipality in the school area, then you can make that administration less by perhaps moving it out to schools and putting a larger part of the job out there. The more concrete you go down in the individual budget lines, the more you can plan for equalisation, as we have also seen in other areas. And then I think it is just important to stick to the fact that we have municipal autonomy, and there needs to be a certain space to ensure that local people too are given priority, as they would like. I do not understand if people want to prioritise administration over, for example. elderly care or schools. I think this is a very poor priority, but I also recognise that in some places in the country where priority has been chosen, that is to say, to employ communication staff instead of sosu assistants, and that is part of municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121342	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121343	Yes, and that is precisely why I said administration and management, not central administration and management, because then you can move it between decentralized and central. There are municipalities doing that according to their needs, so I fully acknowledge that. That is why I said administrative and management costs. This is something the municipalities have agreed to have a common definition for. Hundreds, in fact millions, of kroner have even been spent on a system that should be able to compare it here in the municipalities. And it can be said that if the municipalities are not willing to compare their data, then they should not use the money for a system that can compare data. So it's quite real that you go in and look at this, just like you go in and look at all sorts of other places, which are also assigned something in the compensation reform. Then there are also other parameters that the municipalities can turn on to look different than what they do. I would ask you to consider the principle that municipalities which are run cheaper should hand over money to municipalities which are run more expensive. Does the government think this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121434	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121437	No, I don't think that's a good idea as a starting point. I think that all municipalities should do everything they can to reduce administrative costs and ensure that they get out there where they're supposed to be, indeed in the front line. But there is a fluid transition between administration and operation. So, you can have HK secretaries who both support the school teachers in their teaching work and also support the management that is, whether it sits at the specific school or sits at the city hall. So what challenges me to the point of view, which I understand perfectly well, is that the more you give the opportunity to plan after adjusting your budgets in a certain way and then get a higher grant, the more that will happen, of course. Because there are many municipalities that are under pressure financially, and if you can get a profit in that way, then of course you pull it home, just as we have seen that you have done it in a large number of other areas. I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121524	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we are starting with the rapporteur's series. Mrs. Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121537	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for presenting this proposal. Let me repeat: it was a happy day when, across this hall in May 2020, we were able to reach an agreement on a new equalisation system. Once again, I would like to thank the Left, the Radical Left, the SF and the Alternative for helping to reach an agreement on the reform of the equalisation system; a system which ensures a better balance for Denmark. Local authorities across the country can now, independently of party color and political government, look into a more robust and simple equalisation system that provides stability and predictability. One of the elements of the reform is to move money from more well-off municipalities to a number of municipalities that are less well-off and more challenged. The agreement increases the contribution of the most well-off municipalities, so municipalities with the greatest challenges will get more money to solve social problems, for example. The compensatory reform must basically offset the main differences in income base and expenditure requirements. The compensatory reform has meant that some municipalities have increased the tax and others have reduced the tax. We all know in this Chamber that there is one overall framework for tax relief and increases, and that framework must be respected. It had to do so before the compensatory reform, and it has to do so after the compensatory reform. The proposal from the Conservative People's Party we are debating here proposes that it should not impose a sanction on the state if, as a result of the compensatory reform, the municipalities choose to increase the tax beyond the prescribed framework. I am surprised this year, as I did last year when the Conservative People's Party put forward this proposal, that the Conservative People's Party actually mentions two temporary compensation schemes introduced by the VLAK government with an expiry date. So let me be clear: it is possible for municipalities to raise taxes without being punished. It is only if a municipality chooses to go beyond the fixed framework that there will be a set-off in the block grant. With regard to the fixed-term compensation schemes, it is therefore very, very courageous of a municipality to recognise a factor which has always had an end date and which has not at any time been intended as something that should continue. I do not think we can accept that under any circumstances. The proposal also mentions losses on changing population decline criteria. The population decline criterion is calculated on the basis of a 3-year average, as this method is estimated to give a much more accurate picture. That the Conservative People's Party has involved this may also be surprising. In other words, the objective of the criterion is to ensure that peripheral municipalities with structural challenges can be accommodated. Although I almost cannot believe it as I did last year, when a similar proposal came from the Conservative People's Party, it could not believe it either, it could therefore look as if this motion for a resolution intends to accommodate individual municipalities, but it is not at all certain that I see it right. If the Conservative proposal were to be implemented, it would mean that money would have to be taken out of the Community's coffers and given to a municipality which, because of their printing base, would have to contribute to the community. So, as I said last year: from the point of view of the Social Democrats, we must say "no' to the proposal. We cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121858	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121900	Yes, it is quite true that the proposal is intended to help some municipalities. Otherwise, there is no real reason to put it forward if it does not benefit some municipalities. So that's absolutely right. Birgitte Vind says that equalisation must bring Denmark more balance. How did this happen? How has Denmark got more in balance by making the compensatory reform, where the social democratic municipalities and the Left Communes have generally received more money, and the municipalities that had conservative mayors have generally received less money? How has this created a better balance? How has it been documented that the municipalities, primarily social democratic, which are now receiving more money, need them more than the municipalities that have to hand in money? The thing is, there's no record of it. It's just something you've decided, because you've thought that where you're elected, you'd like to give some more money to the mayors who're in your own party. But there is no factual justification for the redistribution that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209121959	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122000	That is certainly a point of view which I do not share. The reason for this is very much that we want a greater balance between the municipalities, because we know very well that there are municipalities that are more challenged and have found it harder to make things relate to their income base. So I'm thinking there's not much to discuss here from my chair. I would like to say that I think it is a very, very solidarityal reform that we have had made, which takes account of the municipalities that face the greatest challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122029	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122035	Well, you can't just answer that: I don't agree with that. I ask what evidence is there that the municipalities that are now receiving more money need them more. And Birgitte says Wind: I do not agree with that. What's the evidence? What professional basis was there for the municipalities, primarily social democratic, which have now been chosen to give more money, to need them more than those who have to hand in the money? What is the professional basis for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122057	Here you go, Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122058	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, like me, knows that some of the factors underlying the calculation of the compensatory reform are precisely that we have population groups which may not be able to contribute much to the community as other groups can. This is quite factual, and it is an objective reason that we have municipalities which have a different population composition, which means that the income base is lower. And with this compensatory reform, it's being taken care of. I think that is very factual.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122127	Thank you. No one else wishes to speak to Mrs Birgitte Vind. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122141	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Conservatives for resubmitting this motion for a resolution on the exemption of municipalities from tax sanctions in the context of the compensatory reform. Last spring, a broad majority in this Parliament, despite long and really difficult wrangling, managed to reach an agreement on the compensatory reform. I think that we can all agree in here that, regardless of how a compensation agreement is fixed, there will always be some municipalities who might think they should have had something more, or for that matter other municipalities who think they should have delivered something less. After all, there are a great many municipalities that are somehow looking towards how to bring together such a compensatory reform, and I recognise that it can be difficult to find a balance, but I must also say that we in the Left fought the battle in the negotiating room, and we are very pleased with the result. Indeed, the tax framework that we agreed as part of the compensatory reform allows municipalities to adapt to the new system. Therefore, there is already an opportunity for municipalities, with losses in the compensatory reform, to increase their tax burden as they phase in their losses. Last year, in December, when we discussed a similar proposal from the Conservative People's Party, we presented the fence posts that we brought into the negotiating room, but for the sake of good order I would like to repeat them here today. Firstly, we wanted the government's tax span to be transformed into a total municipal tax freeze. Secondly, it was crucial that there should be no insecurity about the local economy, and that is why we also ensured that the funding grant of 3.5 billion was made available. kr. became permanent. Thirdly, we would have a fight with the overpayment of foreigners. And, yes, we had our wishes met, and that is what enabled us to support the reform as well. We therefore continue to believe that we have an agreement which we can clearly achieve and which has also helped to ensure a better equalisation system. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122423	That's it. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122426	This is one of the areas where we Conservatives have to criticise the Left. We agree on many things, but in this area I have to say that the Left made a compensatory reform which we think is really, really bad and very, very unfair, because it is based on nothing but that the Social Democracy and the Left got together and agreed that the municipalities that generally had a Left Mayor or a Social Democratic Mayor should have more money and the municipalities that had a Conservative Mayor should have less money. There is no reasonable reason for that. It is majority styranni when it is ugly that you simply take money from people without there being any professional evidence for it. Make it somewhat impression on the Left that in the municipal elections there has generally been a decline in very many municipalities and has lost the mayor's post in a place such as in the city hall. Rudersdal, where the citizens have responded to this compensatory reform against the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122529	I have to start by saying that I completely disagree with what the Conservatives' rapporteur says. I sat at all the negotiating meetings and it was not on the basis of how we secured the mayors of the Left in the best way possible. No, it was to get a proper and more robust compensatory reform done. And then I have to say that some of the things we had fought in place were precisely that it did not turn into a huge tax spank, but a tax stop. I really think that the Conservatives should therefore perhaps thank the Left for the fact that we fought that battle in the room.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122608	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122609	I find it very difficult to see how I could thank the Left for a compensatory reform which is bad and which would not have happened if the Left had not voted in favour of it. If the Left had said no, it would not have been implemented. That is why it is the fault of the Left that it has been implemented. It is not the fault of the Left that it did not become as bad as it would have been if the Social Democrats had done it alone. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that, as I said, there was a very high predominance of municipalities led by the Left and the Social Democratic Party, which benefited from this compensatory reform, while almost all Conservative municipalities came out of the reform worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122648	I can confirm that, as it may have always been in the context of a compensation reform, it has been the well-off municipalities that have handed over money to the less well-off municipalities. This is also the case in this reform agreement. And, yes, then I can say that fortunately some of the Conservative mayors thanked me and, for that matter, were at a meeting in my office during the negotiations. And I think that perhaps the Conservative rapporteur too should go as far as to thank the Left for staying in the room.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122722	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122726	Before this compensatory reform was made, there was also compensation based on the fact that municipalities with many wealthy citizens and many companies had to pay into the treasury, which then gave money to other municipalities, which had fewer wealthy citizens and fewer companies. We could meet again tomorrow and see that there are some municipalities that are richer than others, and then you can make a compensatory reform once more, where you take more from some municipalities and give to others. Will there ever be a time when the Left thinks that we now have a fair balance in Denmark? Or will it be the case that every time a government says that it should take something more from some municipalities and give to some others, the Left will always think that it can be done, because there are many Left Communes who are getting money out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122815	Well, I can go so far as to reveal that it was the Left who put his heels in relation to how much was to be taken. That is also why, as I say in my rapporteur's speech, we made sure that it did not become a huge tax spank, because if you had just nodded yes to the government's proposal at the beginning, I think it would have been a huge, huge problem. But fortunately, we got that right.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122840	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122842	No, it's not like that. It is the case that if the Left had not participated in this compensatory reform, it would not have happened because the Socialist Government would and could not carry out a compensatory reform with the Red parties alone. So the participation of the Left in this has helped to ensure that there is increased redistribution on the basis of a redistribution that is already there. My question is this: how many times will the Left help to increase the redistribution between municipalities? Is there going to be a time when the redistribution is enough? Or is the Left going to stand up every time you want to increase the redistribution between municipalities in a red way?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209122922	I think I feel like probably many people in this Chamber that I think it is extremely important that there is security around the economy of the municipalities. That is why I think that the next time you think that you have to look at this, we are willing to stand up and take the fight again. I do not think one can afford to say that one is now just staying out of it; now one does not care about how things are going with the municipalities. I can only say hello to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that it would have looked awful if it had been a totally red majority that had carried out a reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123000	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123004	If it is a question of ensuring that there is the same possibility of basic core welfare for Mrs Jensen in Hirtshals as there is in Horsens, as there is in Herlev, then we think in New Citizens, and that is a good idea. That is why we have a principle that the money must follow the citizen so that the same amount of money goes to the different places. Then we make sure that the money is there to make good, basic core welfare. Would the Left be interested in setting up such a scheme, because it would stop this whole speculation, in relation to whether you care for the individual municipality, according to what mayors they had? It would then instead be about what it should do, that is to say, the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123050	Well, I can say to the New Citizens' rapporteur that for almost 19 years I myself have worked in a municipal administration before I became a politician. And I can say that the municipalities are very, very different, and I think the New Citizens' rapporteur is also aware of this. Either way, I think that diversity should also be allowed to be there, but I am quite sure that we in the Left would like to go in and discuss whether there are places where the money could better follow the citizens. For that is one of the things we also love in terms of safeguarding citizens' freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123129	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123132	Thank you, I have spent 4 years in Aarhus City Council and worked for Aarhus Municipality for a number of years. I know there are differences between municipalities. What this is all about for us is securing a bottom and ensuring an equal opportunity for that money to go out to this care center. Then it may be that there are municipalities that would like to do something extra to ensure that we get that diversity. I do not think that there should be uniformity throughout the country, but there may well be municipalities that want to do something extra. In order to ensure that there is a bottom in these basic core welfare services across the country, you could just do it by letting the money follow the citizen, so the municipality says that this is the bottom level that you have to be able to deliver on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123209	I think it is a beautiful idea, that is to say the fact that you should of course have the opportunity to do something extra. That is what we are doing today in various places. That is actually the right to say that the various town councils around the municipalities have, namely to say that where should we focus and where might we want to do something extra? Whether or not there is any possibility of laying some kind of bottom so that the municipalities could be better secured, I find that difficult to see through. But New Citizens are welcome to come up with some paper on what it might look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123246	Thank you. There are no more comments. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123300	Thank you. Robust and predictable system is being said, both from the Social Democrats and from the Left, and I do not know whether I would call it the compensatory reform that existed. If you look at the progress of the municipal budgets over the summer and autumn of this year, it shows a very clear history of a compensatory reform that is poorly designed. I myself live in one of the challenged municipalities, Assens on Funen, and after all we got a little out of the compensatory reform, but nothing to the extent that we are really able to lift our service level away from scratch. At the same time, after we had made a budget agreement with quite small improvements to service levels, we were forced to cut budgets because the overall level of expenditure for the municipalities under one had been exceeded. We had to cut 8 million. kr. in the budget, and this has to be seen in the light of the fact that we had a room in the budget to increase the service by 10 million. kr., so it took virtually all the improvement that we thought we had got out of the compensatory reform. Then it is difficult for me to see that there are municipalities which require compensation for losses in the context of the compensatory reform, because it is probably like the purpose of making an equalisation, of offsetting the amounts and of distributing the money in a different way than they were allocated. If we look at the regions, is it true that the regions cannot levy taxes, and why was it that they did so? This was done precisely because it was said that there should be equal access to health everywhere. Whether you live in North Jutland or Region Sjælland or elsewhere, it is the actual performance and the specific needs you are looking at. In the Danish People's Party we would have liked to have seen a system in the municipalities that corresponded to that in the regions, so as not to collect tax in the individual municipality, but to collect a tax at national level and to distribute resources according to the needs of the individual municipalities. And that is also one of the reasons why we are not part of the compensatory reform. Right now we have a system in which KL makes an agreement annually with the government on how the money is to be spent and how much money can be spent, and on the basis of what has been going on this summer, it seems to me that there is a very obvious need to look at the system, precisely on the basis of that experience. For there we ended up in a situation where KL was responsible for distributing a framework in which, on the one hand, expectations had been created in very many municipalities, which had gained more funding from the compensatory reform, to increase the service and thus actually meet the responsibilities of their citizens. On the other hand, there were municipalities which had taken some money into this distribution, but which, because they could raise taxes and so on, actually had money on the book and wanted to maintain the level of service they had. This led to the situation in KL where municipalities had to be forced to lower service levels, including small municipalities which had a poor service level in advance, in order to comply with this agreement. In the agreement to be drawn up next year, we simply have to look at how we can ensure that, in the municipalities which need to increase the service, we also have the opportunity to increase the service. I do not know if Conservatives want this proposal to abolish the service ceiling too, so that the municipalities can simply spend the money they have together and regardless. Because if you do not, this proposal will increase inequality and increase the problems for the small municipalities in relation to providing a fairly decent service to their citizens, and therefore, of course, the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123652	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the Socialist People's Party rapporteur, Mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123706	Thank you very much. I shall be brief, because the discussion of B 30 here is a repeat from the last time, as the Minister has already pointed out. In the context of the compensatory reform, the SF concluded an agreement with the Government, the Radical Left, the Left and the Alternative, and then an opportunity was agreed for tax increases and tax reductions, precisely in order to maintain the municipal service level across the country's 98 municipalities. We also recognise that some municipalities have lost more than others and that the compensation arrangements that have been made may not have been quite precise enough. But it is very difficult when you do such a big exercise as it is to make a compensatory reform. A very concrete example from reality: I live in a community where we have talked repeatedly over 20 years about how we allocate our expenses. I should like to say that there is a great deal of trouble for it, but when we have decided it is also important to put a lid on it, and then we usually find out that the redistributions we have made have, most of all, been of value and really mean very little in reality. That is also the case when we have made a compensatory reform. Somewhere I think we should recognise that it has been made and that there have been some knots, and then we have to move on. But actually, I just want to repeat what we said last year and maybe next year it will come back to Christmas because the SF is against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123840	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209123854	Thank you. In the compensatory reform, which we are talking about here, there was a number of things that Enhedslisten was particularly pleased about, and that was precisely the opportunity given to municipalities with low tax bases and high tax rates to reduce taxes. The fact that the difference has been reduced also seems to us to be very satisfactory. On the other hand, we disagreed with many of the assessments underlying other elements of the reform, and therefore Enhedslisten had to be outside at the end. We were sure that the weakest of the municipalities would not receive the necessary support, and it has since been shown that we were right. Now the Conservatives are proposing that the municipalities should not be penalised for tax increases which go beyond the losses caused by the compensatory reform to the municipalities. I have to say that I was surprised last year because you can surely find contributions from the Conservatives from previous parliamentary years arguing for such tax sanctions, and then you could quote them that would be fun. But this year I'm more hardened, and I hear the Conservatives want to cottage their own. The Enhedslisten is against tax sanctions, it must be clear, but we believe it is part of the municipal decision-making process to set the tax. If Enhedslisten were to support the proposal, then I have the feeling that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov would see it as the support that the rope gives to the hanged, because the prerequisite would be for us to take up the entire compensatory reform again and correct the weaknesses that we saw and pointed out then, but I am thunderously sure that the Conservatives would not support it. One of the problems in it is that it is too fast, because we also think that stability and continuity are a very important issue, and that is why we will have to measure over the next few years how it will work in practice. However, like the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten also believes that this is related to the budget law, which we still see reform of on the horizon, especially with regard to the service ceiling, and then I will test the views of the Conservatives on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124111	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124118	Thank you. When I was in Aarhus City Council, I had a good conservative colleague, Mr. Marc Perera Christensen. He had such an overview of the entire municipality of Aarhus in his office. Then he told such an anecdotal story that one of the older councillors of the Conservatives, who had been sitting there for many years, had said: one could so pinpoint where the various city council politicians came from in the area, because that was where in the course of time new halls had been built. And he said: During such a 30-40 year period there had been different politicians from all local areas on the city council, and then they actually built halls around the whole municipality. So from that, you could sort of see where they came from. It is a little the same with the compensatory reform. You can see where certain mayors come from in the area. You can then come up with a story where you say, "Oh, we did it because of taxes and everything else." I understand that the Left does, but let us just be honest about it, namely that it is a way to cottage one's own skin. I think it was in Mrs Astrid Krag's municipality where you just got under and then got some subsidies. Then it is easy to say that it is quite random, but now we should not mislead the Danes out there any more than what good is. I believe that this compensatory reform, like all the others, has some inappropriateness in it. Now the Conservatives are pointing out that there are some inappropriate things here. I would like them to be corrected. To raise the tax is not something that generally falls into good soil in New Citizens. In addition, I believe that Conservatives here refer to the fact that there are some structural inappropriateities compared to the way you've screwed these 28 buttons on... I think it's 28 buttons that you can screw on. This has meant that there have been some shortcomings that were not the intention of this compensatory reform. If that is what can be pointed out, then we would be happy to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124323	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124327	Thank you. I feel called to ask whether New Citizens' rapporteur can say anything about how things were going in Vejen Municipality. I have been appointed and elected in Vejen Municipality. How did things go in Vejen Municipality in relation to compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124351	I have to admit that I do not know all 98 municipalities and how it has been done in equalisations. In fact, I do not even know whether the road is a left-wing municipality now and whether it was before the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124406	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124407	I'll tell you. And that's where you're supposed to be, sir. Rasmus Jarlov may also be listening. It was a Left Commune, but it has now become conservative. But we did not know in the Left that it would become conservative now. So that's not why it actually ended up the way it did. The Road Municipality was one of the municipalities which also paid more than they have done in the past. It is also just a little to shoot it down thinking you can sit in the meeting room and negotiate and then turn in a direction, so you get it adjusted so it looks good only in Left Communes and Social Democratic municipalities, because you can't. There are simply so many criteria and that is why I have to say that Conservatives should be happy. Then, of course, I am sorry if the new Conservative Mayor in Vejen is disappointed that he has to get rid of some more money than he had thought in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124506	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124509	Thank you. Ahr, we were actually involved in negotiations on the compensatory reform, because we were invited, so we were actually involved. The reason why we did not want to be involved was that no demands would be made in order to continue to reward municipalities that did not properly resolve integration policy and that administrative costs would not be demanded. But in order not to be able to turn these things, I would say that there I have been so much inside the engine room that you can do that, you can do that. It is my clear view that it is possible to do so, especially with skilled officials.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124543	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124550	Thank you. In the last parliamentary term, a majority of the Folketing agreed on even more equalisation between the municipalities, and it has to be understood that this is even more equalisation between the municipalities. When you hear social democratic politicians in particular defending this agreement, it sounds as if the municipalities, before making this agreement, simply had the money they could earn themselves. Poor municipalities with low incomes and few jobs had no money other than the ones they could earn themselves, and rich municipalities, which are favoured by proximity to the big cities or themselves are the big cities where there are plenty of rich people and where there are also many companies with many jobs, had all the money they could earn themselves. That's what it sounded like, and that's what it sounds like when you hear social democratic politicians talking about this reform. But the reality is that there was a lot of equalisation already between wealthy municipalities and non-profit-making municipalities, so it was decided that even more should be offset. It was not on the basis of an analysis that the municipalities that already receive a lot of money do not have enough money to do the work they have to do; it was just on the basis of a desire to favour certain municipalities. When the Socialist Government put forward its proposal, it had already figured out where the majority was to be found, and it could be seen which municipalities were favoured and which were not. Most social democratic municipalities were favoured, most social democratic municipalities were not meant to contribute. Most of the Left Communes were favored, most of the Left Communes were not meant to contribute. Then there was a debate with the Left, and then there were even fewer Left Communes to contribute, and even more Left Communes to receive. This was the great, fine agreement, and the reason why the Left was involved was that even more Left Communes could be obtained as recipients and even fewer Left Communes as contributors. You can mean many things about that, but especially one thing to think about whether it seems to be the right one, namely that this was disgusting. Then the Conservatives are now tabling a motion for a resolution that the municipalities that were charged more money in compensation should be allowed to raise the tax more. Unfortunately, I cannot agree with the Conservatives on this. Although some municipalities must contribute more to equalisation, I believe that the increased contribution should be managed through efficiency improvements. We know that all municipalities have areas where they are not as efficient as other municipalities are in that area, and this also applies to the municipalities which must contribute to greater equalisation. Let me give just one example: figures from the Ministry of the Interior show that if the municipalities were under one as effective in managing as the 10 most efficient municipalities, they would be able to save 8 billion. kr. It is not certain that the municipalities that have to make the most of the new compensatory reform will be able to get a lot of money from administration, because it may well be among the 10 most efficient municipalities, but then there are certainly some other areas where they are not among the most efficient municipalities and thus can fetch some efficiency that can help them to pay the bill for this compensatory reform. We are on the side of the citizens and do not want increased opportunities for municipalities to increase taxes, and that is why we are voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124928	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique is not here, and Mr. Jens Rohde has resigned because of illness. Then it is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209124947	In 2020, a compensatory reform was made which once again gave even more so-called equalisation from so-called well-off municipalities to so-called less prosperous municipalities. When I say'so-called', it is because the compensatory reform that was made was not based on any objective criteria. It was not the case that an analysis was carried out which showed that the municipalities with the most money had to hand over to the municipalities with the least money. It was based solely on sympathies for certain municipalities, for certain constituencies, where members of parliament, ministers are elected and some parties have an over-representation in relation to other parties. The first thing that happened was that the Conservative People's Party was kicked out of the negotiations. Then there was, like, quiet work, and then the Left and the Social Democrats could sit down and agree that most social democratic municipalities should have more money and that most of the Left Communes should have more money. And then there was a small minority that had to pay the bill. That's the deal they made. The compensatory reform is so complex and consists of so many parameters, so you can link it together so that you can make sure that certain municipalities become winners and other municipalities become losers if you just turn the right places. There are so many screws to turn on that you can actually get exactly the picture of the landscape that you want, and hit exactly the municipalities that you want to hit. There's nothing objective about it; it's pure power games where you give to your friends and take from some other people I don't want to call it enemies that you're not as close to. The citizens reacted quite strongly to this in the municipal elections. In a municipality such as Rudersdal, one can see that, as a result of the compensatory reform, there is no longer a Mayor of the Left, but now a Conservative Mayor, because the citizens have become very, very angry about the compensatory reform. The same result can be seen elsewhere, especially in the metropolitan area, where it was decided to take a great deal of money. So, in this way, there has been a political consequence of the compensatory reform, but there are also some economic consequences that the municipalities are struggling with. The proposal here is specifically about the absurdity of the fact that when some municipalities now have to pay the bill... that is, the extra bill they have received in compensation... they have nowhere else to find the money than know that they have to raise the tax. These are quite large amounts in the municipalities most affected by the compensatory reform; in Gentofte, Rudersdal, Lyngby-Taarbæk, for example, it hits very hard, and there is a need to raise the tax. At least there is total agreement on this in the municipal councils of these municipalities. No one really sits and says that they can handle it easily, that they can eat it easily by cutting in their nursing home. There is such a broad consensus that we need to raise the tax. When the municipalities set up the tax, they are also offset by the extra tax they receive, which means that the bill will actually be more times larger than it was at first. So when a municipality like Gentofte is asked to deliver, for example, I think it is 164 million. kr., then the bill gets several times bigger because they try to collect it in tax, and then they have to pay extra. After all, we are thinking that it may not have been the intention to punish the municipalities three times more than the amounts that have been reported to the public, to take away from the municipalities, and then, in reality, it is three times as much as you take. We don't think that's the intention. In any case, we think that there has been dishonest communication to the public when these figures have been placed on the table and then have not been honest that in reality it is three times as much taken from the municipalities. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. We think that one thing is that you have made an unspeakable compensatory reform based on nothing but sympathies and gut feelings, and that you always think that exactly your own municipality is having a particularly hard time; something else is that you actually punish the municipalities triple by also offsetting their extra taxes, which they have to demand. That is what the resolution is specifically about. I am sorry to hear that there is no majority for this again this year. We may have to try to put it forward again later. We thought that the result of the municipal elections might have led some to consider whether we had not gone a little too far towards the municipalities, seeing how strongly the citizens have reacted to it, and that perhaps the resolution would have been supported. But that does not seem to be the case, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125437	There is another comment. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125440	Thank you. I think so and it's just a comment that there are many different reasons why the municipal map looks like it does, compared to how the mayors sit in the chairs and where they come from. I do not think it can be said that it is because of the compensatory reform alone. Having said that, I would really just like to have a comment from the Conservative rapporteur on the proposal that came from the government................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Rasmus Jarlov attended the set meeting and had comments on the play compared to what it ended up with. Mr. Rasmus Jarlov saw it getting worse or better?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125531	I can't say. I thought both were poor. And if there were any improvements, they were very microscopic. I therefore think that the fact that the Left is trying to get points so that the government first brings some horrible thing that cannot be done without the Left, and then the Left goes into the negotiating room, and then it may be a little less poor, but on the other hand it becomes something because the Left adds votes, then the Left does not get points in favour. Without the Left, the compensatory reform would not have happened. That is why the Left must take responsibility for the compensatory reform that has been made. And when the Left is so busy running and like saying that the best defense they have is that it wasn't as bad as what the government brought in first, it's a little a confession on the Left side, and they could say: okay, maybe we shouldn't have been in this at all, because it's actually pretty bad, and we don't really have a defense for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125630	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125631	It is the case that the Left remains a large party, both here at Christiansborg, but also in the municipal hinterland. That is why we are so screwed up that we are also a responsible party, and we must try to influence things here at Christiansborg in a good direction. That is actually what I think we achieved with the compensatory reform. And as I also said perhaps a little tricky when I myself stood on the platform, I can say that I have had conservative mayors who have been sitting in my office saying: Thank you for your help.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125710	Yes, it has certainly not been the majority of the Conservative mayors who have said so. At least I can say that much. But it is true that I think there were one or perhaps two Conservative municipalities which made a small amount of money out of the compensatory reform and which certainly welcomed it. But the vast majority, I would say three quarters, had money taken away. And it is true, as Anni Mattiesen said, that it is not possible to conclude on the result of a municipal election that it has only depended on the compensatory reform. I would say that it has played a very important role in the fact that the Left lost some mayor posts in the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125746	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125750	We do not disagree that this compensatory reform is not very good. The last period, after all, was set up to make a compensatory reform, and there I sat outside and looked into it, and there I could see that it burst completely together. After all, there was a blue majority in favour of a compensatory reform, so I am genuinely curious what the rapporteur's analysis of it is. Why was it that during the last parliamentary term we did not do the compensatory reform, when we actually had the power and could have done another compensatory reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125827	Well, that was, among other things. Because the Conservative People's Party didn't have the great appetite for it, it doesn't have to be a secret, and we don't, because when it is proposed that there should be more equalisation on criteria that are nothing but sympathies for certain municipalities, we find it difficult to see ourselves in it. We fully agree that there must be equalisation, it is not at all that, and that there are some areas in Denmark that have richer citizens than others, and it is of course the case that there must be a good municipal service everywhere in Denmark. So that's not what we're discussing at all. We are just discussing whether there should be more and more and more equalisation all the time, on the basis of some criteria where it seems that there is over-compensation. Analysis has been carried out which shows that some of the municipalities receiving money have more money for municipal services than some of the municipalities paying for them. And then, in our opinion, it has gone too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125928	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125929	I understand. However, in my logic and then it may be, it is the one that is wrong with the idea that one would probably have been able to negotiate a better result with one's bourgeois colleagues than with a result where one is not at all involved in the negotiations and where there is a social democratic government and has to negotiate. And there it is just that in my logic I think that then would but could have got a better result by it than what you've got here maybe I'm just wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209125956	Well, we also got a better result, because we did not have a compensatory reform, and that was better than making a poor compensatory reform. We have had it now, but why should we have agreed to a poor compensatory reform when we were in government ourselves? And we didn't know that power would change. It is, of course, true that we could perhaps have done the compensatory reform if we now knew that there were social democrats in power. Then it could have been that we should have struck at something less bad than what then became really bad now that the Left and the Social Democrats have joined forces, but we couldn't know that at the time. But at least we thought it was a better result not to reform than to do a bad reform. That is our general approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130029	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130032	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate we are having right now, because I think it is very important. I hear sir. Rasmus Jarlov is calling for objective criteria. I'm pretty sure there's a lot of elements in this equalisation that you can quite rightly discuss how it's worked together. But I hear Mr. Rasmus Jarlov says that the conservative side is involved in equalisation and that there must be good municipal service everywhere. Then the Conservative People's Party will not agree that we sat down and said: what must be the purpose is for all Danish municipalities to have a good, high level of public service, and that we must take all the means that are available and distribute them according to objective criteria, a little a la as one does with the regions, so we are sure that we objectively have the means in each municipality that enable us to maintain the same high level of service?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130127	Well, if I understand the question correctly, Dansk Folkeparti asks if we could be in favour of making a similar municipal tax throughout the country and then distributing the money; that is also what I heard from the platform before, and I must say we are not in favour of it. I can see that it has been very watered down, for example. We are making such a compensatory reform as has been done here. We can see that municipal self-government is enormously levelled and reduced because there is not much right to set the tax as you like. One cannot vote for a certain tax rate in the municipalities because Christiansborg comes and destroys it. However, we would still like to maintain that there is local government autonomy and that local authorities are also responsible for their own economy. That is precisely why we are opposed to this extreme compensation, which actually destroys the possibilities of taking responsibility for itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130222	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130223	Can we agree that the purpose of the compensation is to ensure that the country's municipalities do not see a difference in the quality of schools, care for the elderly, help for the disabled? And if we are to do so, and if we can do so on the basis of objective criteria, why is it that Conservatives insist that in some municipalities the right to have a higher level of service should be maintained than in other municipalities? Should it not be the aim to ensure that, whether it is a Social Democratic mayor, a Conservative mayor or a Left Mayor, the same level of service can be maintained in all municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130302	In fact, I do not agree that there should be the same level of service in all municipalities, because we think that priority should be given locally on the basis of what is considered to be important locally. If you now in Himmerland think it is very important to give priority to schools, you should be allowed to do so, so that you may get better schools and a little less elderly care, and if you then in Helsingør think it is important that you have very good care for the elderly, you might get very good care for the elderly and a little worse schools, and that is how we think you should have the opportunity to prioritise locally. So I actually do not entirely agree that the level of service should be the same throughout the country. We still believe that it should be local priority. Sorry, there's something about my watch that doesn't work. So I can't really keep track of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130345	Thanks for the information. Then maybe I'll help out a little by getting up a little sooner. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130352	It was this question of what was going on in the last parliamentary term when there was a blue majority that makes me stand up and ask for a common understanding here. My experience with the Folketing is that there are some parties that care about seeing the country as a whole; there are both towns and countries that are small towns and there are big cities, and then there are some other parties that are very concerned about seeing it as a city against country and country against city. In fact, there are no parties that keep saying that they are the urban parties against the land parties, but there are some parties that keep saying that they are the land parties against the urban parties. What happened in the last parliamentary term was that the Left and the Danish People's Party in the blue majority, which are two of those parties that would like to say that they are in favour of the country against the cities, would one form of compensatory reform, where more money was taken from the cities and given to the country, while there were two other parties and not just another party, namely both the Conservative and the Liberal Alliance, which said: No, we will not be joining that party against them. We're for everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130501	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. I'll stand up 10 seconds before the speaking time expires.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130504	Now it looks like the clock is working again. I quite agree with that analysis. There was a strong flow, I would say, during the last parliamentary term, when it became very popular to speak against the cities, and there is some of it left, I would say. I also hope that there are some parties who have learned the lesson here in the municipal elections, where they were also allowed to pay for that rhetoric, among other things. The social democracy, which got beaten up a lot in the big cities. The honourable Councilman in Copenhagen knows that, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also well. We think it is important that we do not start to give money to a particular part of the country in such a way that there is no legal basis for it. We fully agree that there must be equalisation. We must help those parts of the Kingdom of Denmark who need money and who do not have an income base as large as others, but it must be objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130608	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130623	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Alexander Grandt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130642	Thank you for the floor. It is absolutely essential for our welfare societies that both citizens and companies pay the tax to which they are obliged, and fortunately so do the vast majority of them. However, business owners who systematically try not to pay taxes are still away, and therefore it is absolutely essential that the tax administration has the necessary control tools. This is why in recent years there has been increased political focus on ensuring the strengthening of tax control in Denmark. The bill that we are about to deal with is about implementing parts of the agreement... A strengthened tax control... stage two... which the government and a broad majority of Parliament's parties entered into on 10 March last year. The draft law consists of four initiatives aimed at carrying out a series of sanctions against companies that commit fraud, have a black economy or fail to submit accounts. The first initiative is to introduce an opportunity to withdraw or refuse registration of companies that repeatedly fail to comply with the Tax Administration's requests to submit material. The second initiative reinforces the sanctions imposed by unregistered companies by extending the possibility of imposing taxes on the management of unregistered companies to cover all cases of unregistered companies and rearers in small-scale structures. Thirdly, a number of stricter rules on the security of registration are proposed, so that security cannot be avoided by using straw-man structures. The last initiative of the draft law is that periodic penalty payments should be placed first in the order of coverage, together with ordinary fines. In this way, periodic penalty payments can be used as a more effective means of exerting pressure because unpaid periodic penalty payments will cease to exist when the basis for the periodic penalty payment, such as the failure to submit accounts, no longer exists. The Danish Parliament has worked purposefully to restore confidence in the Danish tax system, including in particular tax control. The overall bill represents an important contribution to the continued work of rebuilding our tax administration. It is a crucial condition that the Tax Administration has the tools to ensure that companies pay the tax they legally have to pay, especially in cases where we can see that some companies will not cooperate with the tax authorities, and owners and management are trying to cover themselves under steel-man structures, and in cases where a specific company poses a risk to the Treasury. Those who deliberately and systematically try to evade taxes should know that the Tax Administration has effective tools to put an end to illegal activities. We think this is only fair, and that is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill, and I should like to welcome Mr Enhedslisten's words. Rune Lund and say that Enhedslisten also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130944	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209130947	Thank you for the floor. In this draft law there are four measures that the Socialist rapporteur has just mentioned: the possibility of including or refusing the registration of companies, the extension of the possibility of imposing taxes on the management of unregistered companies etc. in order to avoid strangulation, the extension of the possibility of requiring security from undertakings which pose a risk of loss to the Treasury and faster coverage of periodic penalty payments. It is a relatively complicated proposal, and it is probably difficult for ordinary Danes just to understand what it is about. However, it is the execution of an agreement that we made earlier this year, in fact in March of the spring of 2021, namely the agreement It was a comprehensive package with which 250 more employees were employed for tax control, and we see it as a way of trying to rebuild the tax administration. This was something that we set in motion when we had the government last time, in connection with the reconstruction of the tax administration, and so we would very much like to follow it to the end. It is important that the Danish tax administration is one that you can count on and that people can also expect that if others do not pay their taxes, then the tax administration does everything it can to get it charged. So, of course, this is important and that is why we think it is a very good idea to implement it. We also support these proposals. However, we have noticed that there are some who are concerned about something with legal certainty, and we will of course do more of that in committee. Otherwise, however, I would like to say that this is a legislative proposal that we in the Left will support, and I should also like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they can also support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131142	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131153	Thank you. The reason for this bill is that an agreement has been reached on enhanced tax control. The Danish People's Party is, like a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, part of that agreement and therefore we support the bill. The draft law contains four different initiatives, all of which aim to ensure that those who cheat on taxes can be better targeted. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that we come after those who cheat. It's the case that as much as 10%. of all companies are deliberately cheating, and this is why there are a great many companies. Some of the amounts are, of course, quite small, but there are also systematic frauds in some companies. The four initiatives in this bill are tools that can be used to come after those companies. There are several reasons why we must strike down hard on those who grossly cheat the state for money. It is, firstly, because it costs the state money, secondly, because it violates people's sense of justice, that some people get away with fraud, and thirdly, that it distorts competition for those who pay for what they have to do. If there are two companies, one of which pays a high tax and the other does not pay anything, then you know which one survives, and that is obviously not right. I can therefore say that the Danish People's Party can support the introduction of these four initiatives, and thus that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131305	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131313	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here is, of course, essentially the implementation of the control stage 2 agreement on a strengthened tax control in Denmark. The Socialist People's Party was included in that agreement, which is why we naturally support the bill. We note that the elements of the agreement are being implemented, among other things. in that the Tax Administration must now be able to include different registrations from companies if they do not want to work with the Tax Administration and provide the necessary material for control. We think that is quite reasonable. Similarly, the agreement will ensure that managers of unregistered companies may be required to be liable for taxes not paid by the companies themselves. The third implementation of the agreement, which we are discussing here, is that we increase the scope for the tax administration to require collateral for companies in which there are management people who have previously held leading positions in companies that have caused a financial loss to the State. All three legislative changes are good and reasonable proposals that result in a good and fair agreement, and we in the SF are pleased that money was also added in the area at the time, so that we can increase control of our tax system and include the money we need from the state. We also look forward to being able to work on the task of ensuring proper control of tax payments in the new control stage 3. In addition to the fine implementations of Control Stage 2, we note that there is such a rather technical change in the manner in which periodic penalty payments are levied. We are not directly opposed to this either. SF is voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131447	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mrs Kathrine Ollyday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131455	Thank you, President. The Radical Left is also included in the agreement...A strengthened tax control... stage two from March this year, so of course we also support these sanctions in relation to companies that cheat on taxes. Some of the things that I also find interesting to look at also in relation to the fact that we are about to negotiate a new debt recovery agreement is, of course, that there is quite a lot of corporate fraud or VAT fraud, VAT carousels, etc. that end up being large debts over in the Debt Authority's apparatus. In the report we received yesterday from the Debt Board, which was published there, we can see that far more than half of the total debt comes from companies, and there is indeed a great deal of talk about people who, as conscious fraudsters, set up a company and then leave the VAT debt to the Danish taxpayers. In my view, the control effort is very, very closely linked to our efforts in the area of debt, so it is a great pleasure to help restore this area. By the way, I would also like to say a special thank you to the good people over in the Ministry of Taxation and in the Danish Tax Office for the good work that you are doing. It is a pleasure to help restore a management area in the way we are doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131626	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. Then it's the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131632	Thank you. We were talking about the fact that it was almost a pity for all the young people who had come today and were going to visit the Folketing, that this was the case they were going to hear a debate about. I am sorry, there is not much debate. We sometimes have that in the Parliamentary Chamber. This is a very, very technical matter, but if you stick around a little bit now I don't know how long the young people can be here... it's gonna be about when Denmark's going to war and how to vote for it, and it might be something a little more comfortable than this, which is a very technical tax matter. On the technical tax issue here we have to say that we are basically in agreement. We're in the deal, and we think this is going the right way. Some concerns have been raised in the hearings about a state of law and such things, but I expect that we will be addressed in committee to see if there is anything to be done there and if there is something to be corrected. But basically, of course, we're positive about this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131721	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then it is the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131726	All I have to do is join the other parties and say that the Liberal Alliance is also voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131733	Thank you. Then we are through the rapporteur's series of those who wanted to speak. So now it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209131742	Thank you for that, President. May I not begin by thanking you for the very good and positive reception of the bill. It is absolutely right, as has been said, that if our welfare society is to function, we must of course ensure that those who have to play by the rules do so too. This means, of course, that the rules on tax payments must be respected. If that does not happen, trust in both our welfare society and the financing of it will be undermined, and not least trust in our welfare society. That is why this is an important legislative proposal, because, as has been said here, if you do not play by the rules that are set up and are a company which, for example, cheats and crooks, it is of course a serious problem, but what is also a problem is that it is unfair competition with those who actually play by the rules and behave properly. That is why it is, of course, my job as Minister of Taxation to ensure that the administration that the radical rapporteur praised and a thousand thanks for it has, of course, the right control tools. This is especially true when we see companies that do not want to cooperate with the Tax Administration or deliberately choose to avoid and therefore not to follow the rules. These are the problems which the government and a broad majority of the Folketing have now decided to address. That is why I am very pleased that we have all the parties of the Folketing behind the agreement which is the basis of the bill here. It is important not only for the restoration of confidence in our tax administration that there is such broad support as there is here, but also for those employed by our authorities to know that there are broad shoulders behind the efforts they are making right now. That is why, on the basis of our joint agreement, we have tabled this bill. If we take a closer look at the bill, it is proposed, as I said, that a company's registration with the Tax Administration should be withdrawn or denied if, following repeated inquiries, the company does not submit any material to all tax administration's controls. The tax administration must, of course, be able to obtain relevant information from companies, but some companies unfortunately fail to respond repeatedly to the tax administration's requests, and there is no doubt that this helps to prevent the work of the tax administration. Of course, we should not accept that. The proposal put forward must then ensure that those who do not want to cooperate with the authorities meet with an effective sanction. This will strengthen tax control and, of course, also the foundations of the common tax payment. It is also proposed, as has also been suggested, that we tighten sanctions against companies that have a black economy because they choose not to register with the tax administration. There is no doubt that the black economy exists, which means that if you want to, there is a risk of loss for both the Community and the Treasury. Most often the reality is that there will be no money to collect from the company when it is discovered that the company is not registered with the Tax Administration. In addition, the lack of registration of companies means that the tax administration obviously finds it difficult to control them. Already today, the Tax Administration has the possibility to impose on the management of unregistered companies taxes and duties arising from the unregistered company. However, this does not apply in such cases if, for example, directors have used a strawman structure not to be registered as a management member themselves. It's a little technical, but it's central to exactly this work. It is therefore proposed to extend the rules to cover all cases of unregistered companies. In addition, it is proposed to extend the possibility for the tax administration to require security from companies that are deemed to pose a risk of loss to the Treasury. The proposal must include, inter alia: ensure that it is not possible to avoid having to provide security by using a strawman's construction or by closing the company and creating a new one, which we also see in the case of. Finally, it is proposed that periodic penalty payments during recovery should be covered more quickly so that periodic penalty payments become a more effective means of exerting pressure in the situations we are talking about here. More specifically, it is proposed in this context that periodic penalty payments should be placed first in what we call the order of coverage, together with the other fines. This will make the instrument considerably more effective. However, let me round and thank you once again for the positive comments and, following on from the desire of the new citizens to clarify some of the very few comments that have been made on the proposal in the consultation round, we would of course be happy to stand up in the Committee on Taxation and ensure that they are clarified so that we can get these tools working as quickly as possible and ensure that the rules we have jointly established are also followed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209132317	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209132331	Then we have the last item on the agenda which just requires that we have the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Chamber. I'm gonna give it 1⁄2 minutes, or we're gonna have to take a break. The debate is open and the first to speak is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209132456	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. The proposal helps to focus attention on one of the most important and serious decisions we can take here in the Folketing, namely to send our soldiers to international operations in the hot spots of the world. We owe our sendees, veterans and relatives our deepest respect. They have put themselves in the service and risked everything... some ended up sacrificing everything... to maintain security in Denmark and make the world a safer place. We cannot express our gratitude enough for this. Not least for their sake, we must create the best possible framework for Danish contributions to military operations. It is a great responsibility which the government is fully aware of and which we assume. We have previously discussed in this Chamber the principle of qualified majority voting for Danish military contributions to international operations, and the recent end of 20 years of military action in Afghanistan has again focused on our military efforts. Unfortunately, developments in Afghanistan did not go as we had anticipated and wanted, and this has given us all the opportunity to reflect on when, how and why we should send our soldiers for international operations. These are difficult and complex questions that require thorough answers. Therefore, the government wants an impartial historical explanation of the Danish effort in Afghanistan. It is important that we are always open to learning from our experiences, and an explanation can help to provide an enlightened basis for a thorough public debate on the action. At the same time, the government's clear position is that the only way to protect Denmark's security, our democracy and our values is to engage internationally, including with military contributions to international operations. We must continue to dare to put our hand on the hot plate when necessary. On behalf of the government, I would like to make it clear that we fully support seeking as broad parliamentary support as possible for military broadcasts. This is, of course, particularly true of decisions on the most sharp and complex missions. We are therefore also very pleased with the adoption text of December 2019. Here we jointly urge that the current government should seek broad support in the Folketing for Danish participation in international operations at all times. It is a text of adoption on which all the parties of the Folketing supported. It is a principle that the government itself has fully lived up to. The Government's six draft resolutions on military contributions since 2019, where we joined the EU. on the UN peacekeeping mission in Mali, maritime surveillance in the Strait of Hormuz, NATO mission in Iraq, the fight against piracy in the Gulf of Guinea and the fight against terrorism in Mali have all been adopted by a majority of at least 85%. of the votes cast here in the Folketing. And, above all, prior to its adoption, the Foreign Policy Name has been closely involved. However, the government considers that there are a number of elements in the resolution which make it impossible for us to support it. Firstly, it is the prerogative of the current government to conduct its foreign and security policy at all times. The motion for a resolution will undermine this important principle. Secondly, the current government must, in accordance with Paragraph 19 (3) of the Constitution. 2. obtain the consent of the Folketing when it comes to using military means of power. Under the Constitution, this consent does not require a qualified majority in the Folketing. It can be said that the only place where the Constitution requires a qualified majority in the Folketing are those cases where sovereignty is granted under Article 20 of the Constitution. These are therefore exceptional constitutional decisions. As I said, we want the broadest possible support when sending our soldiers on dangerous missions in the world, but the government does not want a certain percentage or fraction to determine whether the government can conduct the necessary foreign and security policy. Thirdly, the motion for a resolution on qualified majority voting seeks to promote transparency in the decisions on Danish participation in war. This assumes that a qualified majority will necessarily lead to greater openness and sharing of information. The government does not agree with that assessment. Transparency and information sharing are created through good and close cooperation with the Danish Parliament, including the Foreign Policy Name something that I personally attach great importance to. Already today, the Constitution ensures that decisions on Danish participation in armed conflicts are subject to a thorough democratic discussion here in the Folketing and in the Foreign Policy Name. Let me make it clear that cooperation with the Folketing and the involvement of the Foreign Policy Name must, of course, be adequate. The involvement must be early, ongoing and active, and therefore the government has also involved the Foreign Policy Name in the very initial stages of the government's internal reflection on possible new international military broadcasts. And there is nothing in the current situation that prevents an open and thorough discussion of decisions about Danish war participation. The basic ambition of the motion for a resolution on broad parliamentary support for war participation has already been followed by the government in practice. This is something we support, in other words, seeking broad support. However, as explained, the government cannot support the resolution before us. However, I would like to emphasise once again the government's agreement with the proposal's intention of broad political support when we send out our soldiers. That is why I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the debate. I think this is an important debate and it is important that we, together here in the Danish Parliament, seek the widest possible openness and involvement and the widest possible basis for decision when we send our soldiers out on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133150	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133154	Thank you. I simply cannot understand why the Foreign Minister and the Government cannot support this proposal here. It has been part of a government of a social democratic government. The Foreign Minister's colleague, Nick Hækkerup, gave a flamingly beautiful speech, the last time it was discussed in the Parliamentary Chamber, declaring that he would support this proposal in full as it stood. Why is it that, as soon as the government has been brought to power, the Social Democrats cannot support such a completely fundamental and fine democratic principle that we must actually have a proper majority when a decision is taken on something as serious as going to war?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133238-2	Well, I think I said it very clearly, and I would like to repeat: the Government fully shares the intention to seek the widest possible support in the Folketing when it comes to decisions to send Danish soldiers. In relation to the decisions we have taken and proposed in the Folketing, it is over 85%. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: So we ourselves live up to that principle, including in relation to the involvement of the Foreign Policy Name. If the government does not support the resolution, this is because it will undermine the principle that it is the prerogative of the current government to conduct the foreign and security policy of the country at any time, that we do not want any particular percentage to be decisive in the conduct of the necessary foreign and security policy, and that, as I mentioned earlier, the Constitution requires only qualified majority voting in the Folketing, in cases where sovereignty is granted under Article 20 of the Constitution. In other words, these are exceptional constitutional decisions. Finally, we on the part of the government think that it is about how we work together with the Foreign Policy Name and the Folketing with openness and early involvement. That's what's important and crucial in these decision-making processes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133346	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133347	If it is so important for the government to secure it, one could just vote in favour of that resolution, as has been said in the past, and actually say: there must be a proper and broad majority when taking such a serious decision. But then I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: has the government been wrong in the past? In the past, when we were not in government, the Social Democrats have said quite clearly: we want a two-thirds majority when we go to war; we will vote in favour of this proposal. There was no snitch in the waltz. So have you been wrong in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133423	No, I stressed that we in the government fully share the intention to seek the widest possible support in the Folketing when it comes to decisions to send Danish soldiers. But we do not think that setting some percentage is the right way to do it. It is about involvement and showing in practice that the broad majority is being sought. I just want to remind you that the six decisions that this government has taken in this area since it arrived in June 2019 have all been with over 85%. Parliament's assent, and we intend to continue the line of broadest possible involvement in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133457	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133500	The government basis that the Social Democrats helped prepare in 2011 states that it must be a clear principle that Danish soldiers can only be deployed in international military operations with the support of at least two thirds of the Danish Parliament. That position was then supported in 2019 by the then rapporteur of the Social Democrats, Mr. Nick Hækkerup, and it says: And it is a legitimacy that can also mean something else, namely that the young men and women we send forth, knowing that they risk scars on body and soul, some of them perhaps never to come home, should know that they have the support and support of the Danish people. See, it was the Social Democracy both in government and in opposition, and now I can see the Foreign Minister delivering this speech. Yes, I come from a party that is quite enthusiastic about recycling, but I have actually followed the speech, and here I am with Anders Samuelsen's speech when he was Secretary of State, his reply in 2019, and large parts are pure copy-paste. I like the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not needlessly stand up and come up with new wordings, but it is amazing that the current Minister for Foreign Affairs is practically giving a speech which the then bourgeois Foreign Minister made against his own rapporteur at the time. What's up and down in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133612	We have had this debate in the Folketing since then, even after this government has taken office, and we have expressed the same last time we had the debate here. Nothing has changed in the sense that the government attaches great importance to seeking as broad parliamentary support as possible for military broadcasts. Our track record also shows this, in other words the six resolutions on military broadcasts we have delivered in the lifetime of the government, and we intend to continue to seek a broad majority. But the government cannot allow itself to be tied by an arbitrary percentage when it comes to decisions on the sending of military contributions. But I really think I would like to thank the rapporteur for also acknowledging that this government is doing what it has to do to involve the Folketing broadly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133701	Thank you. And just before I give the floor, I would just like to remind you that, if there is a quote that comes from somewhere, we would also like to know, for the record, where it comes from. Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133713	I can read that in the Parliamentary Times, because that's where I get it from. But it's just here, it's amazing. So, at one point, the Social Democrats, both in government and in opposition, stand for one point of view and do not use concepts such as arbitrary figures, but just because they bind it up to legitimacy, and that was both in the then government base, and that was in the speech of the then Socialist rapporteur, and now the current Socialist Minister stands with a speech that is largely copy-paste from what the then bourgeois Foreign Minister said. Where's the consistency of the social democracy line in this? In particular, I mean this: suddenly it's such a random thing. What this stands and falls with is that the Danes who are sent out into the most dangerous missions should know that they had broad support in Denmark, and it is true that the current government is making efforts to have it, but why not get it down as the way we do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133806	It is true that we are making great efforts, and in connection with the six resolutions on military broadcasts over the lifetime of the government, we have also provided support for, I believe, between 87 and 91 per cent. We shall continue to endeavour to do so by the members of the Folketing. One of the important things is also the whole process that reaches the resolution in the Folketing and the early involvement of the Foreign Policy Name, and also even where we have not taken up our position in the government, the mention, which is mentioned Members are also aware of. We believe that it is important for the government to work closely together, but we will not be supporting an arbitrary percentage.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133845	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133847	Thank you. As I heard the Foreign Minister, the two strong arguments for not voting in favour of the resolution are that it is, on the one hand, the prerogative of the government to conduct its foreign policy. I agree with that, and so is the Radical Left, but exactly when it comes to participation in wars, you normally have to be in the Assembly Chamber, in any case, as executive, because you have to adopt a war budget and have to secure support for it in the Folketing. So we have to do it anyway. So what we are discussing is: is this something that we have to bind each other to have a qualified majority? And that there is the second argument so that the closest can be contrary to the Constitution. As far as I am concerned, I do not think there should be any law on this. I just imagine that there will be a political agreement between all the parties of the Folketing that such large and serious decisions will not be taken by a narrow majority for the sake of our soldiers, for the sake of Denmark's security policy, for the sake of the efforts to be made. So we're basically just looking for a political agreement. We're not looking for any kind of legal suspension. That is why my question is simply: would it change the attitude of the government if this were to be about a political agreement and not a real law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209133959	The government's position is clear: we want, like Mr. Martin Lidegaard to seek the widest possible majority in relation to decisions to send soldiers to war. And we have endeavoured to do so, and we have succeeded in doing so in the time the government has spent, and we will continue to do so. We are just not in favour of any percentage proposed in the motion for a resolution. And then we find that the Constitution requires a general majority. What rules will be laid down in the Folketing is, of course, the prerogative of the Folketing, incidentally, and is done in relation to the Rules of Procedure. You can choose by a general majority here to lay down the rules you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134041	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134043	We don't want to make any percentage either. We just want to set a minimum for how many members of the Folketing, for example. Just 60%. And I just don't have the imagination to imagine a situation where our party and I don't really think the Social Democrat could do it either. But, as is hypothetically the case, we should be able to imagine that we would actually do so if we were not to be able to enter into an ordinary political agreement and say that we are binding on each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134121	I believe that all of us who have been a member of the Folketing over the years remember the 2003 resolution on Danish participation in the Iraq War, where Social Democracy was opposed and where it was adopted by a very narrow majority. And there has also been a war investigation which has clearly given some very sensible recommendations for early involvement of the Folketing. This government has also sought a broad majority when we have had to send soldiers out, and we will continue to do so. So politically, we do not disagree with the statement of intent. We just disagree on the percentage in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134158	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134202	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister. Respect for the fact that the government has sought broad support in relation to the six decisions taken here. I am pleased about that, and we in the Green Group are pleased that we are trying to do so. But we have seen that previous governments and former political majority have gone to war, for example. in Iraq, with a narrow majority. And it has had violent consequences. War has violent consequences. I mean, that war had the consequence of that, for example. was up to a million civilians who lost their lives, and refugees and destruction came. So this isn't just about the current government. It is also about ensuring that when other governments come along, they set a standard and create a tradition. I know that you can roll it back so that you cannot just go to war without a qualified majority; that applies to the current government and the future governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134304	Well, as I said, I share the intention and I think that the fact that we have the debate is absolutely crucial. That is why we would also like to thank you for the motion for a resolution because it creates the necessary debate. I think that there should be maximum openness and thoroughness about decisions when we send our soldiers out, and of course also the broadest possible support in the Folketing and involvement. That is what this government is trying to do, and I hope that future governments will do so too. You can also say that if you do not do so, it can also have some political consequences. That is how it is in a democracy. But I can at least say that this government is looking for the widest possible cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134343	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134344	But then may I not try to hear the Minister about anything. After all, my colleagues have said in the past that in 2009 and 2011 there was one position, and now you have a different position while you are in government. Could the Minister just explain why a change of attitude has taken place? So, one thing is that we have changed our position, but why have we changed our position? Why is it that at that time it was thought that a qualified majority would be needed, while now, when you are in government, you are thinking that it should not? I think the citizens would like to know that. What are some intercepts that make you change your mind and now say that there is no need for a qualified majority and that it must now be easier to go to war?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134423-2	Well, the government shares the view that the widest possible support should be sought in the Folketing when it comes to the deployment of Danish soldiers. After all, we have fully lived up to that principle ourselves and intend to do so. However, we do not want a certain percentage to be decisive in determining whether we can pursue the necessary foreign and security policy. The Constitution only requires a qualified majority in the Folketing, in cases where sovereignty is given, in other words, in relation to exceptional constitutional decisions. So what I think is important here is the early involvement, openness and broad political anchoring of these decisions. That's what the government is working for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134500	Then it's mr. Mark Grossmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134503	Thank you. I do not quite understand: how did the Social Democratic No to a war participation in Iraq in 2003 suddenly become an argument for the Social Democrat No to a qualified majority here in 2021? I do not understand the comparison made by the Minister before. After all, you said no to the war participation in Iraq in 2003, and then the broad majority was interfered with in relation to the arguments that were put forward, in response to the question that came from down here. I simply do not understand that context.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134541	I meant then, and I still think that it was a wrong decision for Denmark to go to war in Iraq; a resolution which, as others have said, had very serious consequences. I think that the parties that helped make the decision should be able to face this, 18 years after it was taken. The war investigation has shown that we have learned lessons from the problematic process from then on. For example: In this government, of which I am a part, it has been committed to early, ongoing and full involvement of the Folketing in decisions on Danish participation in war. We offer the Foreign Policy Name a thorough review of Danish military interventions when major contributions are taken home. So I think that at that time much more openness and involvement should have been sought in relation to such a significant decision as in 2003 to take part in the Iraq war. It chose a very narrow majority not to do so, and I think that was wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134634	It does not look as if there are any follow-up brief remarks. So thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments, so we are starting with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Mrs. Annette Lind, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209134650	Thank you for that, President. When we talk about sending people to war, I always stand on this platform and say it's the worst decision for me as a parliamentarian. Pressing the button to send people to the world's hot spots is the most difficult of all. So I would also like to thank you for having the discussion again in this Chamber today. We've had it a few times before, but personally I feel like when you send people out, we should be grateful. Our brave women and men, including people from Holstebro, whom I know very well in relation to the barracks in my city, are people who go out into the world. They are fighting for security, stability, peace, democracy and human rights for all of us. Often it has personal consequences. They therefore deserve the greatest gratitude, recognition and respect, and they deserve the clear support of Denmark and the Danish Parliament. I've only seen that support we've given while I've been in the Folketing. This is how the Minister said that for the six missions we have sent out during this period of government there has been support of between 87 and 91 per cent. It is also the case that this motion for a resolution, which we have today, B 7, when we talk about a copy, is in fact a copy of the resolution tabled by Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from SF. What has been replaced this time is that the two thirds have been replaced by a qualified majority. And, of course, when you have done so, it is also with a view to having broad support, and we have actually shown broad support with actual policy when we send people out. Moreover, I very much agree with the authors of their criticism of the then government when they made mistakes in handling Denmark's participation in the failed Iraq war. It is precisely for this reason that the Social Democratic Government has given a very high priority to ensuring both close and early involvement of the parliamentary parties in Danish military action, also in the form of a thorough level of information. Now there are many of us Foreign Policy rapporteurs who are also in the Foreign Policy Name. I have seen that we have received very, very close information and the Minister has consulted us. At the same time, it has also been the case that we have been involved very, very early, and that is also what this resolution said, namely that we should have more transparency by having a qualified majority. The two things are not necessarily linked. However, as I said, I understand very, very well that it should be a broad majority. Then the question was asked before why we don't want to. The technical part has been said by the Minister, but it is actually the case that we, the foreign policy rapporteurs, had a very, very long debate in this Chamber in December 2019, exactly two years ago. We were to discuss the explanation of why Denmark went to war. On that occasion we produced a text for adoption, V 42, and I have it here. I would like to read aloud from V 42 from 2019: • To this end, the Danish Parliament invites the government that is currently in office to give a thorough review and evaluation of the foreign policy action when a major contribution from an international operation has been recovered or every five years for long-term contributions. In view of the nature of Danish participation in international operations, the Folketing considers that the current government should seek broad support for the efforts of the Folketing. ▪ This was a Socialist adoption text, which I personally spent a great deal of time getting through. And if you don't remember, then it was the fact that this 2019 adoption text about us having broad support has one hundred percent support from all parties, yet the Free Greens weren't a party at the time. But one hundred percent. So that is why we have an agreement that we must have a broad consensus every time we send military operations out into the world. So when Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who is not in the Chamber right now, says that I have not imagined that we should make a law, because we should rather make an agreement, then that agreement lies in black and white: we must have broad support for it. Therefore, it is also with one hundred percent participation from all parties in the Folketing. This cannot be stronger than the message we made ourselves in December 2019 in V 42 adoption text. Otherwise, I would say that, on this basis, the Social Democratic Party cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135205	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's from sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135208	We have achieved many good things together with the government; that is right. But here Mrs Annette Lind is trying to sell rubber band in meter size, and that is not going to work. Because, with the wording of a broad majority, the question is what it is. It could be 51 per cent, and it could be 55 per cent. That is why we are tabling the motion for a resolution. It is to make it clear that one cannot get away with saying that one has broad support for something if one ends up with those very narrow decisions, because then it is up to an elastic band in meter size when the broad majority is there. That is why we are putting forward this specific proposal. It is true that Mrs Annette Lind says that this is a re-submission. We have written that in it, so it is clearly a re-submission. That's not where this copy-paste is weird. Where it is strange is that in the 2019 Social Democrats' then rapporteur, Mr. Nick Hækkerup, and argued for this proposal, and then the then bourgeois Foreign Minister made a speech against it. That speech is basically today, and I can see in longer terms, literally copy-paste to the speech of the current Socialist Foreign Minister, against the resolution. That's where the mystery comes from. So, try to clarify the mystery of how to take positions of this kind, not only at the rapporteur level, but also at ministerial level, where the Socialist Minister is making a citizen's speech and where the Socialist rapporteur is now arguing against what another Socialist rapporteur argued a few years ago. That's where the mystery is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135326	Well, it's just that when you're sending people to war, it doesn't have to be a mathematical formula. The Minister has just said that in relation to it. So is it 66 per cent, which is two thirds, or is it 60 per cent, which is probably not a broad majority in my optics? It is the case that the proposers here say a qualified majority. What is a qualified majority: is it 60% or less? It is, of course, an understanding of how we see the word broad and how we see it qualified, but it is in our actual policy, with this government, that we are sending people out by a majority of between 87 and 91 per cent, while at the same time we have produced a text of adoption in which all parties are in favour of a broad consensus. If it is 55%, it is not a broad consensus. I do not think any of the parties that signed the adoption text in December 2019 will say that. That is why it is precisely the same thing to write broadly as qualified, in relation to the fact that we do not know exactly what the figure is to be in relation to it, and the proposers must also make concrete proposals on this: what is a qualified majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135441	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135442	I simply think that Mrs Annette Lind is thinking too well about the right wing too well. Because I can easily imagine a situation in which the right-wing party argues that a broad majority, for example. is 55%, because we have experienced the right wing in the past being so completely blinded by going to war that such a small thing as when something is wide or not, they do not attach themselves to it. I think that what Mrs Annette Lind has to think about is not just what it is like now, because there again I would just like to confirm that we have an extremely good relationship with the current government, which has managed to make the broad majority. But I think you should prepare yourself for worst case... that's what you do in war situations... and the bourgeois people come back to... for what? It is very good to have a leash in them by saying that we have a qualified majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135525	In fact, I think that a text for adoption might be a little deeper than a motion for a resolution, to be quite honest, and with a text for adoption that has 100 per cent of the support of all the parties in the parliament, which writes that there must be broad support for sending people into our war zones, I believe that broad support means broad support. Ask ten men on the street what a broad connection means: Is it 55%.? No.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135554	Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135556	Thank you to Mrs Annette Lind. I tried to put the question to the Minister and I do not think I was given an answer, so I will now try with the Socialist rapporteur. Can the rapporteur not make us aware of what it is that in 2011 in the government base it is written that two-thirds of the majority is needed to go to war? That is the attitude of the government and the Social Democratic Party, and it will be confirmed again in 2019, but that now, when you have the power to actually do so, you will not do so? What has happened in the meantime? Why change your mind? Could the rapporteur make us aware of what it is that is between us or what it is that means saying in 2011 that you want a two-thirds majority, and now, while you have the government, you say that you do not need it, and then you refer to a text for adoption and all sorts of other things? What makes you change your mind? What are these middle bills? I would very much like to know if the rapporteur can put some words on that, and I think the citizens will.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135705	Well, I think our policy speaks for itself clearly. When we send people out to hotspots in military action, there has been between 87 and 91 per cent agreement. That's the way it is. And does a motion for a resolution involve more than a text for adoption, to which all the parties have agreed, of broad support? We don't want to put it on a mathematical formula. After all, the Minister has explained how it is technically related to the constitution and so on. What is important to us is that when we send people to war zones, it must be with broad support, and we have proved that with the 87-91 per cent. And we believe that the people who are being sent out deserve broad support. And all the parties in the Folketing have agreed to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135747	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135748	Well, I'm trying to ask a very sincere question, and I just think it's such parrot-like and rehearsed answers, I get we drive in circles. After all, the government wanted a two-thirds majority in 2011, and then I ask why it does not want it now. Then reference is made to a text of adoption and all sorts of other things. And in relation to the rapporteur's question: yes, because if a resolution is adopted today, hopefully it will turn into a legislative proposal and so on. etc. So I am sorry that I cannot get an answer, because I am sincerely trying to understand what it is that in 2011 you say you want a two-thirds majority and today you say that there is no need for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135829	To say that I speak parrot talk is really degrading when I try to explain what is happening. In fact, I do not think it is the intention of the author to say anything ugly about his colleagues, but that is what we want broad agreement on whether it is two thirds, 66.6 per cent. or 65% is not important to us, as it seems today, because we are showing something else. We show that the connection is between 87 and 91 per cent. So I would say that I speak nicely, and I do not speak parrot talk; I am trying to explain it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135908	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209135912	Thank you. I think that as a government one should remember that it is not just about one's own practice and what one does in the very current situation. It is also about the fact that when we make legislation together in this Parliament hall, we actually have an opportunity to set some lines which also bind future governments and which bind the way we all make legislation. This is, of course, the opportunity which unfortunately I think the government is wasting, and I think that is very important today. I'd like to solve something. The rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind, says that, in the eyes of Mrs Annette Lind, saying broad support is quite the same as saying a qualified majority, which is what lies here in our resolution. Well, why on earth isn't one for if it's exactly the same thing? Will the rapporteur not vote in favour of this proposal? Why, then, will the Social Democrats not vote for it if it is quite the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140012	I'm not saying that things are the same. I say that technically the word is qualified and broad the same in my optics. But that's how we made a deal. Why should we make a resolution now that we say that it should be a qualified majority when all the parties in the Folketing have said that there must be a broad consensus? For me, a deal has been made, and can it be wider than a hundred percent? In my opinion, exactly two years ago, in this Chamber, we have produced a very, very good text for adoption which does not need to be changed. The Minister has explained the technical aspects.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140054	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140056	So I understand it's obviously not exactly the same after all. But, of course, we have also voted in favour of a broad majority, but that is a very, very elastic concept. And if future Parliament is also to be able to maneuver in the policy we have, it is a good idea that we should specify a little more what lies in it. How do we simply make the board up when we have to vote? That's what we want. And when we say qualified majority here, it's actually to have a dialogue with the government, if you have to turn a little on it, fine, so let's talk about it. We would have that opportunity if the government voted for this so that we can move forward in the process. But it is simply too elastic just to say broad, for it can be anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140138	Well, I have not said no to dialogue, and I do not know the Minister either, so we will certainly have to discuss these things. It is entirely everyone's wish that we should discuss things, but the word broad and the word qualified has, in my opinion, the same value. That is why I would like to hear about something, namely that if we have to say the word 'qualified', then we have to put a figure on it, because otherwise it makes no sense in terms of being broad either. So that's why it's a number. A qualified person should, of course, be a figure if that is the case. That's why they might as well write two thirds compared to this. In fact, I think that broad is broad and I think that most people know what broad means.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140228	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Annette Lind. There are no more brief comments, so we go to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mark Grossmann. Here you go, sir. Mark Grossmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140251	Are you done arguing down there? Thank you for the floor. I must begin by saying that I have the floor today on behalf of Michael Aastrup Jensen, our rapporteur in this area. The motion for a resolution we are debating today will introduce a qualified majority in the parliamentary resolution on Danish participation in war. The decision to participate in war is one of the most far-reaching decisions that members of parliament can make. The intention of the proposal to create more transparency about such a decision is therefore an honourable intention. That is also why the position of the Left, both in government and in opposition, is the same: in the matter of sending Danish soldiers out, the widest possible majority must be sought; a word has been mentioned several times already. The Left, however, has as a cornerstone of our foreign and security policy that we take responsibility internationally when our allies need help or when crises arise. Therefore, binding staff to this principle would remove the flexibility that such responsibilities may require and would be incompatible with the fundamental principles of the Left. The proposal argues that the introduction of this proposal will have to discuss information and background in a wider democratic forum, rather than deciding it in the narrowest possible way, i.e. by a simple majority. The discussion of information and background knowledge is already taking place in the Folketing and, as the Minister also mentioned earlier, in the Foreign Policy Name, which the proposal will not change. The Left cannot therefore find the similarity between qualified majority voting and greater openness. The Left therefore does not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140448	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140453	Thank you to the rapporteur, sir. Mark Grossmann. I mentioned just before the war participation in Iraq, which was adopted by a very narrow majority. One million people lost their lives, Danish soldiers lost their lives, and it created refugees and destruction. Do you not think in the Left now that it was probably a bad idea for such a narrow majority to go to war and we should not go into now how the basis of that war was • which had so great consequences? In this light, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it does not make sense to say that there should be at least a two-thirds majority in the Folketing? Then you can always seek wider support • 85%, 87 per cent, 91 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140604	Sir. Mark Grossmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140605	I do not think there is any doubt that most people have learned from the Iraq war, and everyone has probably queued up to be hindsight about it. What we are discussing today is precisely whether we should have a qualified majority in the votes in relation to our efforts, i.e. whether there should be a broad majority. There we on the left are very clear about these things. So we don't distinguish between 51 or 75%. What matters to the Left is that we have complete confidence in the elected representatives, in other words the parliamentary politicians who sit in the Chamber and vote. It would be reasonably frustrating as a parliamentary politician to be the one who has the decisive vote and then not be heard because there will be a number of left-wing parties who believe that it should be a large majority who decide it. This is the way to neutralize the voting rights of Members of Parliament. In the Left, therefore, we simply have confidence in the elected representatives, and we think this is too important to discuss whether we should consider it to be a qualified and a broad majority. We are just saying that we have had the same attitude all along, and we are loyal to it. This is not really about what to say about the massacre that was in Iraq at the time. I think it's mixing things up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140720	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140722	It was now for an example. We could also talk about Libya or Afghanistan. It was just to give a concrete example and, like, back up my argument. It can be said that when it comes to wars, we in the Free Greens think it is so serious that the rapporteur himself described it with the most violent words that we have to say that it is disastrous if not a large part of the Folketing is united. And this is just one way to secure it, so to say, it can't be less than this, or we won't go to war.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140808	I think we are going to send an unfortunate signal to our allies, and thus NATO, if we start to say that we have to have a two-thirds majority here, because we may not really feel that the voting rights of individual Members of Parliament should be particularly high. In order to be sure that we take seriously the elected representatives who have voted in and who have a very decisive mandate, it may well be that it is only two or three who decide it. Every single mandate we know can be decisive in all the votes on the biggest decisions, and if we are going to start discussing this with which cases are the greatest, I must also ask: what about the minkskandal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140854	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140857	I think it's quite awesome to have Mr. Knox. Mr Grossmann, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. Mr Grossmann strongly argues that any vote in this Chamber, including that on participation in wars, may well end up with the overweight of a vote, because every member of the House, like Mr. Mark Grossmann has just argued in favour, has a voice. How does Mr. Mr Grossmann saw the Socialist Group's emphasis on this text of adoption that there should be a broad majority, which was the whole point of Mrs Annette Lind's rapporteur's speech? For as the Left reads the proposal for adoption, it is not worthwhile that it is not by a broad majority; it is possible with the overweight of a mandate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209140938	Clearly, if we come down to the fact that it is with the overweight of a mandate, that must be the case. But the Left always seeks the widest majority. We are looking for the broadest cooperation in the Parliamentary Chamber. We'll always do that. It's the best we can do. It also sends a clear signal to our allies, and it sends a signal to NATO. It sends a signal that Denmark will support and help the allies. That is why the Left will always go for the widest majority. But there comes a time when we are going to argue for the small details. And I would say that your proposal for a qualified majority may be a little more fluent than the answers I am giving today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141013	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141014	Well, it's just that, uh... it's just that, uh... it's just... it's just... it's... it's just... it's... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... Mark Grossmann put a huge bomb under the adoption text, which was the whole crank in Mrs Annette Lind's speech. I am in agreement with the rigorous argument put forward by Mr Seligman. Mark Grossmann delivers when he says that it must be up to each member of parliament to vote in the final vote. Therefore, it is also only that in the situation that could arise under a bourgeois government, the Left will understand a broad majority if it is just with a vote's overweight. For if that government of bourgeois observation at that time had to think that the allies needed Danish war participation, one would be willing to give it with a vote's overweight. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141049	Through the information that comes to us as members of parliament via the Foreign Policy Name, where both Karsten Hønge and I sometimes attend the meetings, we both have a chair in there, plus the information that goes to the Danish Parliament, we get a knowledge that we can continue with. There, of course, it is our duty to ensure that that knowledge comes out, so we have an enlightened basis to vote on. And it is clear that I say that if it is a vote that can decide, it must be so, because we sit in the Folketing and each mandate can be the decisive mandate next time it may be Mr. Karsten Hønges and we have to submit to that. We just say in the Left that our goal is that it is with the widest possible majority, and we in the Left make sure that we get as much as possible, so that it is as convincing as possible. But it is clear that at some point it may be with the overweightness of a single voice. It hasn't happened yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141136	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141139	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur was not sitting in the Folketing when the votes fell around the Iraq War, but can the rapporteur imagine that the Left would be prepared to take another decision on participation in war, where only three parties, or how many, are needed to have the majority, and perhaps that is not so much more? Can the Left imagine that the decision taken at the time on the Iraq war will also be ready to take another time?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141217	After all, we made that decision about Iraq back in 2003, when it was the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, and if that situation were to arise again, it had to be so, and that is what I have emphasised. There is no point in us swinging around a little as needed in these debates. We have to say that we can get into a situation where we have to vote with the least possible. What is merely our aim in the Left is that we should have as many votes as possible in as serious a vote as this one, but I am aware that at some point in the debate that has been in here, it is more and more about whether it is one, two or three mandates that can be crucial. That is why I am just trying to put it at the forefront by saying: yes, we can get into a situation in a democracy like Denmark that it may be one voice that decides it. We do not have to go there, but it is just to put it at the forefront, because we in the Left clearly have the position to go for the widest possible majority, and we will make sure that we get as much as possible, and that is what we do by providing the basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141310	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141311	I would really like to thank the rapporteur for his clear and consistent talk. We do not agree politically on this, it has to be said, but it has been the position of the Left all the way through that it was enough for there to be, it can be said, a general majority when it comes to voting on war, and I should just like to point out to the government that the majority vote on the broadest possible majority can therefore be interpreted in any way. So if we want to bind each other in the future to the fact that there actually has to be more than just a simple majority, now is the time for the government to strike and do something with the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141349	I heard from the Social Democrat rapporteur that a little distinction was made between broad and broader, and that is also what I am trying to avoid because it will be a complex discussion, which is really not about human life at all. I thought that the discussion we were going to have today was about Denmark's participation in war and the lives that we are going to have to defend. A little bit more ends up with wide and wide, and I might think that's a little too bad. What we are just saying here on the Left side is that we are going for the broad majority, to get as many as possible with and to inform the Members of Parliament so that we have a basis that allows us to vote on the basis of what is our best conviction and the ideology that we now have, and we must be honest about that, and we should not talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141430	Thank you, sir. Mr Grossmann, rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments, so the next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141450	Of course, it is good if there is a broad majority behind decisions to wage war, just as it is desirable that there is a broad majority behind financial and other laws. But what is being proposed here? It proposes a principle that there must be a qualified majority in order to send Danish soldiers. How can you clarify whether you have a two-thirds majority like this? The only way to do that is to put it in the Chamber. And if there is a majority on a single mandate, then we will have introduced a principle that a government must act in contravention of the majority of the Folketing. It's the other way around. The normal thing is that it is an advantage if the government abides by the majority in the Folketing. So it is contrary to an absolutely fundamental principle of how Denmark is managed. Then you can ask yourself whether it is reasonable and reasonable for a minority to be able to decide the majority of the Folketing on this issue. I don't think it is. In relation to the motion for a resolution itself, we see problems in the Danish People's Party, although, as I said, we have great sympathy for the idea that as many mfs as possible are behind a decision to go to war. According to the Constitution, it is the government that conducts Denmark's foreign and security policy. By introducing a requirement for a qualified majority, one might be able to water down that principle. The requirement for a qualified majority should be used in the exercise of sovereignty, as stated in Article 20 of the Constitution. It is the position of the Danish People's Party that the use of qualified majority voting should continue to be reserved for proposals for the surrender of sovereignty. By the way, a Niels Hausgaard quote just occurred to me. It's from the song who's in charge? And I quote: "For most people have the power, so it's so easy/ It's gonna be exactly as most people have decided/ But are we gonna be smart just because we're a lot of people?" / Think how smart we could be if we were just enough! So as far as the proposal is concerned, it will be a no from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141706	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141710	It was a fine way to end the speech by quoting Niels Hausgaard. You come back to this with the majority. It is logical that all parties in here always work to obtain the largest and widest possible majority behind their own proposals. Mr Grossmann says that we are working for the broadest possible majority, I would say: yes, thank you, we all are. We want everyone to see the wisdom of our own proposals. But the day we're gonna decide what's the most important thing for Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen? Is it that there is a broad majority in favour of sending Denmark to war, or that there is a majority in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141746	The best thing would be for it to be the right decision to be taken, if only by the majority of a mandate. I think that must be the crucial point. If the parties that then have a majority in this matter decide that it is the right thing to do, then that is what you have to do, and then you shouldn't stand up for the other thing I don't think you should.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141808	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141809	Then I hardly have to ask again. It is a confirmation that for the Danish People's Party it is not essential that there is a broad majority. Of course you would prefer it, because it is obvious that it is best for the people we send out. We are all agreed on that. But after all, the majority of the mandate is to send Denmark to war enough for the Danish People's Party, regardless of the fact that you have worked for the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141830	Yeah, that's right. I would also say that a myth has arisen that the soldiers out there think it is really wonderful if there is a large and broad majority in the Folketing, but I am not sure that is correct. I have never heard any soldiers express disappointment that the SF was not in a resolution. It's not that I'm trying to offend Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, but that's not what the soldiers care most about, I should say hello.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141858	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Søren Espersen, so we move on to the SF rapporteur. No, not anyway. Then we move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209141919	As several speakers have said, this is not exactly a new debate. This is a discussion we have had since 2003, when we saw for the first time the situation that it was a very narrow majority that sent Denmark to war. And I really do not think that this should be a discussion about our war experiences either in the first Iraq war or in Afghanistan or elsewhere. I think this is a fairly fundamental discussion with regard to the people we send out, if necessary. That, for me, is the primary concern here. And the second primary consideration is Denmark's security policy. When you decide to send the Danish defence on a mission in an armed conflict, you take the ultimate step, you might say, in a country's security policy. And I really think it makes sense that when you do that, you do it by some kind of broad majority, both for the sake of the people who have to risk their lives at the sharp end, but also for the sake of ensuring the continuity and support of the people for the security policy pursued by the Folketing and the government. I am aware of the fact that it is the prerogative of the government to conduct its foreign policy. That is not what we are talking about here. It is also the case today that you have to ask the Danish Parliament before going to war, not because of the decision, but because you cannot have them doing it in practical terms without having a budget and a defence to do so, and that requires the support of the Danish Parliament in practice. So you have to go to the Assembly Hall with it. The second argument is whether this is contrary to the Constitution. I mean, I do not feel it necessary to make any law, nor, for that matter, do I need to change the Rules of Procedure in the Folketing. It's okay for me to make a broad political settlement. It is a unique institution in the Danish People's Rule, where the parties can give each other hands not legally, not to some authority, but politically, that we do not want to send our forces to war, without there being enough in the Folketing who think it is a good idea. That's kind of what we'd like to see. That's the easiest part. And what's a little funny here is that I can hear that all parties in the Folketing want a broad majority. It has been painful with the one time we did it without, and it has been in different ways for all of us; there is no need to step around in that anymore. But if there is that willingness on the part of all parties, I also find it a little difficult to understand that the same parties cannot then be brought together to shake hands with each other that this situation will not happen again. There is, of course, one good argument I hear from those who do not want to support this: where do you set the minimum percentage? How do you do that? I understand you can say that, and I think that is also worth a discussion. I'm thinking personally that 60%. It is a good figure, then, that we have cut a little bit from the practice of the Council of Europe in relation to some of the decisions that are difficult there, but we are also at some limit where it is not unrealistic to achieve it, even if there is one or two of the major parties that are opposed; then I do not think it is harder to secure it either. In any case, we are happy to sign the political agreement, which should not be a secret. I think it'll be good for our soldiers. I think it would be good for the Danish people's government. And I think it would be good for Denmark's security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209142309	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209142344	When the Danish Parliament sends people to war... when Denmark goes to war... it is in my view the most serious decision one can make at all. We know that when you go to war, it is totally indisputable that it will also cost you human lives. We also know that it has very, very long-lasting consequences for the people who are sent out from Denmark and who often experience some really violent things, and even if they come home with their lives, there are a great many of them who have been injured, both physically and mentally. We can see that in those countries where Denmark has been at war it is perfectly clear that it has always had huge consequences. The Iraq war was really bad because so many civilians died, but the Afghanistan war has also had the consequence that we are still left with a chaotic situation in the country and that very, very many ordinary people have had their lives destroyed for a very long time and that the country has been destroyed so that you cannot grow your crops or have working cities at all, etc. Afterwards. It has extremely great consequences to participate in war, and I believe that everyone who has been deployed knows that, as well as their families know, and everyone who has lived or worked in a war zone knows that. And that is precisely why I think it is quite reasonable to say that when we in the Danish Parliament are discussing something that is so important, one must also put the bar a little higher and say that it is not enough that there is just a general majority here that there is actually a little more to do before one takes such a serious decision. It's a mechanism you know from all sorts of other places. If any of you have been involved in association and such things, you know that it's actually very common to say when you say, for example. We must vote on the articles of association, so that a slightly higher vote is required and there must be a larger majority. It is to stress that it is important, and that is just what we want with this proposal. We would like it to be emphasized in the Folketing that when you take a decision to send people to war, there must therefore be an increased awareness that it is a vote that is so important that it also requires a greater majority. Now there has been a discussion about: what is then a qualified majority? My view is that a two-thirds majority would be very good to put in over it. By the way, quite frankly, that wouldn't be very tight. It is only in relation to the Iraq war that we have not had it. There have been lots of wars which we on the Enhedslisten have been very opposed to and which would have passed anyway, even if you had a two-thirds limit. But I think it is a reasonable principle to use in relation to the work of the Folketing to say that it is a two-thirds majority. But when we write in this proposal only that it should be a qualified majority, it is because we, as proposers, are simply so inclusive and reasonable that we would also like to have that dialogue with the government and the other parties. So we say: all right, if it has to be screwed up a little, either in an agreement or in a bill, then let's hit something else. As Martin Lidegaard also says: Okay, it could also be 60%. Let's have a discussion on that. I think the government could really reach out to that. I think that a two-thirds majority makes a great deal of sense, but I would like to have that discussion with the government if the government wants to discuss it in any way. I think it is very, very clear after today's debate that just having a proposal for adoption, as we have done in the past, that one should like to have a broad majority, nothing guarantees. We have a historic opportunity to say: when Denmark goes to war, it is so important a decision that, in fact, there must also be a higher voice connection. I think the government should take that chance to make sure that we actually changed the way we legislate. I think that would be historic and entirely appropriate, because it is so insane serious. As my last comment, I can say that it is clear that we in the Enhedslisten want this proposal to say that we must have a thorough and open debate on Danish participation in war and what is going on. I do not think it will be enough to adopt this proposal. I think much more is needed. We have also seen in the past, also where there was the two-thirds majority connection, that there has been a great deal of information that did not come out sufficiently and was not dealt with well enough. I think there are many things we should look at in this context. But with what is here, I simply see nothing more than that this is an obvious opportunity to actually ensure, not just with such airy words, but actually to ensure that such an important decision as war participation is actually taken by a larger majority. I really would urge the government to take part in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209142848	Thank you. There are some brief comments. But first: the radical rapporteur must also be mentioned with his full name and title. Eva Flyvholm Sorry! I'm sorry). Here you go. The first to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209142859	Thank you. The issue of sending people to war is, of course, very serious, and I fully agree with the rapporteur. I think we all are. I also remember, however, that the rapporteur's party has said on many other occasions in the field of social policy in the field of health policy in the area of climate policy: this is going to cost lives. So it is not unique that we in here, in this way, are very much in charge of life and death. And why it should be special about this, I find it very difficult to understand. It was just a comment. My question is actually: the Enhedslisten is not usually involved in such things. What about Libya, the bombings in Libya at the time? The Enhedslisten voted in favour. It was a unanimous Parliament for a few days, and then Enhedslisten was no longer there when they saw where it was going, and it actually started to get serious. Isn't this just an attempt to be sure that Enhedslisten will make sure we never go to war?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143000	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143002	I can assure you, sir. Søren Espersen that if I had the power to ensure that we never go to war again, then I think it would be very obvious to try to use it. Apart from that, it is not really the position of Enhedslisten that you can never go to war. There may be, for example: be some humanitarian operations in which we think we are legitimate to participate, and the rapporteur knows that too. But what this is all about is ensuring a process in the Folketing, and that is also why I say: this should be a super-small proposal that the majority could endorse. That's not good enough for us in the Enhedslisten. We would then like many of the wars to which there has been broad support, to be said, which could have been prevented. But quite frankly, this is to ensure that a minimum threshold is set and that it is taken very, very seriously when you go to war.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143104	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143104-2	Well, this is also why Enhedslisten isn't part of the defense settlement. We know why. It's just an unwillingness to everything called military. That is really what this is all about. And I think it is fantastic that this is how you stand, pretending to have a large veneration for the soldiers, saying that it is their meties and so on, and at the same time saying that the only thing you can really do is actually be a UN mission. That's what I hear is being said. That's why Enhedslisten isn't in the line of defense and probably never will. I will certainly be very disappointed if that happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143142	I think my party country would be, I can say. There are many good reasons why Enhedslisten is not part of the defence settlement. So we do not think we should spend around 60 billion. kr. e.g. to buy new fighter planes to go out into the world and bomb. We don't think so. There are many good reasons why we are not in it. But that does not change the fact that I think we need to have a common understanding that war is a serious matter and that we must therefore have a proper majority in this Parliament when we vote on it, and even if our parties will probably disagree on it in the end, there must be a proper basis, and Enhedslisten, for example, has. often supported the veteran packages etc. that have been made. So we're kind of interested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143218	Sir. Mark Grossmann, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143219	Thank you. I also hear that Enhedslisten is probably more peace-keeping than peace-building, but I think that although you are as passive as you are, in terms of defence issues, I do not think that you are now part of the Folketing, of course how NATO and the allies view the role of Denmark with the statements you have when you, for example. states 60 billion. kr. to a couple of bombers flying around the world and bombs etc. In other words, it is such a rather frivolous approach, and I think it is also in relation to this debate or debate that there has been, about voting in here, and that one has to be so many for a war participation to say yes. Isn't there any signals from Denmark that way around, if you have to think out of the box, a little away from Enhedslisten and as part of the community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143310	I take it very calmly if the outside world should look at Denmark and say that here is actually a country that takes it very seriously when sending people to war. Because it has very major consequences; I think we agree on that. So, yes, I wanted to be quite calm about saying that there is actually a parliament that has decided that this is something we attach extra weight to. If we are talking two thirds, the only war that has been waged over the past many, many years and that would fall below that limit is, in fact, the war in Iraq. After all, the others are meeting the requirements. That does not mean that I have agreed with them, because I am not. But that means that they could actually have passed through with that legislation. So what we are putting in here with a two-thirds limit or another qualified majority is precisely that we are emphasising that it should be dealt with properly, that it is important and that more votes should be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143404	Sir. Mark Grossmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143407	I would just like to ask the question one more time: is the Enhedslisten not concerned about what the signal will be to NATO, our allies, when we have this debate, where it is more about how many people will vote in favour than the very content of perhaps going out to save lives and be peace-keeping or peace-making, as the Enhedslisten also mentions? Can the Enhedslisten not try to put some words on whether there is any insecurity in relation to it, because I know that Enhedslisten is very concerned about the Community feeling?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143436	I do not believe in any way that it creates insecurity, either internally in Denmark or externally, to say that a proper democratic foundation must be ensured when discussing and voting on war. No, I don't think so. However, with regard to what the rapporteur also asked earlier about what NATO will not think about, that I stand and say that I do not support the purchase of the fighter aircraft, I also have quite a lot of peace in my stomach. I think it should be considered whether it is justified to spend so much billions of Community money on, for example. to buy new bombers. There I think that Denmark could make a better difference to peace in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143510	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143521	Thank you very much. My first case at all here in Parliament was whether we should send Danish soldiers to Mali. It was in the autumn of 2019 and it was a tough case. I could feel the yoke on my shoulders when I stood on the very same platform as today. And there is no doubt that it is probably one of the hardest things for all of us in here to have to send young Danes out into the world to defend Denmark's interests and security. Our young soldiers are making a huge effort. They'll be praised when we meet our allies, because they're top pros. We are not only sending them to war; we are also sending them out to bring about peace and stability. The proposal made today by the proposers to impose on the government a principle of having a qualified majority in the Folketing is a proposal which has been on the table before, and I can therefore say the same as the last time we discussed the proposal and that is a quote from Mr. Naser Khader, I have to say: we agree that the widest possible majority is preferable when making decisions about Danish war participation. It helps to create legitimacy if, as a whole, Parliament is behind it when Danish soldiers are sent to war. We agree with that, it is good for Denmark and for the men and women who have to be sent off. So, in principle, we are in favour of the proposal. However, if we cannot support the proposal, it is because it is the right and prerogative of the current government to conduct the foreign and security policy of the nation at all times. Therefore, the government will only have to obtain the consent of a simple majority in the Folketing when a decision is taken to use military means, according to section 19 (3) of the Constitution. 2. In the Conservative People's Party, we fear that a demand for a qualified majority for such a decision will be inhibiting and that we risk that Denmark as a nation will not be able to act when our allies need our support and assistance in the world. Democratic debate and thorough discussion should always be present when we take important decisions, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But a demand for a qualified majority, a two-thirds majority, and what else has been mentioned by percentages in here today, would become too rigid and too square. We believe that a government should be able to act and should be able to act when a majority is needed, and that is why we cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143741	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143741-2	It is clear, as we have said before, that all parties would like the widest possible support for their own proposals. There's not much new in it, and that's the way it is. So what importance does Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, in fact, on the adoption to which Mrs Annette Lind has referred, that the Folketing believes that there should be a broad majority behind it, that is to say when it is ultimately not what matters when it really comes to the end? The day when the vote was due to take place is enough for the Conservatives to have a majority in favour of one mandate, and then we look very much at the adoption, which was a year ago, of the broad majority. Can the rapporteur clarify this a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143820	Yeah, I can do that. In fact, I believe that Mrs Annette Lind was right about what she said. A text for adoption has been drawn up, V 42, which the whole parliament supported, namely that we should have as broad a majority as possible, and that is what we are behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143832	Sir. Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143833	It is clear that we stand by it because we have all voted in favour of it. But it doesn't really matter. That's what I want to do. In fact, on the test day, when a government wants to send Danish soldiers to war, 1 mandate will be enough for the Conservatives. Is that correct? You want that majority, but if it can't be there, then one mandate is enough. Is that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143854	There will always be situations where one mandate will be able to make the difference, and that is the way it is. What is in the proposal for adoption is that there is a broad majority in favour of seeking as broad a mandate as possible, and that is what we are looking for. But it is clear that if you stand on the day and have to adopt something and there is only one majority, then that is the way it is. And we have to deal with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143917	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143920	Let me start by saying that I fully agree with what the Conservative rapporteur says. I am touching a little on that myth that it is so important for soldiers whether there is a broad, a qualified or an ordinary majority, and I know that Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen is associated with a number of people in the military, and I would like to hear from the Conservative rapporteur whether he has ever heard that disappointment has been expressed that Enhedslisten and SF were not involved in a resolution on the war broadcast.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143947-2	No, I have not, but I must be honest and say that I have seen in Estonia that soldiers have told me that it was nice that there was such a broad majority behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209143959	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then we go further. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144015	Thank you for the floor, President. Free Greens can support the proposal. In fact, we could also have been co-sponsors of the proposal, because as a starting point we in the Free Greens believe that Denmark should only participate in peacekeeping missions and humanitarian missions and as a starting point not participate in wars of aggression. We know that these wars have violent, violent consequences for the soldiers we send for relatives. They cost a lot of money. Where these wars are going on, we have seen that many, many civilian people are losing their lives. In Iraq it was up to a million people. In Afghanistan there were up to 200,000. This creates refugees, whom we have subsequently seen that there is no willingness to accept in Europe. It's ruining society. It's destroying infrastructure. So, it is really, really violent, and that is why we in the Free Greens believe that there must of course be a qualified majority so that it becomes more difficult to go to war. So Free Greens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144141	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144143	Thank you very much. I took note of what the rapporteur said about the fact that we do not want to go to war, but we want to participate in peacekeeping forces or missions; that is how I think the rapporteur put it. But do we not agree that it may be necessary to go down to clean up before you can rebuild?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144201	I would say again that when we look back on the last 20 years and the wars that have been and the consequences it has had, it was a huge disaster and a huge mistake in our optics. Therefore, Free Greens do not believe that Denmark should take part in wars of attack. So I would say: No, Denmark should, as a starting point, only participate in peacekeeping and humanitarian missions, not wars of aggression.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144239	Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144241	Can we get a clear answer, not as a starting point, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144247	Denmark should only participate in humanitarian and peacekeeping missions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144253	Sir. Mark Grossmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144256	I mean, this isn't gonna be a word clip, but this is such a serious issue that we're gonna have to drill a little bit. It is true that, in order for something to be peacekeeping, there must have been a peace-building situation, as the rapporteur also knows. And we do not always know how things develop around the world. We must be at the forefront and sometimes we may need to make efforts, in other words military efforts, in order to set the framework in the countries which the rapporteur is so afraid of being powdered by bombs and massacres etc., as mentioned. But to be at the forefront, so that these things don't happen, it may be necessary to send Danish forces down there. So I also think it's a little interesting whether we can get a yes or a no. How far will the rapporteur go?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144343	I thought I was very clear in my answer to the second question. Denmark should be able to participate in peacekeeping and humanitarian missions. The proposal here is that a qualified majority be required. So we in the Greens want to make it as difficult as ever for Denmark to be able to participate in wars of aggression. We do not believe that we should take part in wars of aggression when we look at the last many wars in which we have participated.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144414	Sir. Mark Grossmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144415	In that case, I am a little back on the question that I put to the Enhedslisten, i.e. whether that signal creates no insecurity, by sitting around the world, that is, with NATO's allies, waiting for a huge majority in the Danish Parliament to be able to send our planes on our wings.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144434	No, I don't think so. I do not think that NATO, or our other partners, would be a problem for us to qualify for our mandate to go to war on the contrary. I think that it would be gratifying if not, Denmark must be a pioneer here. It is absolutely crucial that we in Denmark once again become a humanist great power and are the ones we look towards when peace is to be achieved and when diplomacy is to prevail.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144512	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. And that means that we can move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209144523	Thank you to the Minister and the rapporteurs for having dealt with the resolution tabled today by the government's support parties. It is, of course, essentially a re-submission of the motion for a resolution which was also on the table in 2019. And today's debate has proved to be absolutely necessary. We still need to clarify this point: if we were to adopt a two-thirds or a qualified majority to send Denmark to war, that would be contrary to the Constitution. First of all, we are not asking for a legislative proposal to be drawn up, but a cooperation agreement in the Folketing on how to do it. What is interesting here is if you think that putting forward a concrete proposal for a two-thirds majority or a qualified majority would be contrary to the basic law, but do not think that this is a decision on a broad majority. I believe that everyone should be able to see that this is a contradiction that really wants something, because then a broad majority will also be in conflict with the constitution, because the constitution only operates by a majority. So it is, however, one of the more amusing, I think, illusions to use, i.e. it is quite impossible to imagine a two-thirds majority, while one can well imagine that we are deciding that it should be by a broad majority. So if one is contrary to the Constitution, the other is. On the other hand, we are in this situation, fortunately, that none of them is contrary to the Constitution, for we do not imagine a law drawn up but a way of working together. I would also like to say that this has been a very useful debate today in terms of getting clarification on the proposal for adoption that we adopted in 2019, also around the broad majority. It does not appear to contain anything of substance. The Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Annette Linds, spoke about the whole core issue, that we already had a vote which, moreover, should be better than the proposal that stands and which works with a qualified majority; then the proposal for adoption adopted earlier by the Danish Parliament should be even better. There we have seen today that Mrs Annette Lind and the Socialist Group's arguments have been turned to stickwood. After all, we have had one party after another up here and confirm that for them it does not matter that there is a broad majority, because if it is, they see a broad majority as a majority of a mandate. So it shows and emphasizes to the extent that it is important that we adopt a resolution such as the one before us. And to this talk that we are going to work for the widest possible majority, I would say: yes, we all want to do that and preferably for our own proposals, don't we? But I would also like to say straight away, and I have said this earlier today, that I have great respect for the government's ability to get a large majority behind the proposals that have been made. But the point is that a resolution must be based on a worst case scenario: what if it happens again that we have a right-wing government that will not feel bound by a broad majority, which should be understood as anything other than a majority of a mandate? Today's debate has helped to clarify this and it has been very good. We think it is necessary to return to such a common understanding of the past that Danish participation in war requires a solid and broad support in the Folketing, because it was and is absolutely essential that our published brands support and support from the whole society • the society to which some of them never returned again, the society to which too many came home with scars of soul and body, with great consequences for themselves and not least their relatives. It is a group of people that we, as a society, have not yet learned enough to deal with with with dignity. Basically, as a democratic society, we need to make such major decisions on a proper and broadly based basis. This used to be the consensus-seeking and peace-loving Denmark until 2001, when new standards for Danish war participation were set. We saw this first and foremost in the first months of 2003, when the VK government had decided internally to send Danish soldiers to Iraq on a basis that was only after the decision had actually been taken and much too late presented to the Foreign Policy Name. After all, the case had already clapped off with the parliamentary basis of the Danish People's Party. The rest of the Folketing's parties, both bourgeois and socialist parties, voted against. The decision-making basis, on which the narrow majority sent Danish soldiers in an offensive war for the first time in 150 years, later turned out to be the purest fabrication of lies that started a war that we constantly struggle with the consequences of and from which we so often see the horrors. Denmark was involved; Danish women and men were sent into sharp action in a war that really had no purpose and that international law had no anchoring. The Iraq War stands for me as one of the greatest disasters in recent Danish history... both its execution and its basis for decision, which was more than ordinary criticism, and as my predecessors, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and Mr. Villy Søvndal often has skin braided. And it actually touches me when Holger K. Nielsen talks about his meetings with young idealist soldiers about our presence in Afghanistan. They believed that they made a difference, but they were just not quite sure which one and some of them never came home again. When we present this motion for a resolution, it is not because we believe that we can change history in this way. It is not because we think that we can get a better taste in our mouths over the militaristic foreign policy that Anders Fogh Rasmussen in the 00s allowed Denmark to lead in an attempt to follow the United States in thick and thin. No, when we present the motion for a resolution, we do so because we actually want to return to the situation before 2001 when it was crucial for Uffe Ellemann-Jensen and Poul Schlüter to have Svend Aukens and the Social Democrats' acceptance of the Danish corvet Olfert Fischer's participation in the first Gulf War. They even had to accept certain limitations in the mandate of the corvette, because for the then bourgeois government it was absolutely essential to have a broad anchor behind the effort. We want to return to the 1990s where Poul Nyrup Rasmussen and Niels Helveg Petersen included the bourgeois parties when the Danish soldiers were sent to the Balkans to contribute to the peace of the unhappy civil war. We want to return to the time when there was a consensus that war and peace are too important to leave to the whims of block politics. Is that a safeguard against wrong decisions being made? No, it's not. In 2011, a united Parliament supported sending Danish bombers to Libya, which seemed extremely sensible in the heat of the fight, but which we must subsequently consider to be an erroneous decision. But precisely because the decision was taken broadly, the recognition is also a joint responsibility, and it should always be that way when we send Danish soldiers out in sharp missions. Their contribution and their sacrifice are too important and too great for it to become a political conflict issue. When they stand out in the world with keels on their shoulders, they represent all Danes, and therefore they deserve broad support. When they stand out there, they must never be in any doubt as to why they are standing there, and therefore they deserve the decision-making basis for their broadcast to be clear. That is why I would like to say once again that I believe that the present government has cleverly gathered a large majority for the foreign policy initiatives and respect for it, but we have to prepare ourselves for a worst case scenario. I wonder if that day should arise again, when we will have a bourgeois government that wants to follow the United States in thick and thin and perhaps even into unpredictable wars. Recently, we agreed to settle the whole Afghanistan war. The DIIS shall be responsible for the independent historical analysis. And on the whole, I think we have reached a fine and broad agreement, although SF would have liked to have seen a more direct study of how we lost the local support, but enough about it. Now the DIIS needs to be calmed down, but it must not treat the militarism of the 00s. I would therefore appeal to everyone to see themselves and to see themselves as responsible by supporting this proposal and to take responsibility for the fact that the processes that led to the disastrous decisions soon to 20 years ago must never happen again, and responsibility for the fact that a broad anchoring and proper decision-making will once again become a cornerstone of Danish foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145405	There are brief comments. First, Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145408	Thank you. Basically, we agree on this, and that actually applies to the whole House. There are some words that are being disputed differently. It is so that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from the SF tabled a motion for a resolution on 1 March 2019, and the same motion for a resolution has been retabled and is now being dealt with by the curl that in 2019 it was said to be by a two-thirds majority in which it is written today that it should be by a qualified majority. It is not written in what we are discussing today that it should be by a two-thirds majority. I just want to point that out. Then it is the case that we have all agreed in the Danish Parliament that we must have a broad consensus. All parties agreed to that. What is most important is a broad consensus or a qualified majority? It is, of course, the case that a bourgeois government, whatever is adopted in a text of adoption, in a motion for a resolution or in a legislative proposal, can change it at any time, if they have a majority, so that they can go to war with the majority of a mandate. So what's the highest watchman?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145519	Like another Barnaby, immediately after the meeting, I must begin to unravel and find out how the concept of two thirds went out. At first sight the suspicion is directed either at the elves or at a Christmas mouse, which must have eaten from the section where there is a two-thirds majority. But honestly, does it make a big difference? The point of the proposers is that we should set a limit which guarantees a broad majority. Mrs Annette Lind just has to acknowledge that the crumble and substance of her rapporteur's speech were turned to fire by the bourgeois rapporteurs, because in their optics a majority is 51 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145557	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145559	I am very sorry that the bourgeois people are coming from the text of the adoption that was made. Because when you make a text of adoption, which all the parties are behind, that there must be broad support, if we send people to war, that must apply. And so it is less so than a motion for a resolution which states that it should be by a qualified majority? You can ask out in the public what a qualified majority means and what a broad majority means. I would like the SF rapporteur to explain to me: what is the difference between a broad majority in a proposal for adoption that we have adopted and a qualified majority in which there is no percentage, as stated in the proposal that the SF and the red parties will adopt today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145640	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145641	I can really, really explain that. It is simply about the fact that if we decide that there must be a two-thirds majority in order to send Denmark to war, that is two-thirds. We can then discuss whether it should be by a qualified majority or two thirds, whether it should be 70%. Or these 66 percent. or 60%, if that's it. There's no way around it. However, Mrs Annette Lind just has to acknowledge that the adoption was turned to stickwood today, because the bourgeoisie is now saying that a broad majority is 51 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145709	Then it's mr. Mark Grossmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145711	Thank you. We put it at the tip to simply puncture the balloon of word clues. I have a question for the rapporteur. After all, you are talking about the right-wing parties being blinded by war, that we simply cannot have enough war, and that we cannot be American enough, but we need no more than eight years to come since the start of the war in Iraq, and then we will land directly in Libya in 2011, where only the Enhedslisten is backing out, and in 2013, as it is about Mali, the Enhedslisten will not participate at all in voting against it, and they are very direct and very cash. It seems to me a little that Enhedslisten and SF are following each other in thick and thin today, and with regard to the blinding of war, can the rapporteur for the SF not just try to explain: now that the proposal was voted down in 2019, what are the new arguments that have come up since we have to have the proposal back up in 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145812-2	We are talking about very serious things here, namely risking Danes' lives in war, and therefore we will insist that this should be done on a broad popular basis. After all, I have already provided an explanation as to why it was good to have the debate today, because we were able to clarify what a broad majority means. For Mr. Mark Grossmann means a broad majority 51 per cent, when it comes down to it it was an incredibly exciting and important thing to clear up and that means for the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party too. And I can actually follow the rigorous argument; it is not difficult to follow, but I just think it is wrong. Then I would say that it is with all parties that Enhedslisten, SF and Radicale move in the same direction, and then there are other points where we disagree. We also thought it was fine to go to Afghanistan and try to beat al-Qaeda flat as freckles, but Enhedslisten did not think so. We thought we should have pulled out again soon after, but that's how there are disagreements between Enhedslisten, Radical and SF, but we agree on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145913	Mark Grossmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145915	Well, Karsten Hønge, I will have to ask you to answer when you have today been so warlike in your rhetoric, as to who votes to go to war: What exactly is the reason why the SF in 2011 and 2013, with only 2 years apart, votes for war participation, and that Enhedslisten doesn't? Because there is not so much difference between you, but compared to the debate that has taken place today, I understand from Mr. Karsten Hønge, that participating in war is very, very violent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209145945	Yes, I'd like to confirm that. I think that taking part in war is very, very violent, and I do not think that I have given the right wing more enthusiasm for war than it has. I do not claim that this is the general way around and is enthusiastic about going to war. It would be a quite unreasonable accusation, but I can only say that the militaristic foreign policy that Anders Fogh Rasmussen stood for put us in trouble in a number of places. And, by the way, it was in the 2011 government base, where Social Democracy was the leading party, that you should have this two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209150017	I say it quite quietly and with a glimpse in my eye: one must be careful not to use direct indictments in this Chamber. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209150027	Isn't that right, sir? Karsten Hønge, that there are many, many times in the Folketing, where we go into some areas that are about life and death? Is it not true that with the way in which we make health policy, the way in which we make social policy and perhaps the way in which climate policy is running, we can equally quite rightly say that these are also areas that should be covered by this new proposal? Isn't that exactly what we sit and do, sometimes with held breath? I think that's right when you vote on something, but that's how our lives are in here. We help control life and death.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209150111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209150112	Yes, sir, I can follow the thinking of Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen. There are other areas of policy that are extremely important. But I think this is different, regardless of the fact that there will be patients who die if we do not invest enough in our health services, and regardless of the fact that there may be so little social legislation that there are people who simply commit suicide and I fully recognise that that can be the case. The difference, as I see it, is that here we are asking specifically named people to risk their own lives completely personally and directly. It is not something we do in other areas, that is, that we simply point to certain soldiers to be sent abroad and say to them: you must be in service and risk your own lives. It is so extraordinary and dramatic that I think it deserves special popular support.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209150207	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209150208	But Mr. Karsten Hønge then admit that at least as it has been for many, many years, no soldiers are being sent to foreign missions by force? You could do it. There is nothing to prevent conscripts from being summoned and sent to the front, but we do not. So the people who volunteer as soldiers are, I assure you, sir. Karsten Hønge about, mature enough to assess exactly what they are doing. They obey an order given to them by the government, exactly as it should be, and then they do their duty as soldiers, and we all pray that they come home safely.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209150247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209150248	I don't think we even disagree so much. What I am trying to point out is that the difference here is that the soldier who chooses to leave is not himself the master of what action he should take. That soldier has to do what he's told. That's the way it is in the military hierarchy. That's why there's a difference here, I think. Here we say directly to the individual: You must now go out on this patrol in Helmand with the risk of you dying. There I just think that such people can expect very broad support. And where I think this two-thirds majority or qualified majority may be relevant, that's what I said in my rapporteur's speech, is that it will make sure that you get this broad foundation and this open debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209150335	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211209150348	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 10 December 2021, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
