ParlaMint-DK_20211005115924	Your Majesty and Your Royal Highnesses. Only war and corona have been able to disrupt freedom and the rule of the people in Denmark. Now we can breathe free again; both freedom and the rule of the people are fully restored. We did well through the pandemic, not least thanks to the citizens' basic trust in the authorities, which has led us to test and vaccinate, and that culture of trust is unique and deeply rooted in the Danish culture of association and information. For the rule of the people is not the same as that of politicians. We always have to remember that. People's rule is, in particular, that enlightened citizens in mutual trust can settle their own affairs and see themselves as part of something greater. That was exactly what Grundtvig wanted with his high school idea, and it was the same Grundtvig, who, 170 years ago, in 1851, asked The Tinget to remember · and I quote that the people's eyes rest on us and he asked that the elected representatives should have the power, wisdom and blessing of God to bear this responsibility. Perhaps that was also what happened to the big settlement on agriculture and climate yesterday. Today, it is I who, as the longest-seated member of parliament, does not open Parliament on the first Tuesday of October to meet the requirements of the Constitution. According to the Constitution we shall meet on this day and hear the Prime Minister's statement on the general position of the kingdom and the measures envisaged by the government as it says. According to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I have to open the Things and get it set, i.e.: chair the election of the Bureau and Secretaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20211005120135	President. - The debate is closed. Henrik Dam Kristensen. If no one requests a vote, I shall consider the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211005120146	For the first Vice-President, the Left Group has appointed Mrs Karen Ellemann. For the second Vice-President, the Danish People's Party has appointed Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. To the third Vice-President, the Socialist People's Party has appointed Mrs Trine Torp. And to the fourth Vice-President, the Radical Left Group has appointed Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211005120206	According to the electoral federations and the group's recommendation, the following members were elected: Annette Lind (S), Christian Juhl (EL), Erling Bonnesen (V) and Bent Bøgsted (DF). Then things are set and I would ask the President to take his chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20211005120238	I would like to thank the colleagues for the election of the President of the Folketing. I think it is an honour to have the opportunity to carry out this task in a second session, and I must do my utmost to live up to the confidence that has been shown to me here. My point of reference will be to ensure that the legislative work is carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and in my chair I would like to stress the need to give everyone proper but also fair treatment. Today we can open the Folketing in just as festive a framework as before the pandemic hit Denmark. In fact, I think that makes the day particularly pleasant. The Wandering Hall can now again rehearse the voices of visiting groups who are on a tour of the Folketing. That is the way it should be in an open parliament. That is one of the things I think we have really lacked. Also on the cultural night we can again look up the doors for the many who come to experience politicians and Christiansborg at the very nearest team. It's nice that we can meet again face-to-face with our guests after we've seen each other too much through a computer screen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211005120400	It is my pleasure to welcome our guests here today. Welcome to Her Majesty the Queen, to Hans Royal Highness the Crown Prince, to Her Royal Highness the Crown Princess and to Her Royal Highness Princess Benedikte. Also a warm welcome to the representatives of the Supreme Court and to the Mayor of Copenhagen. Last but not least welcome to the representatives of the autonomous authorities in Greenland and to the Home Government authorities in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20211005120429	I shall then give the floor to the Prime Minister so that she can give the statement provided for in the Constitution on the general position of the Kingdom and the measures envisaged by the Government. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211005120444	Imagine a future in Denmark where the air is completely clean: the feeling of breathing deep and safe, cities with green areas, gardens on the roofs, creeping plants up the facades, electric cars that are affordable and where the family can drive on vacation without any trouble loading it up. Imagine, too, that the trip in the electric car goes through a landscape with more nature, wildlife and plant life: black woodpeckers, wild orchids and forget-me-nots and bogs and heaths. It crawls and crawls, it blooms and grows. And at home in the families, around the dinner table, we eat more green, more local and after the seasons. And Danish agriculture has become the world's most sustainable with the latest technologies, more plant-based production and more ecology. The goods we collect from the rest of the world are transported on ships that no longer sail on oil, but on green fuels, and our Danish industry gets energy from Danish energy islands and biogas from agriculture. And even more than today are working to produce green solutions for the whole world. Does that sound a little crazy? Maybe a little, but we're and here I'll make a quote: "Climate politics must not become politics of fear." Who said that? Mrs Mai Villadsen did so at the Government's conference in Fredericia on the future of Denmark. And that is true: we must not let fear lead us, but hope. Our future must be green and the air clean. And I guess it's gonna cost power, decisions, investments, new habits, and courage. But the alternative to let the climate crisis run out of control is not an option. Man-made climate change already affects the whole world today: floods, droughts, tropical storms. And it's not an option to just keep going. We're in the process of destroying our own planet. And we humans need to see ourselves as part of nature: the animals, the plants, the air and the water are nothing outside ourselves. They're part of our own existence. The climate crisis is so severe that even when we do all this in Denmark, we phase out gas and oil production, build the world's first energy islands, recycle more waste, convert road transport, make agriculture more sustainable, introduce a uniform CO2 Denmark has one of the world's most ambitious climate targets, and in almost two years we have reached almost half the way. But with the latest UN report it is brutally clear: we must do even more concrete action this year, next year and the following year. We will combine high green ambitions with good jobs and with continued consideration for those in our society who have the least. This is the Danish strategy: an ambitious green transition carried by a broad popular anchoring, where we also make the decisions that are needed in the world. Denmark is a green pioneer country, and we must influence the countries that emit the most. That is our opportunity, and that is our commitment. We are faced with an important autumn in international climate policy, which is why we are actively conducting climate diplomacy. Now it is soon COP26 in Glasgow, UK. We need the global climate ambition level to come up. Denmark has already stopped oil and gas extraction by 2050. The other countries must now also free themselves of coal, oil and gas. I am proud of what Denmark and Danish companies make internationally concrete technical solutions, strong green partnerships. This applies to South Korea, one of the world's fastest growing economies. And think, when India, a country with over 1.3 billion inhabitants, decided to boost the green transition, which country of all countries around the world chose India to enter into a green strategic partnership with? They chose Denmark. In a few days' time, I'm going to India to meet Prime Minister Modi. Denmark has the solutions, and India has the scale. This is important for the climate, for Danish business, for our economy and in a greater perspective for the geopolitical balance. In a short time, we have strengthened our relationship with the world's largest democracy. Denmark has a long and proud tradition of taking responsibility in the world. We are still fully dedicated to this, first and foremost in the European Union. We must now get the whole of Europe out of the crisis by investing in green conversion, digitalisation, new jobs. More than half of the funds in the EU's Recovery Fund are targeted at the green and digital. It is pointing forward and it provides a good foundation for building a both better and stronger Europe than what we came from. Denmark is a small country with many opportunities and a great responsibility. Climate change is not least clear in the Arctic: new dangers, new opportunities, including security policy. Russia's behaviour in the Arctic has become more marked and we must keep an eye on China's interests in the region. That is why I am pleased that we are now seeing a greater and stronger commitment from the United States, Europe's most important ally. Denmark works closely with Greenland and the Faroe Islands on the basis of a common goal of low voltage. At the same time, we must protect ourselves, for example. against cyber-espionage. This requires vigilance and capacity building. I am pleased that our three countries have agreed to establish a permanent joint Danish, Faroese and Greenlandic contact committee at government level. We must be in even closer dialogue on defence policy, security policy and foreign policy. Greenland and the Faroe Islands have now gained a more prominent role in the Arctic Council. I find that quite natural. And last week and this week I have had follow-up discussions with the Layerman and with the President of the Naala Suisut. We have just signed the mandate for the work we have started. Both of you are here in this Chamber. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank you for both good and constructive cooperation. I would also like to thank you for the good cooperation with the North Atlantic mandates here in the Folketing. The government appreciates that very much. Everywhere in Denmark we meet again on a cross and cross. Hands are given again, hugs are handed out, everyday life is left with juice and with power and energy and with joy and where it suits us. We got through the crisis convincingly well. Foreigners visiting Denmark send amazing stories home: no muzzles, no restrictions, but parties, big concerts and major conferences. As more people are being vaccinated both at home and abroad, we can now and of course within the applicable Danish travel rules say it loudly to both tourists and business travellers: Come to Denmark if you want to experience everyday life again. Denmark is ready for the future. Imagine that unemployment is now lower in Denmark than it was before the crisis. Employment is a record-breaker. Growth is expected to be the highest in 15 years, not for 5 years, not for 10 years, but for 15 years. And I am glad that the government and a majority of this Parliament stood firm. For while there were discussions and disagreements along the way, it is now beyond doubt: it was responsible to borrow, it was responsible to invest us through the crisis and it was right to conduct an expansive and active crisis policy. I would like to say to the business community and to the trade union movement: you have confirmed that you are a strong and responsible part of Danish society. Denmark is based on solid and well-managed companies. We need to address the problems you are currently having with getting the employees you need. The government, the social partners and the KL are in the process of negotiating a tripartite agreement on this very subject. The lack of labour must not slow us down. That's why more Danes are going to work. That's the only way we're gonna be better, greener and richer. It is said that one should never let a good crisis go to waste. I admit that I have always had some difficulty with that saying, because we have seen before how the political crisis management left a bill with those who had the most difficulty paying it, greater inequality at a time of high unemployment, unfair reforms. It's not like that this time. We still need to be aware of the consequences of the corona: loneliness; lost learning; a cultural life that in some places remains difficult. But now we must not let a potential boom go to waste. I am convinced that, in our society, we need to discuss more broadly the fundamental issues of where we want to go and how we can resolve the major problems that have been unresolved for too long. This is particularly true in relation to those too many people who do not have a job that has never got a foothold in our labour market and who are outside the Community. It has been wrong for many decades and is even more so now that we really need everyone. Last month, the government presented the play-out • Denmark can do more; a reform that is both financially responsible and socially fair and that must first and foremost get more Danes into work. Too many, especially women with a non-western background, go home on passive support. It is wrong for them, for their children and for Denmark. That is why we want to introduce a new 37-hour working logic in which one has a duty to work, contribute and benefit if one receives a benefit from the community. If we are to solve the major structural problems in our society, it is not done with one reform; we have only just begun. Denmark can do more. The government has presented our idea of ten progress for the next 10 years. I have no doubt that it will require a long, tough move and perseverance. That is why we are presenting several proposals for reform in the coming year. Today, I want to focus on three challenges. Firstly, there is Denmark's responsibility for the green transition with which I started my speech. Secondly, there are the training courses and I will come to that in a moment. Thirdly, there is the coherence of our country, the need to curb centralisation, strengthen proximity and make the big cities better to live in. Recently I had the opportunity to visit a good Danish company, Polytech in Bramming. They produce protection for wind turbine wings. Polytech is doing so well and now hold fast that almost six out of ten of the world's wind turbines from Shanghai to California carry the Danish product. There is progress that is being hired new people, if they are to get, and that may be difficult. On that day in Bramming this led to a good talk about why young people go to high school and too few choose vocational school. The director, Mads Kirkegaard, is a craftsman himself, and he goes to schools and tells how important it is to choose a professional education. But in reality we need to get to the parents, he said, because they may be the ones who sometimes suffer from the fact that it is finer to go to high school and it rubs off on young people. This leads me to the next major theme I want to talk about today, namely education. The Danes' way through the education system is a huge success. Denmark is poor on raw materials, we make a living from being skilled. But the question is whether we are training too little for the future and too much for the past. Because when we need to navigate in a future of robots, artificial intelligence, digital revolution, global vision and green transition, and at the same time need more presence and community, what demands does it make on our education? I and we would like to invite you to that debate. We need skilled researchers, green technologies, medicines, vaccines and knowledge about our history and society and our culture. Knowledge is fundamental progress and it is a big step forward that thousands of young people today are studying at a Danish university. Once upon a time it was a closed country for most, today an open road for the many. But that also means, of course, that where education used to be for the few who typically had to teach or research, many more highly educated people today have to work in private companies. How do we train for a society in 10 years and in 20 years? Many of the small and medium-sized enterprises are not used to employing academics, yes, maybe engineers, but not so many others and many academics are not used to working there. It makes demands on everyone and, I believe, on innovation. This is also true in relation to primary school. Nearly one out of every six students leaves school without the ability to read and write and count. There are thousands of sweet, smart, lovely children and young people every year who do not get the foundation they need. I was told the following story by a relieved father of a boy in one of the primary school's oldest classes: After a deeply worrying announcement of how things were going at school, the father arranged for the son to enter a company one day a week. The boy, who was more than hard to get to school, now jumped happily on the bus at 8:00. 6:00 in the morning to get to work. Work clothes and community gave him a new identity. The new energy began to rub off on homework. Now he could see what they were for. And the story actually gets even better, because it ends up with the company offering the boy an apprenticeship. So that's a purely sunshine story? The father's point to me was actually another, namely that it should never be based on parental or pupil responsibility, but above all must be the responsibility of society. What about all those school-tired boys and girls who don't have a father with the right contacts? I agree. I think we need a greater interaction between education and work throughout our education system. This applies to the school-tired 14-year-old boy in the 8th grade, who can learn much more if he is allowed to change school with a real workplace, we must say one day or two a week and wider than that: What, for example, if we are to change the school with a real place of work, we must say one day or two a week. Is the electrical and engineering industry much closer together, clothing and design, carpenter and architect? At the Royal Academy, which also includes the architectural study, only about 16 students per year have been admitted over the past 10 years on a different basis from a secondary background. This will now be changed with a new two-year Master's degree programme for building designers, where several have a skilled background. I think it's exciting. I think we need to move on that way. Today, as a society, we spend billions of dollars on the education we take first in life. We spend far fewer crowns and ears on the adult and further educations we get later in life. Almost half of the 20-24-year-olds are in education. For those of us who are 40 years old, it's only 1%. Why do we continue to think education as something to be done at the beginning of life when we know that many of us are going to be longer in the labour market, even a labour market in rapid development? It is a perfectly clear objective for the government that more people should work, but the training courses are an important part of it, and therefore we also have to ask ourselves whether the quality of our courses is good enough both for the long and for the short courses. There aren't many lessons in a part of our important educations, and is there a need for more teaching, more feedback from the teacher, that is, real teaching? We, some of us, have already set aside almost a billion. kr. extra for primary school, raised upper secondary education, removed the priority contribution and abolished the education ceiling, and on top of that we are now proposing to invest 2.5 billion. kr. extra a year. It's the biggest extra investment in education as long as I can remember. We need the money wisely, and this time we propose to involve students, students, teachers, trade union movement and the business community directly and, of course, those parties in the Folketing who take responsibility for the funding. You will have to be a priority and thus also help to opt out, so that this time investment solves the long-term and structural challenges. We started the necessary dialogue with a meeting at Marienborg the other day, and thanks to you who were with us and contributed. Mille Borgen Mikkelsen, chairman of Danske Skolelever, hit the day in a really, really fine way by saying briefly and accurately: "All students must be allowed to be a success. ▪ In many places in Denmark I experience a new courage, a strong will to create development and very much optimism, and I am not a second in doubt that Denmark can do more. However, it requires greater openness and we must be able to see some of the old issues in a new light. This applies to the government, and that applies to the Folketing. The time has come to ask ourselves how we have been able to agree on the recognition of major problems for many years, yes, for decades, without resolving them. Time and again I think we are experiencing an unfortunate spiral of individual cases and hasty legislation that steals attention from what we are here for, namely to solve real problems for real people. I wonder if any of you recognize the picture. Firstly, the government will present a legislative programme for the new parliamentary year, which is less extensive than usual. Our hope is less hasty legislation, rather less, but, on the other hand, better drafted legislative proposals, and not least more time for all of you out there, who are going to make the legislative proposals work for citizens and for businesses, not to be overturned by the lawmill. Secondly, we propose to prioritise the implementation of the legislation in a much more visible way. You are all familiar with it: a good text of agreement in this House contains sections on the legislative process and on the economy, but there should also be a section in the future on how we actually carry it out, how we get it implemented, ensuring that it works. Thirdly, the democratic conversation in Denmark needs new vitamins. It's too fragmented, too superficial, and it's probably too hard. We all know it, especially on social media. We need as a country and as a people to create space for more reflection and for reflection, and therefore we also need increased attention to those parts of society that can bear the thoughtfulness with us, that is, those places in our society that give us the opportunity to live into other people's lives, and thus the nerve to understand both ourselves and the world better, art and culture. We need Danish art and culture to challenge us, create the framework for our common memory, connect our history, our present and our common future and impart meaning and understanding, wonder and curiosity and education. For that is what each of us must strive for, that is, to become spiritually stronger, to understand better, to know more and to become more robust as citizens. Here we need literature, music, visual arts, drama and film, and the framework for the necessary democratic conversation must be set by ourselves, not by multinational companies. That is why we need a common European regulation of the tech giants, and we need national public service with both quality and versatility. In a world and in a time of division and polarisation, we in Denmark must insist on choosing the opposite: our community. Denmark must be linked with good opportunities, both in the countryside and in the cities. That is the third major theme of my speech today. Copenhagen is a great capital city. It is a beautiful city, where towers and sprouts rise above the old houses of the bridge neighbourhoods, where the renewal of the town has given way to green farms; in recent years development along the harbour; new bicycle bridges; new districts on the holmen. And first of all, the capital is its population, namely the people who live here, the Copenhageners, who jump in the water all year round, and who cycle the streets thin in both sunshine and sleet. Denmark's capital is a city where people actually both live and live. That's good. And when you look around the world, it's by no means a matter of course. However, there is one problem, a major problem: many can no longer afford to live in the capital of all of us. How much is a three-bedroom apartment on Nørrebro today? Often more than 4 million. kr., maybe more than 5 million. kr. Who can afford that? What about the school teacher, the teacher, the police officer, the sosu assistant, the one who works in the store, the hairdresser, the carpenter or the newly trained academic? If they're first-time buyers, it's hard, really hard. Try to hear what a dedicated Copenhagener has written about the city as it once was: "Of course there was a difference between living in the South Harbour and at Frederiksberg Allé, but in very large parts of the 70s Copenhagen lived people of all types and from all social groups in fertile confusion between each other: At the same time, academics, clerks and strangely transparent existences (which first began to move at night, and no one really knew what lived on)...·. It is the poet Søren Ulrik Thomsen, who longs back to his youth's mixed neighborhood. I can follow it, even as a North Jyde. When I grew up in Aalborg in the 1980s, we lived together, too. I played with, went to school, and shared neighborhoods with children from many different families. I don't think many of you can remember it and recognize the picture. Living dies around the door and rising up gives an understanding of other people's conditions. But today we live much more apart. Some call it globalisation, urbanisation, and it gets such a sound from something we can't do anything about a natural force that is impossible to stop. In fact, I see it as one of my most important tasks as Prime Minister to oppose that thinking, whether it is increasing inequality, a labour market that is unfortunately less organised, or that centralisation is just something we have to accept. We will soon be presenting a new housing initiative, an ambitious housing initiative. Basically, of course, families with normal incomes must have the opportunity to live in the city. A lot is already being built in these years, including more general housing, but we need even more housing that is affordable. Therefore, the government will make it possible to build more than 20,000 more general dwellings over the next 10-15 years. Most will be built in the larger cities. In Greater Copenhagen alone, our upcoming housing project can lead to a threefold increase in the construction of general housing. It is three times as many newly built family homes in Copenhagen • typically of 80-90 m2 with a rent of about 8,000 DKK. a month. It will be visible and felt in the city picture. We're not gonna split up. The city's gonna hold us all. We suggest taking the old quality from old Copenhagen • the architectural value where we combine solid craftsmanship with quality. Our proposal is therefore to allow the new generation of talented architects to continue the strong Danish tradition and build and draw for people, so housing is both good to live in and beautiful to look at. I am proud of our country, and we need all regions of Denmark. Therefore, it is also sad to see when parts of the country have been emptied of important functions. There are closed educations, police stations, and shops in an evil spiral. The strong centralisation in Denmark has not only been implicitly accepted. Unfortunately, it is also the result of past political decisions. We still have a strong welfare society, and there is so much that succeeds every day, but there are also some noticeable challenges. There is a lack of time for care and relations, and far too many public employees find that there is no time for their professionalism. Just ask in the Criminal Services where there is really a need for a boost and a new direction; there are hospital departments where our employees run too fast; there are older people in Denmark who do not have a dignified old age and there are children who do not have enough adult contact. For too many years we have left the mantra of efficiency improvements and optimization almost the most important thing, but we have begun to reverse that trend. Since the change of government, there has been a significant increase in funding, both for children, for the elderly, for education and for health, by agreement, but that is clearly not enough. Some deeper changes are needed. We will therefore propose a welfare law to ensure that the money comes with when, fortunately, there are both older and more children. There must be money both for time and for more colleagues. This applies to children, to the elderly, and to health. Several colleagues are important, but that is not enough either, because we also need to ensure more time for the core task, for the birth of the baby, for the care of the elderly affected by dementia; for the relationship, for the child. That is why we need to free up more time. We must move away from processes, governance and paperwork for the benefit of the citizen. Today, a nurse employed in a municipality is not allowed to give two aspirins to an elderly man if he has a sore head. It's excuse me for lack of common sense. It's time that's spent on the wrong thing. It's management instead of management. We need a close health service where there are no patients who are lost between hospital and municipality, where we trust the professional skills of the employees and provide more resources for more colleagues, so there are enough colleagues for the tasks that actually need to be solved. But it takes some of us in here. This requires that we give priority to the everyday life of the Danes and to our common welfare society instead of tax relief. This requires us to take significant and new steps in the reform of proximity and to allow for the most important priority to be given to other tasks, and for this reason other tasks must fall away. We must also ensure more opportunities in the province, not as a conflict between the country and the city, because centralisation affects us all. There are also citizens in the western part of Copenhagen who lack the local police and who, moreover, face the challenges of medical coverage. More needs to be done, and we are fortunately in the process of relocating education so that more young people can stay. There are tax centres with local jobs and better opportunity to finally borrow where the accommodation you would like to own is actually located. There's been 20 new local police stations. I was allowed to join you just before the local police in Struer opened their station, and the new local policemen walked around the streets and interrogated themselves and asked: What are you doing? It makes really good sense. And as the owner of Limfjorden's Ishus said, it gives a certain degree of security. It is good for shops with the local police, it makes it safe for our elderly, and it is preventative for young people who are at risk of becoming involved in crime. Of course, it should be good to be young in all parts of Denmark, in the big city, in the province and in the countryside, and therefore it is also the government's proposal that we should have more upper secondary education closer to where the young people actually grow up. The next thing we will address is health. In the years to come, super hospitals are aware of the whole country with highly specialised cancer treatment and heart surgery. It's common sense, it's going to save lives; it was a real decision. At the same time, however, we can see that close health care has been neglected, and this is quite serious in a situation where we are becoming more with chronic diseases, more with mental disorders and more elderly people. Today there are many elderly people who have many long trips to the hospital, perhaps to have a blood test one day, to come to an interview another day and to X-ray a third day. It's all important, but it's also difficult, yes, sometimes actually quite incalculable. As a new feature, we therefore propose to set up close hospitals where municipalities, regions and general practitioners can work more closely together on the individual patient; it will be safe. We will also address the problem that too many Danes do not have access to their own general practitioner, and then, of course, there must be access to rapid emergency care in all parts of Denmark. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that the epidemic control has continued to pay the full attention of the authorities, because if the corona runs away from us, much else can quickly go back into the background. Denmark is a long way in vaccination efforts thanks to the support of the Danes. We need even more, because it is the vaccines that are our superweapon, and here too we must take international responsibility. We have doubled Denmark's donation of vaccines to the Third World. A total of 6 million is now given instead of 3 million. We won't be safe until everyone's safe. I started my speech today by talking about Denmark's responsibility for the international climate crisis. I will conclude my speech in another and important area, where Denmark must also take a great responsibility. This is an area which the situation in Afghanistan has made unhappy: girls and women's rights. And developments are deeply worrying. I fear that the Afghan girls and women will slowly, but surely, replace free life at the university and on the football field with the dark prison of the burka. Denmark will do everything we can to help the hard-tried Afghan people, together with our allies and via the EU, humanitarianly to help more and to avoid a refugee crisis such as that of 2015. However, it is not only in Afghanistan that girls and women's rights are brutally trampled underfoot. More and more places we see the progress and equality achieved by women being withdrawn. This applies to education and to free abortion. Women's right to decide for themselves over our bodies and decide when Denmark and Europe have an obligation to react and insist that the EU is also a cooperation between countries with common and clear values. Unfortunately, violations of fundamental rights are also happening at home. In some religious environments and in some immigrant environments, many girls and women are fighting for the freedom to live the life they want to live. I think they fight too much alone. As a society, we must take character and stand firm that our common values of equality and freedom must apply to everyone in Denmark. Our proposal is therefore that we set up a Commission for Girls and Women's Rights and Freedom. Every girl and woman in Denmark must live without violence and without social control, have freedom and the right to always choose her own spouse, always have the right to work and always have the right to an independent income, rights and freedom, no matter where you and your family come from. Here we want Denmark to be a pioneering country. Finally, I would particularly like to thank the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten for their good cooperation over more than two years now with collegiate confidentiality and political impatience. Together we have set a new direction for Denmark. And thank you to all those in this Chamber who contribute to broad cooperation. You jointly take responsibility for both prosperity and stability. Today, I would like to invite you to a broad dialogue on future reforms. We need more people in work, Denmark must take even greater responsibility for the climate crisis, and we must ensure education for more and for the future, housing that is actually affordable, a health service closer to and freedom and equal value for everyone in Denmark. Denmark is a great country, but Denmark can do more. Denmark live!
ParlaMint-DK_20211005124639	Thank you, Prime Minister. As you know, the statement will be debated on Thursday, 7 October 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20211005124650	Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen): Bill no. L 1 (Proposal for a Finance Act for the financial year 2022) and Bill No. L 2 (Proposal for a Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for State, local and regional authorities for the financial year 2025). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20211005124705	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 6 October 2021, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
