ParlaMint-DK_20210210130004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly (Astrid Krag): Bill no. L 157 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Social Investment Fund. Transport Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 158 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law amending the Road Traffic Code and the Law on the Approval and Survey of Vehicles. Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen): Bill No. L 159 (Proposal for a law on MitID and NemLog-in) and Bill No. L 160 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the re-use of public sector information. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 161 (Proposal for a law amending the law on equations and the law on gambling). and the reimbursement of the covid-19 aid and the reduction of the percentage of the special contribution to horse racing). Bill No. L 166 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the temporary postponement of declaration and payment periods, etc.) in the field of taxation in the context of covid-19, the law on interest-free loans corresponding to reported A-tax and labour market contributions in connection with covid-19 and the law on interest-free loans corresponding to declared VAT and payroll tax and accelerated payment of tax credits, etc. in connection with the covid-19. Domestic and Housing Minister (Kaare Dybvad Bek): Bill no. L 162 (Proposal for a law amending the law on rental, the law on rental of general dwellings and the law on rental. Employment Minister (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 163 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Temporary Family Allowances of Certain Parents). Bill No. L 164 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the administration and administration of holiday allowances receivable and various other laws. Bill No. L 165 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 152 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to deprive gang criminals of the right to public benefits). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 153 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the total ban on demersal fishing with beam trawls in the Skagerrak and the North Sea). Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen (V) et al.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 154 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the launching of experiments on a four-year open village scheme). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, will be answered in writing. 16 to the Minister for Development Cooperation by Ulla Tørnæ is deleted from the agenda. The question shall be put to oral reply on Wednesday 24 February 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130213	The first question is to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly by Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130224	What is the Minister's view that section 109 of the Service Act ensures that women who are subjected to violence can receive help for both themselves and their children, but that men in the same situation are not mentioned with a single word in the paragraph?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130245	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130249	Thank you to the questioner for that question. This is the case, as the questioner refers to the fact that section 109 of the Services Act and the assistance in the women's crisis centres are reserved for women in the target group, while men exposed to violence in close relationships may reside on section 110 offers covering both shelters and man crisis centres. In contrast to women's crisis centres, according to Section 110 of the Service Act, housing is aimed at a different and wider target group than women affected by violence, and today there is no knowledge of how many men are exposed to violence in close relationships on a section 110 offer. There is therefore a need to strengthen our knowledge base on the target audience. Unfortunately, the author's party is not included in the latest agreement on the implementation of the reserve, which we, together with the rest of the Danish Parliament, entered into in the autumn, but here we recognised the need to learn more about the needs of men affected by violence. Therefore, with the reserve, we have set aside funds to carry out first a study of men exposed to violence in men's crisis centres and in section 110 offers and then, during a trial period, to offer psychological assistance to the target group and their possible accompanying children, as well as the psychological assistance to which women and children are entitled in women's crisis centres. I would like to stress that, when we have a women's crisis centre provision that we have today, it is part of history that there is a gender battle side when it comes to violence in close relationships. Women fill much more in the statistics of violence. Talks about violence in close relationships show that more women are exposed to physical partner violence and that it is most often women who experience the most serious violence. Women also fill much more in statistics on partner killings. At the same time, I recognise that men too are exposed to violence in close relationships, and it goes without saying that all people, regardless of gender, must be able to live without violence. That is why I also welcome the fact that all the parties of the Folketing, with the exception of the New Citizens' Party with the reserve, agreed that we should learn more about men being subjected to violence in close relationships and try psychological help for the target group. This is an essential first step in the consideration of the future design of the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130457	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130459	Thank you for your answer. It became a very long Christiansborg reply from the Minister. And it is true that men are part of section 110 of the Service Act, as it applies to both sexes, but § 109 does not. It applies only to women. Thus, men are significantly worse off than women when they experience similar threats, violence or abuse in family or social relationships. The municipality has a special duty to consult women; this does not apply to men. Children and women are provided with care and support; men do not have the same right for their children. Women are entitled to 10 hours of psychotherapy; men do not. Does the Minister really believe that this is equality, and can the Minister mention areas of legislation where men have special rights that women do not have?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130553	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130556	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to say that, to me, it was not a Christiansborg response. On the contrary, it was an answer that was quite out there, where the victim of violence can seek help on a section 109 offer and section 110 offer, and where we agreed for 2, yes, soon 3 months ago that the access to psychological care and also access to help for children on section 109 offers must be tested on section 110 offers, so that we can learn more about what kind of target group there is and how many of the men who are looking for section 110 offers are really violent. It wasn't Christiansborg talk. It was very, very concrete out there with the people this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130640-2	I know that the Minister is very concerned about the fact that more women than men are subjected to physical partner violence. However, from 2005 to 2017, the number of men has almost tripled, while it has been more stable for women. And for me, it is therefore not very important who is particularly exposed to physical partner violence. For me, the most important thing is that both sexes get the same help. It is actually a little of an answer to what the Minister said earlier in relation to this clarification about §110. But if we use the Minister's logic, does the Minister also think that boys with adhd should have more rights than girls because there are most boys with adhd, for example?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130726	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130727	I think the questioner himself knows very well that I have not stood here arguing for anything in number. Otherwise, the questioner has at least listened badly. But it was a very clever rhetorical grip. When we look at the knowledge we have about violence and sexual abuse, when we look at the knowledge we have about types of killing in Denmark, when we look at the degree of seriousness, i.e. how serious the violence is and what it is about a type of violence that is most likely to be exposed to when we talk about domestic violence and violence in close relationships, we can see that it is women who are exposed to the harsher violence. It is women who are at increased risk of being killed by their partners. That is why I am not here talking about numbers, but I am talking about the fact that there is a gender battle in the violence. There are, too, in relation to men. It's just not in your own home that there's a battle side here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130812	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130814	Thank you for your answer. This, of course, confirms my point, and in fact it also confirms the need for Article 109 of the Services Act to be amended so that men who are subjected to violence can receive help both to themselves and to their children, just as women can, on exactly the same terms, in exactly the same paragraph. Does the Minister agree that equality in this area can very easily be achieved by changing quite a few words in section 109 of the Services Act? And what is needed if the Minister is to help ensure real equality in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130854	Thank you. What the questioner is calling for is what the other parties in the Folketing have set in motion, namely that we get knowledge of what it is at all for a target group that is for § 110. If we are to be able to do the equality that the questioner is asking for within section 110 and not to make sure to offer these things under section 110, then we need to know what kind of target group we are dealing with. I think the questioner will agree with this when it comes to compensating the municipalities financially for this. Therefore, it is the right place to start as the parties of the Danish Parliament have widely made it possible to find the target group when it comes to section 110 and the men affected by violence, and then make us experience with psychological help. It was also an experimental scheme in relation to women and section 109 before it was introduced. So we're doing the right order here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210130940	Thank you. I will ask the questioner to spritze the table off, so it is ready for the next questioner. Thank you. The next question is also for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and that is by Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131000	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131007	What will the Minister, who is also responsible for part of family policy in Denmark, do to make it more attractive for Danes to have children so that we can mitigate the decline in population growth which, according to EU statistics, is on the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131023	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131025	Thank you. The question from the questioner is based on an article describing that the birth rate has fallen in several European countries during the Coronapandemic. The article refers to the uncertainty about jobs and the economy experienced by many during the crisis. Denmark is not specifically mentioned in this regard, but it is pointed out that at home we experienced a fall in birth rates during the financial crisis. I understand that there may be some who, in times of crisis, stop and perhaps delay the increase in the family, and when the financial crisis and the pandemic that we are in the midst of can lead to uncertainty about one's own life situation, we, as politicians, must step in and help where we can. It is important for the government to hold hands under Danish jobs, Danish employees in this time. Therefore, the government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing shortly before Christmas, concluded a large agreement on the reopening of the compensation arrangements that we also originally took responsibility for having made about, among other things. compensation for loss of turnover, fixed costs. In January, the government concluded an agreement with the social partners to extend the wage compensation scheme. Purpose: to avoid the dismissal of employees. Some 19 billion have already been paid out in compensation for wages and assistance to self-employed people alone. kr. Only yesterday, a broad majority in the Folketing presented a new agreement on further measures totalling 9 billion. kr. to hold hands stronger under Danish self-employed, companies and employees. Nor should there be any doubt that the government generally puts welfare first. We have given priority from the outset to strengthening the welfare society, and this also applies to the families of children, because we know how the strong welfare society provides freedom and provides a framework for our everyday life: that, as future parents, you can be confident that the smallest are cared for in good nurseries and nursery schools and the larger go to school, and that our young people can train, but also that there is a solid safety net that grabs those who are challenged. So I certainly believe that we in the government are preoccupied with securing exactly the framework that allows children to be born with peace of mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131225	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131227	Thank you for your answer, which in many ways was very interesting, because the Minister answers that you look at the general framework; you try to create economic security with various corona packages, etc., and you try to maintain a general level of welfare. So the Minister does not mention families at all. I think that is very, very interesting, and that is why I have asked the question. For the family, the alleralds are the most important in the life of the individual, but also in the individual country. The family is the unit that creates the people who make up the country, the nation, the community, and therefore it is of course extremely important to ensure that families also want to continue to exist, that is. brings children into the world. But apparently the government doesn't have a family policy at all. In other words, when one can only refer to general economic policy and general welfare policy, it sounds as if there is simply no family policy at all, and I could actually have a little sense of that in advance. For example: I was also called from the Ministry because I had to make it clear that I actually wanted to put this question to both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Children and Education today, because it seems that there is some doubt as to where family policy is. It is, of course, very symptomatic of the government that it is evident that it does not have a clear picture of the need for a family policy. In the big world, there are countries that actually have family policy and that have different things that are aimed at individual families, so that they hope to have more children, and in some places it seems to be successful. Will the government not do anything in this area here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131434	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131436	Thank you. I do not know what specific measures Mrs Krarup is referring to should be taken in other countries, which is why it is also difficult for me to stand here and say categorically yes or no. But I would just like to say that there is no such thing as an extravagance of the speech. When I point out that to hold hands under our economy through a crisis, to hold hands under employees and, at the same time, to ensure a well-being society with good day care institutions, good primary schools, education for children and young people, then it is some of the framework conditions that are absolutely crucial to having a good and safe family life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131511	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131512	There is nothing wrong with having good framework conditions. That is absolutely right, but there is something wrong in not recognising that the family is the most important unit in our country at all, and there is something wrong in not having a policy specifically aimed at that unit being well and able to bring more children into the world, and that can make it more attractive. Given that the Minister does not know about the things that are going on in the world where you actually have family policies, is it not a good idea for the government to set up a job, where you then acquire knowledge of what you are doing in the world, when it now seems that we have the same problems with falling children's numbers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131550	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131552	The questioner then has at least knowledge which I do not have about the current figures for children in Denmark. As I understand it in the article, the figure from other European countries is, and what we know from Denmark is what happened in the wake of the financial crisis, where there was too little ability to hold hands under the basic safety of employees, and that for too many years there was a policy of saving which was felt in the core welfare that is so crucial for our families with children, both the prospective parents in terms of preparation for birth, the maternity paths and everything that is going on in the debate now, but also in everyday life with good day care institutions, proper public schools, etc. So I firmly believe that we are pursuing a policy in which we also recognise that the family is at the heart of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131638	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131638-2	I think the Minister is completely out of the question. In other words, it is not true that the government is pursuing a policy that puts the family at the heart of it. It is a policy to point out that it is a success criterion to force the removal of as many children as possible. It's deep, deeply unhappy. It's a subjugation of the importance of the family. Surely it should not be very difficult for a government with a great many officials to understand what it is that you are doing around other countries • other European countries, EU countries that actually have family policies, where you try to make it economically attractive to bring more children into the world in different ways. I would urge the government to do so and to have a family policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131720	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131721	But then perhaps we really came to the heart of the matter here. I have seen advertisements from the Danish People's Party saying: the family first. When we talk about the most vulnerable families, the most vulnerable children who grow up with parents who drink, abuse drugs, neglect them and can barely take care of themselves, and about children who grow up in insecurity with adults who neglect them, I think it is quite wrong to say: the family first. There's the child in his own right. There we may just disagree, just as we were when we abolished the right to rebuke and the Danish People's Party thought that the parents' right to beat their children in education was more important than the children's right to grow up without violence. I guess there's just a basic disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131757	Thank you, Minister. Thank you to the questioner. Could I ask Mrs Krarup to prepare for the next question? Thank you. The next question is also to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. That's by Mr. Keating. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131822	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131825	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister not consider that the children's play-out First is problematic in relation to the Convention on Human Rights when the action suggests that biological parents of children placed in care may lose any right to have their children back in custody, even if their parenting capacity is developing in a positive direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131849	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210131851	Thank you. I understand the question so that reference is made to the proposal in the motion for a resolution that the children first have to deal with permanent placements. There I have to say: no, I do not think that the proposal is problematic in relation to the Convention on Human Rights. The government has no intention of breaking the Convention on Human Rights, so of course the proposal is within the framework of the Convention. It is already the case today that a placement in specific cases can be continued, i.e. be made permanent even if the basis for an installation is no longer fulfilled. This means that the placement should not be re-examined on an ongoing basis. This shall apply where a child or a young person has been placed outside the home for at least three years and has obtained such a strong attachment to the location that it is essential for the best of the child or young person to remain at the place of placement. It shall be the children and young people's committee which shall decide on the continuation of placement on the recommendation of the administration. A number of requirements are made, including the inclusion of a children's study, a plan of action, an association assessment and the attitude of the child or young person towards the continuation of the placement. In addition, both parents and children with party status have the right to legal advice and to speak before the decision is taken. The government doesn't intend to change those terms. On the other hand, the government wants, firstly, to strengthen the quality of the affiliation assessments by requiring them to have been made by an authorised psychologist. Secondly, the government proposes to oblige the municipalities to assess whether a more permanent placement should be proposed when the placement has lasted for three consecutive years. Thirdly, we propose that children over 10 years of age who have been in custody for three years should be able to apply for permanent accommodation themselves. It is only to a very limited extent that the municipalities now apply the provision on continued placement. At the same time, we know that the vast majority of children placed for more than three years have been placed out of childhood. Therefore, there is a need to ensure that the placement can be switched to a more permanent character when there is a sufficiently strong connection between the child and the foster family that makes it the best for the child. This is the most important thing for us: that all children in this country are entitled to a safe family where they know they can count on adults and where they can take root safely.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132055	Thank you, Minister. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132057	Thank you. And thank you for the good and in-depth answer. Yeah, I'm actually referring to the playout • The kids First and passenger in it. We in the Left feel that we want to comply with the human rights conventions that we have signed up to, and we actually think that we are getting a little bit at odds with them. First of all, the right to family life and the family has been at the heart of Danish society for generations; here we are educating, educating and guiding. And some parents can have both short-term and long-term problems in caring for their children so that, unfortunately, children have to be removed from their families. It is therefore also good that we are constantly looking at this area and doing the work better. There are many good features in the playout here, among others. It is very good about this: we need to listen more to the child and that there must be an early effort, training and counselling, but it also contains elements which, in relation to the convention, may be on the verge of rights. What I am talking about is the words duration and particularly fragile, taken out of the assessments that are now when you choose to adopt or remove children from families. And that means, of course, if the proposal is adopted, as is the case here, that a five-year-old child can be given up for adoption, and then, during the 13 years that pass until the child is 18, the biological parents will not be able to bring their child home, even if the family or parents were actually in such a state that they could take care of their child. It seems to us that we take the hope from the family and take the hope from the children to come home to their parents. • The children's hope of being reunited with the family and the hope of having a family life where Mom and Dad can again share in the great community. For many of these parents, it's actually the case that some of what they really want is to bring their children home, and that's what they're trying to do. But this is taken away from the parents with the proposal that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132322	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132324	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would just like to sign for the Left's positive comments about the play-out •The children First of all, which is about the past and better to help the most vulnerable children in our society and, indeed, about giving children more rights and ensuring that it is the child's best that comes first in all matters. The words that came from the Left are very positive, and I look forward very much to the negotiations we are going to have. I would just like to say to reassure the author that, of course, our proposal remains within the contractual obligations we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132358	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132400	Thank you. On pages 15 and 16 of the motion here, that is, Amendment No. 5, one takes the assessment out of the equation permanently, which means that even if the parents would be able to take their children home during the period, because they got so much better that they could take care of their children or children, they would not be able to do so; that means the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132434	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132436	Thank you. Today, it is the case that it must be possible to make it possible that throughout the child's entire upbringing, parents will not be able to care for the child. We think this is a failure of those children. If a child is 2 years old, then it is 16 years in the future that the child must live with a basic uncertainty about his family, about his home: can I take root here? And that's why we want to make increased use of this. However, it is important to say that, as the rapporteur also knows, there is something in our proposal that is also about permanent placement and also about how biological parents can play a positive role in the child's life, even if they do not become resident parents because the child has a permanent placement. But in some cases, and it has to be in those cases where it is best for the child we believe that adoption should be in play, i.e. where it is not the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132516	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132518	But does the Minister not recognise that the power that may lie in parents trying to bring their children back home will be the power that will enable them to also be pulled out of abuse by some conditions that make them unable to care for their children right now? In any case, I am thinking of the fact that there is a force in wanting to do so and that it may be what makes you get out of your abuse because you really want to be the family on which this country is also built.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132550	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132553	We're going to have a thematic meeting, which, among other things, is... We need to deal with this and where we will have the opportunity to delve more into what kind of cases it is today, where adoption applies; what kind of cases it is today, when an adoption is on the verge and seems not to become an adoption, and where we by the government think it would have been better for the child, that it had become an adoption. I look forward to being able to elaborate on this to the rapporteur in a place where there is a little more time than these 30 seconds. After all, this is not something that should be used interchangeably. They are not children who, if they are not adopted, come home to their parents. In these cases, there are children who are placed and, of course, typically childhood and parents who are often barely able to take care of themselves. So it's just to say that it's still a small target group we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132636	Thank you. The next question is also from Mr. Stén Knuth and also to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132644	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132644-2	Thank you for that, President. Would the Minister comment on the last section of the note sent by the Institute for Human Rights to the Parliamentary Social and Home Affairs Committee, which is now called the Elders' Committee, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132709	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132711	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like to thank the questioner for drawing my attention to the Foundation's note on the human rights aspects of the handling of cases of adoption without consent. I would also like to thank you now for raising the right note, and it was here that the institute had prepared the note. Let me start by stating once again that the adoption proposal here in the children First is fully in line with the human rights convention. Nor in relation to adoption is it our intention to break the convention. So you can have complete peace of mind about that. There is no doubt that when it comes to such intrusive decisions as adoption without consent, we must be absolutely clear on the fundamental rights of the parties, both on the child's rights and also on the rights of the parents. In the memo, the Foundation concludes that Denmark is at risk of violating the right of children and parents to family life by removing the very special requirements to be met by a compulsory adoption, as opposed to a compulsory placement under the Service Act. The Foundation also writes that the proposed amendments to the adoption rules may appear as if any coercion could be replaced by an adoption without consent. I can only say that we are fully aware that adoption without consent must be carried out with caution. We must constantly be aware of the intrusive importance of a change in the family for the child and the parents. That is why we started our consideration of it by examining the practice of the Court of Human Rights in this area. The brief interpretation of this case-law is that adoption without consent can be carried out in accordance with the Convention, but that it presupposes exceptional circumstances and that the adoption is justified by serious considerations of the child's best interests. I have here quoted the Supreme Court in one of the few cases of adoption without consent on which the Supreme Court has ruled. I hardly have to say that the statements made by the Supreme Court are based on an in-depth analysis of the practice of the Court of Human Rights, and also that this is, of course, what our proposal is based on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132908	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210132910	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your reply. On 28 January, the Minister, in consultation with the undersigned, said that, of course, we clearly comply with international conventions on children. When I read the note here from the Institute for Human Rights, I see that they cast doubt on it. Well, they're writing now I'll try to see if I can find it here: the committee points out that in an assessment of what's the child's interest, the child's long-term development must be considered. This means that decisions on behalf of the child should be subject to review and adaptation over time rather than to a definitive and irrevocable nature. Then we are a little back on the previous question about duration. It is then the institute here that considers that we may not even be on the verge of that, but more than that, because we do not comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Can the Minister please make a few comments on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133017	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133020	Well, I'd love to, and if I had more time before, I would have said something more. I would just like to say that this is, after all, a matter of situations where parents are very poorly functioning and where they are unable to understand and act on the basic needs of a child. With regard to the Foundation's comments that any coercion could be replaced by an adoption without consent, I can say that it is quite simply wrong. We have also heard some of the statements that have been made that we would start to adopt children for adoption on the basis of depression in parents. I do not understand where the Institute can get that view. This cannot be because of temporary circumstances in a parent, nor simply because the foster family and the child want to. The conditions for adoption without consent will continue to be considerably stricter than those for placing a child outside the home without consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133105	Thank you. The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133106	Thank you for that, President, and thank you again for your reply. So, the Foundation has some considerations here, and I can hear that the Minister does not agree with those considerations. There are at least some differences in relation to what they have said about it, and the Minister does not agree with that. How will the Minister ensure that we get along, including with them, so that if it is the case that they are in a misapprehension, they will somehow get into a dialogue and so that we also agree on what we are doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133139	Thank you. Well, let me just make it quite clear that both in the legislative amendments that we are proposing, but also in the practice that the individual authorities must put in place when making decisions on specific cases, we must ensure that human rights are not violated. It is in the legislation we are making. In the proposal we have made, we have, as I also described, among other things. by referring to the Supreme Court judgment, considered that the proposal we have put forward lies within the conventions, and of course it must. It will also have to do so on a case-by-case basis. So I look forward to having this clarified at a thematic meeting that we have on the subject if the rapporteur participates there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133218	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133219	Thank you. We are not clear on that yet in the Left, but it may be. I think it would be a good idea for the children to be taken first and simply asked the Foundation to comment on it and also to get into dialogue about it, both the minister and also the committee, so that we could get the knots planned off if it were the case that human rights were misguided. So I would recommend that we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133250	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133252	But I can say quite clearly, as the rapporteur well knows, from when the rapporteur's party was in government that the government did not, of course, put forward a proposal without checking it in the way we are now doing in the government, with the crown lawyers in the Ministry of Justice, whether what we are putting forward is within the conventions. So, of course it is. I have quoted here today a Supreme Court ruling in one of the few cases of adoption without consent that have been decided on, just to clarify how thoroughly we have been implemented here. I would very much like to explain this to anyone who may come from the Left during the debate on this subject. But the Left can have complete peace of mind. The government has no intention of failing to meet our human rights obligations with the proposals here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133334	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Thank you to the questioner. If I may, sir. Stén Knuth to prepare for the next asker. Then I can ask the next questioner to stay ready. It's Mrs. Liselot Blixt. It's a question for the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133354	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133357	How will the Minister ensure proper conditions for prospective parents and give birth in the country's hospitals?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133405	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133409	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for this question. I'm very, very glad it's coming into play here. It is not only the questioner; it is also midwives, new-baked families, expectant mothers who are currently calling out to us politicians, because the situation is that there are too many pressured workers and too many births that happen under too much pressure, with too much pressure of work that makes birth insecure and that employees flee. This is a totally untenable situation in every way. In addition to the fact that I have of course met with both some of those who have participated publicly in the debate and who have written books, crowns and such things on the subject here, I have of course also had discussions with the midwife association and our regions. And I kind of think I'm getting a picture that shows that this problem is much more complex. This is not a completely new problem, but it does not change the fact that this problem needs to be resolved. If you look at the measurements made on new mothers, nine out of ten answer that they think they have had a good birth. That was the first thing I got stuck in my head as a minister when they said that I had to do something about it. Yeah, but there's over 90 percent who think it's going well. When has that question been asked? Could you wait some time and look at the whole process? I think all such things are completely unresolved, and that is why my answer to the question put by the questioner here is that it will be included in the future health agreement, which we will be negotiating with all the parties of the Folketing, that there must be a strengthening of the birth area, of course, with our regions. But it is clear that it is a government's responsibility to ensure that this is properly highlighted. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133614	Thank you, Minister. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133615	I find it incredibly sad that every time we have acute problems, they are put in a waiting position, and then we will sort it out with some agreement or reform far out in the future, which we have no idea. I've been discussing grief for over 13 years. I have heard Social Democrats scolding the Left Ministers over the fact that there was not enough focus and that the guidelines for grief that lay were not met. And a lot of time was spent on it. Now we have a Social Democratic minister. We have a Social Democratic Regional Council President who is responsible for the region that suffers the most and where we have women who are sent from the Kingdom Hospital to Slagelse, where we have midwives who go home crying. We have so many vacancies that you don't know how to get people in, because we know that it's sometimes that it's the economy that it's all about. There is simply too little focus on it by the members of the Regional Council, and that is what I want the Minister to address. And it should not wait until the Minister makes some sort of agreement, and then at the end of the year we can drop some money, which then has to be implemented. There are so many women who have to give birth during that time. What is the Minister going to do here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133733	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133735	Yeah, there's definitely no reason to wait. And when we have to negotiate a health agreement, it must also be on a good professional basis. In my initial answer I tried to explain some of the issues I think are relevant to dive into. Then I can say that while we are preparing the negotiations, the Danish Health Authority is completing their recommendations precisely for the svangroomsorgen on how it should be organised and what it should contain. And I look forward to those recommendations coming into consultation and then coming into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133812	I think we had some fantastic recommendations, where you really cared about the prospective parents and the future child, about a birth being a wonderful and wonderful experience, and we know how great it should be. But why not do something now? We know from the Region of Zealand that there can be, for example. choose a private midwife. This is not possible in all regions. Why couldn't it be said here that when we don't have enough midwives in the Rigshospitalet, you can choose a private one? Well, then you do something about it and you come out and you tell people. Isn't that something you could do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133848	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133848-2	As far as I am concerned, the challenge is that some regions lack midwives, and I do not think that this will be solved by pushing the midwives elsewhere. We need midwives and there are working conditions, and there is some organisation that we just have to be completely honest and say does not work satisfactorily. I also believe that we must be honest and say with great respect for the employer responsibility of our regions, as they promise every day that there is something in the organisation that we need to look at carefully, particularly in the light of the forthcoming recommendations for grief.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133925	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133927	But we know very well that many midwives stop in public and go to the private, because there is better leadership, there is more time for the individual, and there is time for you to be one midwife for the individual family. So why don't you do this while you solve the problem in public? Because if you don't put more money into more focus, we won't get more midwives in public either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133954	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210133954-2	Now I have noted that the presidents of the regional councils, at least one of them, have now met some of these disgruntled midwives. I think that's wise. And there are also some roads that you can walk when you need to solve these problems. An absolutely crucial prerequisite, and I fully agree with the questioner, is, of course, whether the economic foundations are sufficient. And that is precisely why, from the first municipal and regional agreement to finance laws and again in regional agreements and finance laws, we have lifted precisely health. So in general,
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134032	Thank you, Minister. The next question is also to the Minister for Health, and it is also by Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134039	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134040	Thank you. How will the Minister ensure that there is an increased focus on the diagnosis and treatment of diseases other than covid-19 and, for example, will the Minister consider setting up a Health Economic Council for this purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134053	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134054	After all, the health service must ensure the necessary treatment of patients, and this, of course, applies to all diseases. There are, of course, covid-19, but also all the other diseases which health care must be able to treat and provide, including during the pandemic. As you know, admissions of patients with covid-19 have meant that the hospitals and hospital staff have been under great pressure for some time. That pressure is about to take off now, and that's only good. But that was also the case back in the spring. During these periods there has been a need to free up the capacity and staff of the country's hospitals to covid-19 and to prioritize the capacity of patients with e.g. acute and life-threatening diseases. The treatment of acute and life-threatening diseases, whatever it has been for some, has been a priority throughout the epidemic, and the rules on maximum waiting times in the field of cancer and heart have not been put out of effect at any time, of course not. It has been emphasized by the government and the authorities that, of course, during a pandemic you must also contact your doctor if you have symptoms of disease and, of course, in particular by symptoms of serious illness. However, I am also fully aware that there are patients with non-acoustic and non-life-threatening diseases who, during the epidemic, have had to wait longer than usual for treatment. I'm afraid that's a consequence. It is deeply frustrating for the individual patient to have to wait a long time, which is why it is an important priority for us to obtain delayed health care treatments as quickly as possible. We have indicated on the part of the government to our regions that we are committed to securing all the resources necessary for the decommissioning of the deferred activity in 2021 that is needed. And we have also entered into an agreement, a common understanding, between Danish Occupation, Health Denmark and Danish Regions, that is, public and private, that private hospitals can help patients to be rescued and treated as quickly as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134257	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134259	The minister did not answer the question. We saw here the other day that there were several organisations and experts who were out to say that now we have to look at the priorities in order to be able to help many of those who have been pushed forward, some of those who have been forgotten and some of those who have not come, and look at all the mistakes that doctors have made by not accepting patients. There was an expert who advised that a health economic advice should be made. And that is what I asked, that is to say, whether the Minister would be willing to look at how such advice could be made, and the Minister could call it what he wants, but at least it was called a Health Economic Council. In Heri there could be some wise men, organisations and health economists who could, like, look at how we can ensure that all patients are put on an equal footing, whether they have corona, whether they are mentally ill, if they have heart problems or if they have cancer. We have seen far too many cases of citizens who have not received the help they need, and we know that there are a lot of people with mental illness here when we start to open up again, who have been sitting at home and have not received the help they need. How, then, do we give this all priority? How do we figure it out, and what can we do to have a healthcare system that has a capacity so that we can help everyone? A Health Economic Council could help with that, and that is what I am asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134423	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134424	I guess you could invent a new piece of advice for this. What we have done in relation to the situation we are in now, when we have the epidemic under control, the infection rates are low and we need to start to find out how we open up society is that we have asked experts to advise us all not only socio-economic experts, but also not just epidemiologists, but also people who know something about public health, and people who are experts on well-being, such elements • to advise us all to find out how to open up: at what rate, and what sectors and what parts of society are important to open up as quickly as possible? We receive this advice and pass it on to the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134502	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134503	These aren't patient associations. Have you talked to Sind talking to the mentally ill? Have you talked to the Heart Association who talks to all those who have heart problems? Have we talked to the fight against cancer, which has those who do not receive their treatment for cancer? Have we talked to some of those who can advise on how to get close to the citizens whom we would like to be allowed to deal with before it is too late?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134528	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134528-2	Yes, we are in close dialogue with all patient associations. After all, many of them also received funds from a unified Parliament when we gave funds to them in connection with their extraordinary work of advising patients during a pandemic. So we have been in continuous dialogue with them, and in concrete terms I have planned in the Ministry that the Ministry will enter into dialogue with the Danish Cancer Agency, because they are, of course, some of our experts in order to find out exactly what the negative consequences are. Although the cancer packages have been open and the health services have been open, there may be some where the diagnosis has been missed, and we must do all we can to pick up as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134610	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134611	I can conclude that the Minister believes that by giving some money here and there, we have made sure that we have lived up to what has been promised. I received a letter from one of the cancer patients who was not seen, although they contacted the doctor 14 times, and thus have a cancer that has spread. He has been promised a compensation of DKK 70,000, where he says: What do I need $70,000? To replace my life? That is the situation we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134642	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134643	Yes, and it is always unhappy when there are situations where, for some reason or other, the health service is so, regardless of the reason it makes mistakes, which means that patients are overlooked, that you do not get the diagnosis in time. Regardless of the fact that we have strong patient rights in general and extra strong in the most serious diseases, among others. In the field of cancer, this is something that we need to address. I believe that this should be addressed in more general terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134727	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. May I ask the questioner to prepare the platform for the next question? The next question is Mrs Mette Thiesen, who will ask questions to the Minister for Transport. I see he's there. Here's to Mrs. Mette Thiesen who's asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134745	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134749	Does the Minister consider it appropriate for Danish taxpayers to be charged extra for Muslim holidays because they are considered special in public transport services in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134806	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210134808	Thank you, President. Thank you for the question. Allow me to assume that Mrs Mette Thiesen refers, with this question, to a specific invitation to tender from the transport company Movia. I can see that two Muslim holidays appear as so-called special days. I would like to start by emphasising that as a minister I do not have any influence on the transport companies, including Movia's specific offers. Public bus traffic and Flextrafik are, after all, a local and regional task, and so it is also a task to make offers there. As I have been informed, Movia has originally thought up these days in the supply to solve a specific local issue, but I also understand that Movia will now try to solve the challenges in a different way. I understand that yesterday, Tuesday 9 February, Movia's administration stated the following on the matter, and I quote: the decision on when extra payments will be made has been taken by Movia's administration, and Movia's board of directors has not been informed of this. The decision has been taken to ensure that citizens can come with Flextrafik when they need it, even on days when Movia has experience to make it difficult to get wagons. Movia has continued this task because municipalities and regions must be able to count on their citizens to be run as agreed. In light of the questions raised, we in Movia are now looking at how we can do in future tenders. Quote out. I do not think that we should organise public transport services on the basis of special consideration for Muslim holidays. There should be no reduced service on those days. That is very important, and I therefore think it is a pity if it is the case that you have to pay extra for it; there should be no doubt about it. On the other hand, it would also be a real pity if we had to reduce driving, which is to say to some citizens who cannot be driven on those days. I shall not be able to say what is the most appropriate thing to do in relation to an invitation to tender, but I am certainly very pleased that Movia has indicated that a solution will be found in other ways, and I also hope, of course, that both Movia's board of directors and therefore also the owners, i.e. municipalities and regions, will be included in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135025	Thank you, Minister. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135026	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. It is true that I am asking the Minister precisely because on 26 January a transport service was to be dealt with in the Næstved City Council. And New Citizens' Councillor, Githa Nelander, read all the annexes carefully and then found out that the company Movia, which is owned by the municipalities, as the minister rightly says, is the Danish transport company, demanded extra payment for medical driving on Muslim holidays. New citizens also tabled an amendment and, fortunately, madness was put to an end in that way. The amendment obtained a majority, among other things. with the support of the Minister's party, the Social Democratic Party, and thank you for that. Does the Minister have any idea how widespread the phenomenon of extra payment for Muslim holidays is in the municipal transport service?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135119	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135120	What I can at least say is that the Danish transport companies have informed the Ministry that Muslim holidays have not been included among the other Danish transport companies in their tender documents. And if we look at the rest of the public traffic and at the contract management that is there, the DSB and Arriva have been arranged in such a way that the losses that may be due to public holidays, for example. Easter, Christmas and things like that are typically about the fact that there aren't so many passengers driving. Thus it is not conceived as a separate contract payment; there is a total contract payment to the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135205	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135206	Thank you so much. In New Citizens we do not accept Islam's influence in society, and we do not believe that the Danes should be charged extra for driving on Muslim holidays, because Muslim holidays do not belong anywhere in the public sector and should therefore not be financed by the Danes' tax dollars. Is the Minister aware of what the legislation lays down on what days can be considered special in public procurement and, if so, does the Minister consider that some changes are needed other than those referred to by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135243	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135244	It's not that it's a legal requirement that you have to do this... that's the way Movia has chosen to organize this supply, and, as I said, there are other transport companies who have chosen to do it in a different way. So when Movia has announced that they will now try to find another solution to it, one must also assume that they are able to find one. However, I also hope that we can agree that one is the issue of payment, but another is that it should not affect citizens either, that there are a few days else where people may not be able to be driven, whether it is a public holiday or not. We must be able to ensure that citizens can also be driven when it is Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135322	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135323	We are in total agreement on this, and Christmas Eve is also a Christian festival and a Danish tradition. Our councilman has previously been the leader of a large driving scheme, where there was a great deal of predominance of Muslim drivers, but there was never a problem in getting drivers on Muslim holidays, so this is not really about Muslims not being allowed to work as drivers.Of course, they must, and if they can get free from their work, so that they can celebrate their holidays as they like, that is how it is. But in Denmark we have Christian holidays because they are part of our national community of values and because our country is built on a Christian culture, and I can almost hear it a little on the Minister, but now I ask whether the Minister cannot see that it is watered down when municipal companies' contracts recognise Muslim holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135415	At any rate, I think it is absolutely crucial that we have a political process on this issue, and if I understand the challenge correctly, then we have not had a political process on these elements, and we should have that. But it is also quite crucial for me that we also ensure that there are no citizens left who find that there are then a few days • not Christian holidays, but other holidays • where they can suddenly not be driven to health services or anything else. That must be the crucial point. Then how the transport companies solve it must be up to them to find out. This will hardly be a challenge, for example. to be run on Christmas Eve, if it is people who do not go up at Christmas that run those days, but then there may be some other days when it may be a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135458	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question is Mr. Marcus Knuth, who also has a question for the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135515	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135517	Thank you very much. Does the Minister believe that action should be taken if a municipality does not comply with management rules and good administrative practices in the establishment of infrastructure projects that may have a detrimental effect on a Natura 2000 area such as a unique Danish river valley?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135540	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135542	Thank you for the question. I think this is a good and relevant question, but unfortunately I have to say that I am not the right person to ask it. Issues of supervision of municipalities in relation to compliance with administrative law and good administration are not within the remit of the Ministry of Transport but rather under the Ministry of the Interior and Housing. My ministry has therefore also had contact with the questioner, so that the question was instead redirected to the appropriate ministry or was asked as a written question instead, because in this way I would be able to obtain contributions from the Ministry of Home and Home so that the questioner could get a faster answer. But that has not been wanted, and I cannot therefore add so much further here, since it does not belong to my area of responsibility. However, I would just like to emphasise that this should not be taken as an expression of the fact that I did not want to contribute to answering the question, because of course we always want to do so. And if it is the case that the questioner subsequently sends a written question on, we should also be happy to ensure that it is passed on to the appropriate minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135650	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135652	Thank you. And as the Minister himself says, I had an oral dialogue with the Ministry, where I, among other things, had. stated that this is about the road which Horsens Kommune is planning from the E45 motorway, which is precisely the minister's area, across natural areas in Bygholm Ådal, closes up a Natura 2000 area, and into a new DSV business area. The reason why I am addressing the question to the Minister is precisely that this road runs from a motorway to the motorway, which is the minister's area, into a business area. And there are some things that run all the way out here, among other things. the municipality chooses not to carry out an impact assessment, although the natural area is as sensitive as anyone can see, although the construction will include a groundwater reduction in the river valley, and even if it is directly up a Natura 2000 area. Another reason why I am asking this question to the Minister is that, in relation to the extension of the E45 motorway, which is under the minister's resort, Rambøll has concluded that if you are to do a groundwater reduction, and that is what both projects have to do, even if the motorway is 900 metres away, an impact assessment should be carried out. And that's what Horsens Municipality chooses not to do. After all, we believe that, on the basis of a precautionary principle, even the least uncertainty should benefit nature. So this has something to do with E45, it has something to do with an analysis that is below the minister's resort, and a conclusion that is in a completely different direction from that of Horsens Municipality. So I want to know whether these things are acceptable to the Minister and whether the Minister has a position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135839	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135842	I think that, for the sake of good order, I should point out that it is not really because I do not have an interest in helping the questioner to clarify the issues that may be involved. But since it does not belong formally to my group of ministers and I can also see from the press that Mr. Marcus Knuth also intends to bring the matter up with the Minister for the Environment (Marcus Knuth Exactly! ) and I can see that at least there are no questions on today's agenda that go to the Minister for the Environment and maybe we should bring this up in a proper and proper manner. Among other things, you can... Mr President, I should like to make it clear to the House that we are not in a position to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Niels Flemming Hansen, if it is. That's the way we usually solve this kind of thing, and we should be happy to help clarify this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135923	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135924	Oh, I don't think that's quite fair. We have precisely these 20-questions in order to be able to ask questions to the Minister. Now I can see that there are other issues in the field of transport which are also about projects around Denmark. And since it is the case that a Rambøll report on the E45 motorway, which is on the Minister's responsibility, concludes that there needs to be a comprehensive impact assessment for the nature area, and the municipality then comes up with something quite different, despite the fact that the municipality's road lies close to the natural area, then the minister must have a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210135958	I am of the opinion that we must ensure that the legal aspects which may exist are properly and properly clarified. The supervision of the municipalities is not in my ministry, and I actually think that it is also a little poor style for a questioner not to take note of the fact that I am saying as a minister: of course I will be willing to clarify this. This is by no means about us not wanting to be helpful. It's all about the process and making sure this goes to the best of pushes. And we are making ourselves available to answer this in an alternative way, but I cannot answer it in this Chamber today, as it is not my resort.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140047	I would like to thank the Minister because we have a lot of questions that we expect to follow up on and, as I said, this is not some tiny town road from one end of the municipality to the other. So this is a road that runs directly from the motorway, which is so thank you to the Minister for wanting to cooperate with us in the future. We look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140115	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140116	Of course, we will always do so, and I also have regular dialogue with Conservatives' Transport Rapporteur. And so it is perfectly normal that such issues can also be brought up via one's rapporteur so that we can resolve what is going on. And, as I said, it is not a lack of will on my part to clarify this subject. However, it is not the case that just because a municipal road is connected to a state road, it suddenly falls under my minister's remit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140149	Thank you to the questioner, whom I would ask to prepare the platform for the next question. The next question is also to the Minister for Transport, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who can get ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140211	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140215	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that the recently published updated VVM study for the Frederikssund motorway shows a surprisingly large socio-economic gain in completing the motorway, and does the Minister agree that completion of the motorway section is considered to be among the most profitable road projects in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140228	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140230	Thank you, President, and thank you for the question. I am asked in the written question how I feel about the vvm study of the last stage of the Frederikssund motorway showing a surprisingly large socio-economic gain. It may come as a surprise to the questioner, but I would like to stress that it is not a surprise to me that this is the case. I can therefore also say that I was extremely pleased to be able to present these new calculations when we first presented them to the Parliament's Transport Committee prior to publication and then published them last week. For it is clear that when we are to negotiate in this Assembly a future green mobility plan and hence the infrastructure of the future, it is absolutely essential that we have the best possible basis for decision-making. For some projects, of which the Frederikssund motorway is a good example, this means that the figures actually look a little better than before. For others it could e.g. be a possible new Mid-Jysk motorway or what some call an army highway highway, the socio-economic calculations have fallen out less than previously assumed. That is also why there are projects ahead of us when it comes to future investment. Here I could mention many people standing in front of the queue ahead of an army highway highway. It could also be E45 or E20 at Kolding e.g. mention something other than the Frederikssund motorway and to stay in Jutland. However, as I said, the Frederikssund motorway is a very good example of a project which has a significantly better socio-economic return than the army highway motorway. Therefore, it is also my clear ambition that future infrastructure investments should be widely negotiated in the Folketing. It is to ensure long-term and solid political agreements, and therefore it is also essential that we have this in mind when we go to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140431	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140433	It is of course gratifying that we still seem to be gone and now on an updated basis agree on how excellent a project the completion of the Frederikssund motorway will be. It is therefore perhaps true, as the Minister says, that the word is surprisingly not so relevant to use in relation to the new vvm statement, but rather about the fact that, when it has been so well-lit for a long time, one is still waiting for the minister. This is, of course, the third time I have the privilege of asking the Minister of Transport since he became Minister of Transport about the same thing. We get more and more data, updated vvm etc., which shows that this is just a great idea environmental, economic, welfare etc., so that people don't have to waste their lives keeping in line. But nothing's gonna happen. Now we have heard that negotiations will be called before the Constitution Day. After all, it is a little disappointing, not to say surprising, that one has a government that is so reluctant. This is a project with a return of more than 10%. Now the Minister of Transport knows more about transport than I do, but I don't remember seeing very many projects with such a high return. This is a project which has now even become cheaper. It is, of course, a small alibi for perhaps waiting for the Minister of Transport. Maybe he'll wait another 4-5 years in the hope that it'll be even cheaper. No, right? So the big question is: why are we standing here for the third time every six months since the parliamentary elections I have asked and still cannot get the project started? The Construction Act has been passed. We did that earlier. The only thing we need in this way is to get the Minister of Transport to translate completely indisputable facts into political action, and so far we are just standing here gloomy and surprised by a Minister of Transport who does not act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140629	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140632	Thank you. Well, that's how we do it. has had a job to ensure that there are more green cars on the roads. Well, that job took a while, I guess. It was not because of the author's party, I would like to stress that, although I would have liked to have seen the author's party be included in that agreement too, so it had become broad. But the green perspectives are not least also the perspectives, in terms of how we ensure access to the necessary infrastructure, which the Eldrup Commission is also looking at. The Eldrup Commission will shortly be coming with their second report, and I think it is perfectly natural to include it in the aspects of a green mobility plan, and therefore also to qualify for the investment plan to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140716	Now I think the Minister of Transport is kind of putting his light under a bushel. It cannot be the case that the Minister of Transport has been so concerned about making the green electric car reform, where he has been slashed quite forcefully by both the tax minister and other good people in the government that he has not had the opportunity to look at anything else at all. Well, I guess we're both chromosonically challenged, there'll be some who say we can probably multitask, in the sense that we can make more negotiations at the same time. So I simply will not accept that it should be a debate about getting more electric cars on the road, which means that the 24,000 commuters to Frederikssund must still sit and wait every day for the traffic to arrive, but above all for the Minister of Transport. We must be able to get a better answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140756	In fact, I am quite convinced that if we had not assigned a road to more greener cars, both I and the author's party would have been rightly criticised for not thinking about it if we wanted to expand and improve road conditions. For ensuring that the transport of the future is green is also a reason to say that then it is relevant to have a balanced approach where you invest in public transport, bicycle paths and, well, roads. And it should not be forgotten that the latest analysis also points to the need for significantly more noise protection than has previously been assumed. I think that is also important in relation to local residents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140840	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140841	But I guess that's a lot further down. What we are talking about is the piece from Smurium up to Frederikssund, and that is the piece that simply needs to be driven out of asphalt. We've known for years that was necessary. We have known for years that this was an environmentally good idea. We have known for years that this was a good idea for society, in other words financially. We have known for years that this would be a good idea in terms of welfare, because the 24,000 daily commuters simply needlessly sit on non-timed roads. Surely this has nothing to do with the green car reform, which the tax minister has then negotiated. I am almost tempted to ask how many man-hours the transport minister has spent in those negotiations, if that is really what has prevented him from doing it quite clearly right, namely to complete the Frederikssund motorway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140922	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140924	In contrast to the questioner, I and the rest of the government are at least very concerned about preventing Danes from becoming more louder than they are already. On the contrary, we are actually concerned that traffic noise should be reduced. Therefore, it has also been a very, very significant contribution in the updated vvm study. And I am glad that it could then be included in a framework and in a study which has both made the return better, made the investment cheaper and also ensured that there is significantly better noise protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210140958	Then we thank the questioner and the Minister. And thank the questioner for immediately throwing himself at his duty of despriting. Mort Messerschmide Of course, I don't want anything on my conscience here). No, no. Then we give room to the Minister for Children and Education, and the questioner, Mrs Krarup, has a question for the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141022	Thank you. Will the Minister, in his capacity as Minister for the Children's Area, put in place measures to make it more attractive to have children so that we can mitigate the decline in population growth which, according to EU statistics, is on the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141034	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141036	So, first of all, I would like to say that this is an interesting issue, because we do not yet know how this crisis is going to affect the birth rate. We know what it looks like right now, and I agree with the questioner that there is good reason to be concerned about that. But look at, for example. World War II, there was an increase during the war, but the baby boom came after. This means that we still have the benefit of seeing whether what is happening is that people are postponing the time when they have their children, with the result that we will have a new boomer generation on the other side of the crisis; or whether it is so today, unlike during World War II, that people are postponing the time of having children so late that it may turn out to be for and that is that there is an age issue that has a different meaning now than it had then. So I fully recognise that we in Europe can face a problem of failing children's numbers, which is not necessarily taken up afterwards at least not fully and therefore not only about something that has been postponed. I believe that a suggestion of how to actually counteract the decline in the number of births is to create security around the family economy. I think that is the one big thing, and it is something that the government has been very concerned about in dealing with this corona crisis, so simply create economic security around the family. The second thing is that there are proper frameworks around being a family for children. And I would just like to point out that we have also set aside a great deal of extra money to improve both day care institutions and schools in Denmark. So if you are going to look at what are some major structural foundations around the families of children, then I would like to point out these two things. We now see what is happening on the other side of the Corona crisis in relation to whether there will be a marked increase, just as we have seen after previous crises, including World War II.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141231	Thank you, Minister. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141233	Thank you for the answer, which I must say I find disappointing. The article I have referred to in my question concerns the fact that even fewer children are born under corona than before, but too few children were born already. So there was every reason to have a family policy even before corona, but corona makes it so evidently even more topical. After all, with the Minister's reply here, and also with the reply from the Minister for Social Affairs, with which I have discussed earlier today in Question Time, this clearly shows that the government does not have a policy that aims to do something specific for families, specifically for more children to be born. It is just a huge shortcoming when you look at the situation we are in, which is, of course, to be expected to deteriorate further. After all, it is not enough to look at the major economic framework conditions or welfare policy. There has to be something that is directed directly at the families. At any rate, there are indications of this if you look at what you are doing in other European countries, because there are countries that are facing the same problems that we are doing or are actually facing even worse problems. They have introduced measures aimed directly at families, so that in various ways it is slightly different from one country to another how to do so, making it more affordable and perhaps even economically attractive to have more children. I think it is strange that Denmark has a government that does not have a family policy at all. There were also doubts as to who I should really be asking these questions when I first asked them to put them on here during Question Time, i.e. what would be done to try to bring up the number of children in Denmark? You don't have a family ministry or a family minister. You have doubts about where it is. I think it would suit the government to focus on the family, which is, of course, our country's most important and smallest unit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141443	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141445	Thank you. I think we simply disagree on what tools are needed to have a high birth rate, and therefore I do not accept that premise at all. When we make minimum standards in the area of day-to-day services • It has been the concern of the Social Democrats that more money should be set aside for that area • It is all about the fact that what puts a real pressure on a family of children is, for example, what is going on here. to deliver a child where there aren't enough hands. So the feeling of the inadequacy of it, I think, is simply part of it. In many European countries, it costs the head of a jet hunter to have his or her child in day care. I believe that the proper conditions of being a family child are absolutely crucial in the choices made as a family for children, whether you can see for yourself having more children than what was initially planned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141531	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141532	There is no doubt at all that a proper economy and a well-functioning welfare society are a huge good thing, but that is not enough. I think there is something sad about the fact that the Minister for Social Affairs' attitude to children is to ensure more early forced removals and that the attitude of the Minister for Children to children is to improve care arrangements outside the home. So there's something called the family. There's something called home. Why is it that one cannot focus on that area and try to find out what is needed there and at least set in motion some studies that can uncover it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141615	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141616	There's no doubt that we have a completely different approach to this. For me and for the Social Democrats, family policy is to discuss with ourselves and each other what kind of schools we are offering, what kind of day institutions we are offering, what kind of security is under the family, for example, in connection with the aid packages. When we go in and say that some of what has been most important for social democracy in this context has been wage compensation schemes, it is, after all, putting out a safety net that provides security and security in families. If you look at the researchers who deal with birth rates, one of the points they make is, in fact, exactly financial security as one of the most crucial factors in relation to whether children are born or not, and that is why I simply do not recognise the premise put forward by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141700	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141702	Of course financial security is important. It is for all people. There is no doubt about that. So it's nice to focus on it, but in addition, you have to have an extra focus on the unit that is actually the ones that get the children, namely the family. They must be provided and made more attractive for them to have children at an earlier age. It could of course be examined whether, with various economic measures, this could not have a positive effect. That is why I cannot understand why the government is not opening its eyes and looking at what it is doing around other countries, and maybe trying to imitate some of the more successful initiatives so that we can focus on families and thus hopefully make it easier for people to bring children into the world and do so at an earlier age.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141755	Thank you to the questioner. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141757	If we look at some of the countries where the birth rate is extremely low, these are countries where it is quite impossible to leave home. So housing policy is what we are talking about. Contrary to this premise that it should be some particular, small area we should be looking at, I think that for families, security is that you have a decent housing and that it is actually possible to enter the housing market; that you have a security about your wage income in relation to having to put a child in the world; that there are proper institutions and schools that you can be sure to have. And to be honest, I do not think that there are very many countries that match the Scandinavian countries in terms of providing it with security and the secure environment around the family. In relation to what is sad in this respect, I think it is extremely sad that in countries that I have visited, it costs 10,000, 12,000, 13,000 and 14,000 just to have a day-care centre, with the result that people choose family life from or have fewer children than they actually expected, because their situation simply does not allow it. That is why I believe that the heart of all family policy is that we ensure that the framework, the economy and security are around the families, and that is family policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141901	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. Next question, please stay ready. It's sir. Kristian Hegaard, and it is with a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, which I can also see is in the Chamber. That's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141934	Thank you, and welcome to the Chair President. Third Vice-President Thank you. ) Does the Minister consider it reasonable that a young Chinese student who was only in Denmark to study could end up in Ellebæk as a result of an expired visa, a place which has been strongly criticised by the Council of Europe's Torture Committee for prison-like conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141951	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210141953	Thank you for the question, and also from here a welcome in the chair. Third Vice-President Thank you). In general terms, I would say that it is good for Denmark that foreign students come to the country. I am also very pleased that the government, among other things. in cooperation with the Radical Left has ensured better opportunities for more foreign students to stay in Denmark after the end of their studies and thus contribute to our economy. In relation to the specific case referred to by the questioner, it is not surprising that the questioner is not able to give a detailed account of the specific case in this Chamber today. However, I have asked the officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to examine what is up and down in this particular case, and I can also understand that a committee question has been put to me so that I may be given the opportunity to explain the matter in a confidential manner. But I can say that it is my general view that you must of course leave Denmark if you are not allowed to stay here. It's self-evident. It has also always been in the Aliens Act that a foreigner can be expelled if he or she stays here without the necessary permission. I think that is also obvious. It also appears from the legislation that a foreigner may be detained in order to ensure the possibility of executing a expulsion, and such detention shall be tried as a starting point by the courts, not by a minister, but by a judge at the end of the table. The authorities shall carry out a proportionality assessment in connection with detention. The action must, of course, measure up to the objective pursued, i.e. to send people out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142134	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142136	Thank you. I fully understand that we cannot stand here and exchange personal data, and I therefore look forward to an explanation of the matter in a confidential form. The reason why I raise the matter here anyway is that it follows from Section 36 of the Aliens Act that a foreigner without the right of residence may be detained, among other things. if less intrusive measures in Section 34 are not sufficient to allow removal. That is why I would like to ask whether the Minister generally believes that it is a fair balance of proportionality if a young university student who has made contact with the authorities himself is sent to Ellebæk, who is considered by the Council of Europe's torture committee to be a prison-like relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142222	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142224	I think that these are good rules that we have in Articles 34, 35 and 36 of the Aliens Act, which are among other things. is that we should not intervene harder than is necessary. It is, of course, a general principle of the rule of law, and it is a good and healthy principle. I would like to reply to this specific matter in confidence, but in general terms I would say that if there is a possibility for the authorities to take less intrusive action, then of course we must do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142256	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142257	I am very pleased about this, because we have seen before that the Minister has been willing to see whether the authorities are acting appropriately in the meeting with foreigners who are no longer legally resident. I would therefore like to know whether, in connection with this confidential reply, the Minister will also see in this case whether it could be handled in a more gentle way, for example by depositing passports or the like or with the other less intrusive measures contained in Section 34 of the Aliens Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142327	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142328	I am not going to interfere in the specific case or the procedure for dealing with it, but it often happens that individual cases give rise to a more general discussion of how the law on aliens works. However, I would say that I am quite satisfied that we have the opportunity to detain people in Ellebæk so that we avoid people going underground and that, if we know that there is a plane going to Afghanistan, Somalia or somewhere else, we can detain people until we can get them on the plane. The rules clearly state that within three days the judge must decide whether detention was lawful and whether detention can be maintained. After all, it is a good principle that it is ultimately a judge who has to assess it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142410	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142411	I would just like to finish by saying whether the Minister does not agree, for example, when it comes to young students who are just in Denmark to study, that at least it is not the first step when their residence permit expires that they will then go to Ellebæk, but that they always have to go to Ellebæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142438	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142439	Well, I do not think it can be said in general that Ellebæk does not exist for students. In other words, there have been people who have had periods of study in the past and there have been people who have previously had an au pair stay, and some may have had a refugee stay; there may be many different residences. There may also be some who have not had a residence basis at all. But what is common to them is that they should be sent out, and we would like to be detained in order to be able to effect a broadcast to prevent people, for example. Going underground. I would like to repeat what is in the law on foreigners, which has been there for many, many years, namely that action should not be taken more seriously than is necessary. But there is quite often a need to be able to detain people, and that is what the courts say, in other words, that it is both factual and proportional when the authorities are imprisoning people. This cannot be done forever; the longer it takes, the more the authorities must be able to argue that it is factual and proportional. However, I am not exactly aware of the fact that, in this particular case or in other specific cases, it has been shown that the legislation has been administered against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142540	Thank you to the questioner. I thank the Minister. The next question is Mr. Marcus Knuth, asking questions to the Minister for the Environment. I'm just gonna ask you if we can get the booze off the platform. Marcus Knuth I'll do that right away). That's fine, thanks for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142624	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142628	Thank you, President. In the view of the Minister, it is worrying to launch infrastructure projects that will lead to massive traffic close to the Natura 2000 site border and that the establishment of such a project could threaten compliance with the UN climate targets, among others. due to pollution in the area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142651	Thank you to the questioner. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142654	Thank you for the question. We must take good care of our nature, even when we make infrastructure in Denmark. This also applies to Natura 2000 sites which are protected by the Nature Directives. This means, among other things, that plans and projects that may affect a Natura 2000 area must be subject to a habitat assessment that ensures that the area is not harmed. In the event of damage to an area, no plan can be adopted or a project authorised. The rules on habitat assessment are found in many different Danish rules, and it depends on the specific project, which rules apply and also what redress is available. The questioner states that the question has been asked in the light of inter alia: Horsens Kommune's proposal for a municipal plan supplement and there is a deadline for submitting a hearing reply on 25 March this year. It is the Danish Environmental Protection Agency which, on behalf of natural law, can be said to be responsible for national interests in ensuring that Natura 2000 sites are not harmed. And it is also the board that decides whether to ask the Ministry of Home Affairs and Home Affairs to object to a municipality's plan proposal on behalf of the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. So once the plan is finally adopted, the complainants also have the right to appeal to the Board of Appeal in relation to legal matters. In relation to the last part of the question, it is somewhat unclear to me what is meant by the question of setting up in relation to a threat to compliance with the UN climate targets. They apply overall, at least if we are talking about our 70-percent target here in Denmark. After all, it is good that there is also commitment from the Conservative People's Party. I believe that we are in full swing with this, but it is something that we must take care of together with all the plans we are making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142852	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210142853	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. I am glad that the Minister for the Environment is here, because we feel in East Jutland that we really need the help of the Minister. I noticed the Minister's facebook post the other day saying that we are in the middle of a natural crisis. This is really how we feel in East Jutland. The Minister now described that the project, among other things. The municipality of Horsens, where there is an absolute social democratic majority, is planning a 6 m wide road to heavy transport across the very, very beautiful village of Bygholm Ådal, up a Natura 2000 area. The municipality has already chosen, before the hearing, not to carry out a Natura 2000 impact assessment, and it is therefore, although the natural area is as sensitive as the Minister knows, and although the construction may include a groundwater reduction in the river valley. Just to clarify this: you are also expanding the E 45 motorway, and in this context a Rambøll report has shown that if you want to make groundwater sinking there and that is 900 metres away from this natural area, there is a need for an impact assessment. So we feel that from the start the municipality has already been completely, completely skewed in relation to this, and we also feel that the least uncertainty on the basis of a safety principle must of course benefit nature. In his facebook post, the Minister writes: Now is the time to get the municipalities into the fight for a richer nature. The clock is ticking, and there are seven weeks left of the consultation period, and we certainly have an arbitrary municipality with an absolute red majority which has in no way chosen to do anything for nature. So I want to know whether the Minister actually has powers and will do something to take action in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143039	Perhaps I should just clarify in all silence that the facebook post to which the questioner refers is not about this project. There is no doubt that we are in the midst of a natural crisis, and where I have invited all municipalities to join, the issue of getting more wild nature on the territory of the municipality is. And there the Municipality of Horsens and all other municipalities can join in, and I hope they will. When it comes to the project that the questioner is asking about, I can only welcome the fact that municipalities with many social democrats are well represented at finding the right balance. But what's being asked is this assessment. I think it is important to say that you can do this materiality assessment first, and it is also a little the result of it that decides that if you come to the conclusion that a project does not significantly affect a Natura 2000 area, then there should be no further impact assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143130	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143131	Well, I can then tell the Minister that Horsens Municipality has not even built in the opportunity for an impact assessment, among other things. in the agreement it has on DSV's project. So we feel it's completely wrong. Well, right now, there's a local giant effort to preserve this river valley, among other things. with a facebook group of nearly 2,000 people. One of the proposals is to extend the existing Natura 2000 area. Is this something that the Minister might be looking at, even considering that the clock is ticking and that the construction is about to start?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143208-2	In relation to the specific case that I mentioned, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency will decide on this plan supplement. In addition, there is the possibility, when you have a plan in place, that a complaint can be lodged with the Board of Appeal. And the assessment, i.e. the materiality assessment here, can also be verified by a review body. So, in this way, we have ensured, even in relation to specific projects, that we have the opportunity to have our voice heard. My experience with good social democratic municipalities is that you must be able to balance both, namely to ensure jobs and business development in your municipality, but at the same time also take good care of nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143247	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143249	I am always very pleased that our Minister for the Environment is very visionary. And the Minister writes among other things.: Think if we can get all of Denmark into the Minister's competition to free nature. Here we have Horsens Kommune, who is well into the diametrically opposite. The other day I was visiting this very beautiful river valley, which among other things. is almost in my own backyard, along with our transport rapporteur, Niels Flemming Hansen, and our local councillor, Esben Hedeager. I would also like to see if I could ask the Minister out to see Bygholm Ådal. We would be very happy if the Minister would agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143323	First of all, I would like to say again that when I write: think, if we could bring all municipalities, then it is because we know that everyone can make a difference in terms of looking after nature better. You and I can with our gardens if we let them be more wild, and the municipalities can also do that in roundabouts and along ditches and at nursing homes and at schools and at sports facilities. So there's a lot you can do. And that is what we have to do, and that is what this is all about. In relation to the specific project, I would like to thank you for the invitation. I'm always happy to receive invitations. Right now we're a little limited by corona, but it's always nice to be invited out locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143359	Thank you. Questions to answer. Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth and the Minister for the Environment, with whom we continue. For the next question is to the Minister for the Environment, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. We're just getting the platform ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143423	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143426	Does the Minister for the Environment agree with his Copenhagen party colleagues that in the campaign on social media against the construction of 2,000 new Copenhagen homes, the Danish Nature Conservation Association is spreading dangerous misinformation, cf. the article "Nature Conservation Association" is attacked for gross misdirection in dispute about Amager Fællegled: "Fundamentally dangerous" in Berlingske on 5 February 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143458	Thank you to the questioner for drawing attention to something that has filled incredibly much in the communal world, and a special thanks also to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to draw attention to this particular article, because it might give a little point on the home front to keep up with what my husband is doing every day. I believe that in these years we must pay particular attention to how we use figures in the political debate and also present reality. This is true in all cases and therefore also in this case about the local plan for the Vejland district. Denmark's Conservation Association is a large member organisation. I have a very good working relationship with them every day. It is also an association that has great credibility in Danish society, and that is precisely why they also have a special responsibility to interpret things in a way that cannot be misunderstood, even when you have strong opinions, as is the case with this example. So I fully agree with both my fellow party member and my husband. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143600	What this is about specifically is the question of whether one can count in the way that the Danish Nature Conservation Association locally does, but which is also supported by Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, whom I assume the Minister knows; it is, after all, a former member of the parliament from the same bloc to which the Minister for the Environment belongs. This is true of the claim made by the Danish Nature Conservation Association that in the last 10 years Copenhagen has lost 14 per cent. of its green areas. When you so move around the capital, it can be difficult to see where they are physically reduced, because they are not. What the Nature Conservation Society calculates its things is that more people have come to Copenhagen. There has been a net increase, I believe some 70,000 over the ten years, and therefore there are simply more people to share the same natural areas. This is a rather wild way of calculating if you want to be taken seriously. Then, as Jonas Bjørn Jensen, who is the political rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party at the City Hall, could point out and say that 14 per cent have arrived. less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less Well, there isn't. There are the same number of libraries; there may just be, when there is no corona, a little less distance between the borrowers. That is why it is nonsense, and that is why it is true what the environmental minister's party colleagues in the town hall say, namely that it is total deception. That is why there is also reason to consider whether the privileged position of Mrs Reumert Gjerding's association is actually justified. One thing, then, is that when Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding was a member of the Enhedslisten, one knew that one had to take figures like that with a spruce of salt when it had all been run into such some kind of red propaganda machine; fair enough, that is the way it is. But another thing is the Danish Nature Conservation Association, which already with Stauning got its privileged status etc. etc. Can we really live with this kind of fix-fake from there, Minister for the Environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143800	I actually thought I was trying to be quite clear, and I also think it is a fine quote, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt takes up the question of libraries, i.e. that the Copenhageners have not received 14 per cent. less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, less libraries, That is also why I think we should be careful with the way we use numbers. I wouldn't have formulated myself exactly the same way. But I think it is important in these years when we can also see that there is division, that in the political debate we all make an effort in the way we present things. And this is a matter where the waves go high, but it does not change the fact that you also have a responsibility for the way things are communicated, and I agree with my party colleague on that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143843	Well, then I'm glad that you, the Minister for the Environment and the members of the Minister for the Environment, agree. Then the question is how to get it communicated to a slightly wider circle. So, I would say that we are almost on the safe side of the Corona restrictions here in the Parliament Hall, so will the Minister for the Environment write to Mrs Maria Gjerding and Denmark's Nature Conservation Association and explicitly draw attention to the responsibility that the Minister for the Environment emphasizes here, and ensure that the Danish Nature Conservation Association, with the privileges that this association has, behaves a little more decently forward-lookingly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143918	I remember the time when we discussed the issue of the law of conservation in this Chamber too, and the question of the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats does not look at the same thing. We believe that they should continue to have the right there at the Danish Nature Conservation Association. We are pleased with the instrument, which dates back to the beginning of the 1900s. It is 1917, as far as I remember. I do not have figures for exactly how the natural area has developed in the City of Copenhagen, but in relation to the way in which it is produced, as the questioner has also said, I think we look at things very similar.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210143955	There is the question, then, whether the Minister for the Environment will express it in concrete terms to the wrongdoer. In other words, we have a nature conservation association, which the Minister for the Environment defends in terms of having a privileged right to act in relation to conservation provisions. Then we seem to agree that in this particular case we have not behaved properly. There it would be very natural for the Minister of the Environment to write to Mrs Maria Gjerding and the Danish Nature Conservation Association and to indicate that this kind of numerical fissure is simply not good. Will the Minister for the Environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144028-2	As I said, this is a case in which the waves have gone high, and I think the Social Democrats at the City Hall are telling very well how they look at things. I would not necessarily have formulated myself in exactly the same way, but the main message in it, namely that one should be careful with the way one uses the figures, and that one has a responsibility when one is as big an organisation as the Danish Nature Conservation Association, I agree with. And I can also see that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has read the message from my Copenhagen party colleagues, because they also comment on it in the article. Even though you may sometimes disagree, you can work together on other matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144102	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment and to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. The question has been answered. We shall now proceed to the next question, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 856, which is addressed to the Minister for Development Cooperation by Mrs Karen Ellemann from the Left, and also by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144121	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144126	Thank you for that, President. How will the Minister continue to ensure a strong Danish focus on the rights of girls and women in the context of the future development policy strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144140	Thank you very much. And thank you both for asking. It is good to come here in the Chamber when there are co-questioners on. Work on the new development policy strategy has just begun and I look forward to the forthcoming dialogue with development rapporteurs, civil society, researchers, the private sector and partner countries as well as the subsequent political discussions. Without prejudging the final priorities of the future strategy, it is clear that the rights and equality of girls and women are and will remain a major priority for Danish development policy. We cannot solve the many problems facing the world if we do not get everyone with us and if the basic human rights of girls and women are not respected. Denmark has a very long tradition of defending the rights of girls and women globally, and we see ourselves on the absolute front when it comes to fighting for the sexual and reproductive rights of girls and women. We absolutely must continue to do so. In the forthcoming discussions, I would like, among other things, to say something. focus on Denmark continuing to support concrete initiatives for girls and women, for example through multilateral partners and civil society organisations. This is particularly true in Africa and in the neighbourhoods where girls and women are particularly vulnerable and where Danish money can benefit many girls and women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144312	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144314	Thank you so much for your clear speech. I understand that the Minister for Development is pleased that we are meeting in Parliament and debating this. I am, of course, also the rapporteur for the development of the Left. And, of course, we are starting to open negotiations, not party political negotiations as such, but indeed thematic discussions, and there is, of course, a great deal of activity among all stakeholders. This is positive; it shows that Denmark's development policy is broadly supported, and it promises good for the future. I am particularly pleased that the Minister here emphasizes that the rights of girls and women are and will remain a central part of a future development policy strategy. At the risk of starting to take a little advance on the pleasures of some real political negotiations, I would like to hear from the Minister here in Parliament's position to try to be a little specific in relation to the approach to the initiatives. One of the features of Danish development policy, at least historically, is precisely this realism, but it is also a risk-taking and also the ability to actually put some concrete thematics on the agenda and with them, in other words, work on some specific objectives. Thus, for example, how many cases of maternal mortality we will contribute to reducing, because everything else equals some specific areas where there is incredibly much work to do. Because of the covid-19 situation, there is clearly extra pressure, but does the Minister have an appetite to work both thematically but also highly targeted with measurable results?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144515	Thank you very much. Now I am very pleased that Mrs Karen Ellemann will be part of the political negotiations, and we have gathered together in the Folketing an incredibly large and broad political commitment to the rights of women and girls alike. However, I cannot say more clearly than what I also said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs about what the government brings out of overall priorities. This is And if we go in and look at what is of concrete examples, I would say that the best examples are actually with the very, very fine partners we have in the field, i.e. Danish civil society organisations, but also their cooperation with international organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144604	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144606	Thank you. And it was also good to hear that it is reaffirmed that it is, of course, a central part. But one thing is to say that it is a central part; it is one of the priorities. However, what might be interesting to hear is: how does the Minister view the fact that, in relation to other thematics, girls and women's rights are not specifically neglected as indisputablely important elements in relation to other important agendas, such as the whole climate effort, on which we all focus very closely?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144641	I can guarantee that my commitment to the development policy strategy will be that we have a cross-cutting approach. And girls and women's rights will be a cross-cutting concept, as I can actually see that it is in the current development policy strategy. And that applies to all the commitments we make with our development policy measures around the world. Rights take up a lot, and it is the case that as a country we actually have a lead in this area. So there are also great expectations for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144721	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144726	Thank you very much. I am sincerely pleased to hear the Minister stress that this theme is and will be a top priority for Denmark thank you for that. Personally, I am of the opinion that we simply will not achieve the objectives of the world unless we address the objectives of the world. 5, which is precisely about women and girls' rights in terms of gender equality in general. I am also pleased that the Minister is taking this opportunity to stress that it must of course be cross-cutting in Danish aid efforts. And that brings me to the question whether the Minister will raise the need for this particular cross-cutting effort, including with regard to the major UN organisations. The UN can do a lot, and the individual organisations can do a lot at country level, but what unfortunately characterises the major UN organisations, where Denmark is also a major contributor, is that you typically think in silos, and not across. So I want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister, hopefully on the basis of the future development policy strategy, will bring this into discussion with the major UN organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144848	Yeah, I promise. I'm already in full swing with that. This applies not only to the UN organisations, but also to the European debate. Now I am also the Minister for Nordic Cooperation who is also included as a topic in the meetings we have already had. And it is also because, like the Nordic countries, we have a very special position and a very special voice. And I have already seen on several occasions what this means, namely that when we speak with our Nordic voice and we come to such a degree in the great discussions in the UN organisations, we are listened to. I am very pleased that I too, as a new minister, have been given the presidency in what is called "Call to Action', which in turn is an initiative across 90 countries, where we focus specifically on some areas in relation to girls and women's rights. So this will be an agenda that I, as a minister, will talk about frequently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144943	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210144944	That is good to hear, and that is, in fact, if I may use that expression, only the imagination that sets the limit on how far one can go. A good example, which I would like to take this opportunity to give you here a good example, seems to me at least to be when Denmark concluded a cooperation agreement with the World Food Programme, that is to say the UN Food Programme, about distributing food aid to people in need of emergency aid, so also to ensure that there is at the same time the presence of the large UN organisation UNFPA, which provides information and access to family planning. This was new thinking in the large United Nations system just a few years ago, and I would just like to take this opportunity to call on the Minister to go in the same direction, in other words to get the major organisations to cooperate and then achieve results along that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145042	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145043	Thank you. I can, of course, hit it because about a year ago, the two questioners were today with my predecessor in Nairobi to Nairobi Summit together with a great many other countries and made promises of concrete action. We also have the honour of having a Crown Princess in this country who has entered very significantly into exactly being ambassadors of girls and women's rights. We also saw it at the latest in the Danish Collection this weekend, where this also had a positive focus. So yes, UNFPA is part of the cooperation we have, because as a country we have connected ourselves closely to the major UN organisations because they have large, large muscle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145129	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karen Ellemann on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145133	Thank you. It is a good thing that the Minister is also talking here about the presence in Nairobi and Nairobi Summit, because that brings me back a little to the point of setting goals and following up the efforts being made. Here, at least, it is perhaps more as an invitation to the Danish side that one is also quite specific about how to follow up, when one now makes these agreements and one and the other is made and it is clear that one promises to promote and do things. I think this could be a Danish speciality: to help ensure that the promises made at various huge international meetings and conferences are followed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145224	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145225	I myself have the same political objective: to achieve what we set up as objectives and actions. We also have the tradition of setting very ambitious targets on the Danish side, which is why we may well risk achieving them in this way, but not achieving them completely. But I would like to say to Mrs Karen Ellemann that we have an amazing structure at home in the network we have in the Danish Parliament in a cross-party way. Here I look very much forward as a minister to embark on the broad political debate on how close we are then to achieving our objectives. But we move the world best if we target where we want to reach when.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145307	Thank you. The question has been answered, so we move on to the next question, which, of course, has some of the same people involved. This is for the Minister for Development Cooperation, and it has been tabled by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left and with the questioner Mrs Karen Ellemann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145322	Here you go, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145324	Thank you. We'll continue on the same street. The question is: What will the Minister do to strengthen global cooperation on women and girls' rights in developing countries, given that President Joe Biden has abolished the Global Gag Rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145342	Thank you very much for that question. This brings out such a smile in my face, because it was really a joyous day when we could celebrate the abolition of Global Gag Rule almost two weeks ago. I was very pleased to be able to mark it in a joint debate in Jyllands-Posten together with the Danish Parliament's cross-party network. It is unique that we in Denmark have broad political agreement on sexual and reproductive health and rights, what we normally call SRR rights. In recent years, Denmark has worked to maximise the impact of the already strong Danish efforts to promote the sexual and reproductive health of women and girls. A long-term objective of this work is to create a stronger alliance with progressive countries that fight for the right of girls and women to their own bodies. For example: We are working to protect the progress we have already made in the international negotiating rooms in New York, Geneva and Brussels. At the same time, we support UN funds and UN programmes, and we increase Danish SRR images at country level through political dialogue, concrete projects and strategic cooperation with civil society. This work does not end in any way, although more progressive winds blow from the United States. However, it is expected that the change in direction of the United States will give us an important ally and contribute to more countries choosing the right side of the fight against SRR rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145523	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145524	Thank you. No, it certainly doesn't end with Joe Biden's signature on a cancellation of the Global Gag Rule. I agree entirely with that. Let me just remind you of the challenges we face. There are still up to 830 women or girls who lose their lives in childbirth every day. We are still in a situation where 232 million unwanted pregnancies are taking place. We are in a situation of corona, which probably leads to an additional 2 million girls having the prospect of being circumcised, and that in the order of 13 million more girls than we are currently experiencing, there is a prospect of getting married before their 15th birthday. So the challenges are many. The purpose of this question to the Minister is, in fact, to support the Minister in grabbing the glove and reaching out, first and foremost, of course, to the Americans, the American administration and to ensure, as the Minister rightly points out, that we can now hopefully move forward. Now it is not only about protecting and safeguarding the things we have, that is to say the rights we have, but we can hopefully move forward towards achieving what was agreed more than 25 years ago in Beijing, but also other important rights that have been withdrawn in recent years. So there must be a strong, strong call to the Minister to grab the glove, take hold of the American administration, but also reach out to some of the contributors who stood ready when Donald Trump slammed the box in, and here I am thinking in particular of some of the major American funds. It is important that there is also a strong European voice that says: Stay on board, there is enough to fight for • just follow a number of the key figures that I had the opportunity to list up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145744	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145745	Thank you very much for the follow-up question. I fully agree that the challenges are very many and, as I also said, if we do not focus on this area, on the rights of girls and women, we will not achieve it at all. It was a huge setback for what we had won that the Trump government did what they did in relation to the Global Gag Rule. That's also why I'm saying it was a really happy day, and it was for all of us here in the Folketing, and therefore it was great that we could go out so collected in this area. So the thing about picking up the glove and fighting the case I do, and we do, and of course we do so with the voice we have also sent to the world, by having a network here in the Folketing, which makes us so united. I think that will reach both the Biden administration and I think that will reach all the other stakeholders. At least I'm gonna do what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145836	Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145837	I certainly hope that this will happen, and I also hope that the Minister will reach out to the new administrator in American Danida, i.e. USAID. After all, it is they who will manage the budget lines on the basis of American priorities. But I would also very much like the Minister to try to translate those fine words into action. The Minister spoke about Nordic co-operation, it is really, really important. European cooperation is certainly also important, and unfortunately we see setbacks on this whole agenda in a number of European countries, most recently with Poland at the forefront. Fourth Vice-President Yes, please. The minister. ) But what I really wanted to ask was whether the Minister would try to reach out to the alliance called She Decides, which emerged in the wake of the re-establishment of The Global Gag Rule back in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145939	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210145942	I think that exactly the last question here with She Decides is a very good picture of what it was like: that our like-minded countries were united when there was a very large amount of money that disappeared from a very large donor, which had a very great influence and also a negative impact on countries we have actually supported development aid for many years, when we wondered that they were suddenly on Trump's side. So, yes, we have gathered many positive forces, and it is clear that we are building on them. I believe that the fact that the United States and the Biden administration have reported out so quickly gives us all great pleasure and sends a really clear signal, but it is clear that what has been built up in the four years of Trump's presidency is still being built on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150030	Then it's Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150033	Thank you again for confirming that this is a strong and clear course which continues, including with a new development policy strategy. It's important. Here in the previous rounds we have talked a lot about like-minded countries, that is, countries that have the same values as we have, in relation to this idea that it is of course a fundamental human right that a woman must decide over her own body, decide how many children to have and who to have them with, whether to marry, when to marry and everything that we in Denmark take as a matter of course, but certainly not in the rest of the world. And it has got worse, as Mrs Ulla Tørnæs also mentioned, even in Europe. That is why my question will also come around a little about how the Minister views the Minister's role in trying to get some of the opponents to talk, which is the responsibility of the Minister as a true democrat to see himself bear in relation to actually also trying to have a dialogue with the opponents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150148	I feel that one of my main areas of responsibility is to take the critical diplomatic dialogue when it makes sense. As Mrs Ulla Tørnæs said, there are also a number of European countries, and she only had time to mention Poland, but I could have continued the range of countries. We in the government are fully aware of where there is this kind of conservative attitude towards the rights of girls, women and minorities at all. So it will be an essential element for me in my work to speak on this matter. It is true, as Mrs Karen Ellemann says, that there are some things that we take as a matter of course, but we do get blown up in the back of the head with the fact that they are not obvious. There are countries that are close to us, countries that are members of the European Union, just as the questioners are saying here, which are not at all steeped in the positions that otherwise lie in the rules on rights within the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150249	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150250	Thank you. If, in addition to the great work that of course lies within our European family, and which both the government focuses on and thanks for that and which we here in the Danish Parliament also focus on, and which is also highlighted in the various networks, then of course the developing countries also have a role to play here. When we gather together and, hopefully, soon again can physically face each other again, the Minister has good reason to know what happens when you say things that can actually be seen as huge shocks for others and where the blackout curtain, so to speak, is almost just rolled down and you simply do not want the dialogue. It is just a warning to the Minister: have a positive mind and be prepared but insist on the dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150340	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150341	It can be said that at this time, when we are not travelling, we may sometimes have the feeling that those with whom we talk at videoconferences almost disable the screen and the speaker when we speak. However, I am speaking, and I have already done so several times with African colleagues, who I know have an attitude which contradicts what is the overall attitude of Denmark, the government and the Folketing towards women and girls and rights. I am very pleased with the questions today, but it shows how wrong things are for the individual woman when there are political frameworks that are different from the best, and the figures that Marie Stopes International can show about the consequences of The Global Gag Rule over the last four years, are awful.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150432	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs for the last question in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150438	The consequences are terrible. The Minister is quite right, and that is why I am actually very, very pleased that, for my part, we have had the first such direct dialogue with the Minister on these issues here today. I am pleased that the Minister has confirmed that this is high on the agenda and that the future development policy strategy will not only deal with climate, which is of course important, but we cannot talk about climate without also considering the opportunities for women to contribute to sustainable development in developing countries. So just a final thank you for that, sir. Minister. And if there is a need for dialogue with both the Left's rapporteur in this area and also emphasised, then we are always available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150535	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150536	Of course, I thank you for that. These are not just words I hear, but I can also feel that it is really meant. After all, it is a question of drawing on all the competences and nuances and all the experience gained as a member of the Folketing and also in positions of having been ministers and having been in critical diplomatic dialogue. So I'll take it with me. As I said in my introduction, this is an area where Denmark has a leading position. That's what we tell ourselves. But I have already been confirmed in it by people from outside, that is, that we do. They have expectations for us. They expect us to have continuity and rigour and clarity in this area. I look forward to discussing this in the development policy strategy, but also to discussing it with the network here in the Folketing, which is a muscle without equal, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150627	Thank you to the Minister for Development Cooperation, and thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and Mrs Karen Ellemann as their authors. As the next question has been removed, Question Time is now closed. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has delivered: report and recommendation on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing. B 155). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210210150642	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 11 February 2021, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
