ParlaMint-DK_20210127130005	The meeting is open. Member of the Folketing Jens Rohde has informed me that he has resigned from the Radical Left's parliamentary group per year. 27 January 2021. Jens Rohde is then outside the groups. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly (Astrid Krag): Bill no. L 147 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Psychologists, etc.) Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 148 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy, the Biofuel Act, the Act on Natural Gas Supply and various other laws. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 149 (Proposal for a Law authorizing the termination of the double taxation agreement with Trinidad and Tobago) and Bill No. L 150 (Proposal for a law amending the law on equations, withholding tax and corporation tax). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 131 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an independent lawyer's examination of cases in which the Folketing has expressed criticism of ministers). Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Peter Skaarup (DF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 132 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the sale of fireworks for private use) Susanne Zimmer (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 133 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the promotion of cycling in commercial traffic, etc.). Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Eva Kjer Hansen (V), Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA): Request no. F 39 (What has the Minister been actively doing since the examination of draft parliamentary resolution B 138 in 2019-20 on the preparation of an updated version of the announcement of power to launch an update of the explanation of power in order to live up to the wishes expressed by Parliament's parties during the debate, as well as its own intentions to continuously discuss our democracy and become wiser in our media image and our social media and democratic conversations?). The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has delivered: report and recommendation on the Commission's report. B 134). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210127130210	I should like to begin by pointing out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice. First of all, to justify the question, Mr President, I give the rapporteur for the questions. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten, the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127130240	Thank you for that, President. We are currently in the midst of a global health and social crisis, a corona epidemic which, by its very nature, when it is a pandemic, is a global crisis. At the same time, we can also see that the distribution of vaccines is extremely uneven, because it is the case that when we are in pandemics, they are socially disadvantaged, and they also help to highlight the inequality that is already there. According to Oxfam, nine out of ten people in nearly 70 of the poorest countries will be without vaccine in 2021. At the same time, it is also the case that in both Denmark and the European Union we have vaccines to be able to vaccinate the population up to several times. That's why it's a little paradoxical. We have approved vaccines. We have vaccines that are active in the fight against covid-19. We also have a production capacity and also a spare production capacity in addition to those companies which have patents on these vaccines. In fact, we also have international tools that enable us to use the production capacity to produce vaccines that can benefit the whole world. Because it is the case that when we have to fight a pandemic, we have to do it nationally at home, but we also have to do it globally. We are currently seeing how there is both a British variant, a South African variant and a Brazilian variant. These are variants that mutate, and as long as the virus exists, it will mutate, and new variants may arise that may have reduced susceptibility to a vaccine. That is why we need to take advantage of the opportunities we have. Because if it is not now, when are we going to use the tools of international law? That is why we have raised the question here today with the following questions: Will the government investigate the possibility of activating the TRIPS mechanism for emergency licences and issuing emergency licences for EMA-approved covid-19 vaccines in order to ensure increased production and distribution of several vaccines nationally as well as internationally in the EU and WTO?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127130501	Thank you for justifying the request. Now it will be the case that it is first the Minister for Foreign Affairs who will have the opportunity to answer, then the Minister for Health, and after each minister's reply there will be a single brief remark from each of the rapporteurs. Thus, first of all, welcome to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127130527	Thank you for that, President. And thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund and the other questioners for having taken the initiative in the debate. To put it briefly, I fully agree that we will not get through the covid-19 crisis until everyone is through the crisis. It is clear when it is a pandemic we are dealing with here. That is why the government has already taken a number of steps to help countries that do not have as good conditions as we in Denmark in relation to access to vaccines, and we must continue to do so. There is a question about the right of the TRIPS Agreement to issue compulsory licences for covid-19 vaccines, and that is immediately also insidious. However, the possibility of compulsory licences has so far been very rarely used, and let me mention three possible explanations for this. The first reason is that if it is to work, there must be both know-how and production capacity in the country concerned to produce the medicinal product. It is not enough to have access to the patent, and this is very much true of the covid-19 vaccines. Another reason is that the TRIPS agreement includes: works well because it creates incentives for innovation and long-term investment, and therefore there has also been reluctance to use coercive instruments. A third reason is weak health systems, especially in developing countries. If the framework for the vaccines is not robust enough, for example. in terms of logistics and storage, it can in itself delay vaccine deployment. There is no broad international consensus that the instrument of coercion is at least at this stage the best, let alone an effective instrument in relation to covid-19, but Denmark is certainly responsive to countries that might think otherwise, and we are ready to discuss this further. In the meantime, we in Denmark will continue to work hard and determinedly to ensure that the EU has to show leadership in international work to ensure the best possible access to safe vaccines at global level. Here we have paid particular attention to the EU's neighbours and developing countries, and we have pressed for EU support for vaccination in the Western Balkans and in Ukraine. Multilaterally, we are involved in major support programmes in the EU, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. Bilaterally, we have given a total of 100 million. kr. in direct Danish support for the COVAX Facility and UNICEF. In addition, a total of 500 million will be added. kr. for health-related interventions in the three Danish covid-19 help packages for developing countries. But more needs to be done. There's still 5 billion missing. US dollars for the COVAX facility in 2021, of which the United States may deliver 4 billion. U.S. dollars. The Minister of Development will address the EU system and press for the Commission to assume additional responsibilities and ensure more funding for COVAX. I will conclude by saying that the major problems at global level in relation to the covid-19 vaccines hardly concern patent rights. Rather, the challenges are productive capacity, financing and weak health systems. This is where we have to start. Denmark is already involved in the work, and we will continue to do so. I look forward to a good debate here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127130855	Thank you, Minister. And then there is one brief comment, first from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127130859	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is also absolutely true that there is work going on in COVAX and all honour and respect for it; that is, of course, very important. However, this does not solve the basic problem of the capacity of vaccines, i.e. that there are not enough vaccines. For COVAX, it only helps to redistribute to a modest extent some of the vaccines that are available. I would therefore like to ask what the Minister says about Denmark's participation in international cooperation. Because it is the case that India and South Africa have raised the question of making a waiter, that is, a temporary suspension of patent rights, in order to be able to produce precisely because the assessment is that in both India and South Africa there is the capacity to produce on a different licence. The European Union has opposed this, among other things. with Denmark's support. So why does Denmark not go in and take the position that we support the request that comes from, for example. India and South Africa, to be able to use that waiter function to override licences so that production can be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131006	I would say to the rapporteur that I do not believe that compulsory licences or temporary suspension of the TRIPS agreement's protection of patent rights solves what is in fact the main problem, namely that currently there is a shortage of production capacity worldwide. And these days we are seeing the problems in this field in Europe of companies that already have the necessary know-how and capacity to produce covid-19 vaccines. However, they lack the volume of their production facilities to meet demand, and in the vast majority of low-income and developing countries there is neither a system of production capable of upgrading nor the necessary know-how. In addition, as I mentioned in my speech, there is the need for more funding and support for the inadequate health systems so that vaccinations can actually be carried out. This requires storage and distribution capacity and requires trained health professionals who are protected against infection with protective equipment, etc. So we work hard. We have a common goal: to get the vaccines rolled out as quickly as possible and to the entire population of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131109	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131111	Thank you. The Minister is quite right to say that it is important for the European Union to ensure leadership on this issue, but if we look a little further ahead than just today, we must ensure that there is a system that can get the vaccines rolling, but we must also ensure that there are vaccines for low-income countries. That is why India and South Africa, with the support of over 100 countries, have asked for this TRIPS mechanism to be used. So can the Minister not answer why it is that you do not support it, apart from COVAX, since some countries are saying that they have the capacity to do something here? When we look further ahead and we need these vaccines all around and not just look at a shortage today in Europe, why is that not leadership?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131155-2	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. What is crucial is that we get the vaccines produced and out as quickly as possible. There are currently vaccine manufacturers with approved vaccines or future approved vaccines, and their know-how and production facilities and their ability to scale production are essential, even in terms of cooperating via licences with others who can then produce these vaccines. So we're working hard on that. We want to get the vaccines out as quickly as possible and produced as far as possible. What I am just saying is that at this stage we do not see that a suspension of TRIPS, that is, the agreement on the protection of patent rights, solves the problem that we simply lack production capacity, know-how, knowledge and that we do not produce vaccines quickly enough. We need to get that cooperation out, and then we also have the Danish side, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has mentioned, emphasised leadership in the EU and stressed that we also have leadership in helping developing countries, not least. As far as developing countries are concerned, the 46 least developed countries, i.e. the LDCs, are exempt from the TRIPS rules, but that does not solve their problem of access to vaccines. So it is COVAX where Denmark invests actively in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131315	The next brief remark is to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131316	Thank you for that and thank the Secretary of State for his speech. In fact, I do not think there was any of what the Foreign Minister said that I did not agree with. I don't know if this is mostly addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs or to the Minister for Health, but the Prime Minister has been out to say that we need state vaccine production. How does that really harmonize with what the Foreign Minister has quite rightly said here from the platform? I just need to find out quietly what's up and down the government line on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131350	I would also like, out of respect for the rapporteur, to leave the answer to the minister responsible for health, and to say that, for example, when it comes to health care, it is a matter of TRIPS agreements and patent rights, it is not important to stress that this system is in place for the sake of vaccine manufacturers. It is in order to get innovation, developed as soon as possible, in this case vaccines that protect against covid-19. By having a system of patent rights, it can be ensured that the necessary investments ensure the incentive for speedy progress, and this benefits public health. That is why we have the system; it is not for the sake of the vaccine producers. But the question is more specific in relation to a possible Danish vaccine production, I will leave it to the responsible Resort Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131435	The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131439	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether there is any knowledge of pharmaceutical companies that could switch their production. I know that in the Covid-19 follow-up group we have asked the Minister and the authorities whether there was capacity in Denmark or there were companies that could, but it takes 4-6 months to switch production, and then we have to calculate production and so on. But has it been examined at foreign level whether there are pharmaceutical companies that say: we can do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131510-2	I can answer yes to that. In other words, we have done everything we can by the government to investigate: can more vaccine be produced, delivered more quickly? What about other pharmaceutical companies and their production equipment, other countries and their experience? Can you produce through licenses? Everything is on the table, but the truth is that it is not obvious, and there I am not technically competent to go into it. It is not the case to increase vaccine production from one week to the next; it may take several months, as the rapporteur has said, and therefore there is no easy way. But we are doing everything we can to produce as many vaccines as possible and get them delivered as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131553	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments. And the Minister for Foreign Affairs will prepare the platform for his colleague, because it has become the turn of the Minister for Health. Welcome to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127131621	Thank you. After all, this question is about the fact that we are facing not only a national challenge but a global challenge. We have a pandemic, which is why it is absolutely essential that we discuss and thoroughly examine this important issue. The rules on the granting of patents fall within the competence of the Ministry of Industry and they have informed me that the Danish rules on compulsory licensing, which we are talking about here, are contained in the Danish patent law. It is clear from the Patent Act that, where there are important general interests at stake, those who wish to exploit an invention for which another has a patent can obtain a compulsory licence for this, i.e. when there are important general interests at stake. The aim of the rules is to apply them where important general interests so require, including the supply of medicines and vaccines to the public. So it's definitely relevant to discuss this and investigate this. There are several things that need to be fulfilled before this instrument with a compulsory licence can be used. It may only be used if an agreement cannot obtain a licence on reasonable terms and whoever wants the licence must also be able to exploit the invention in a fair and sound manner and in accordance with the licence. This means that, as is the case here with vaccines, you must have a factory or a company that is actually able to produce the vaccine before you can obtain a compulsory licence for the vaccine that you want to produce. And then there is also a demand that we should always try first to reach an agreement with the company that owns the vaccine patent. However, this requirement may be waived for production to developing countries during a global pandemic. In Denmark, it is the Maritime and Commercial Court which first grants such a compulsory licence and lays down the terms of the licence • how long it is to apply, what payment is to be made and how it will be calculated. Here, both the State and the private undertaking concerned will be able to bring an action. We know that there aren't enough vaccines to meet the global needs right now, and right now there aren't enough to meet the Danish needs either. Everyone is struggling to get vaccines fast enough, and both from Denmark, from the European Commission and from the other EU Member States, there is a very active and very intense dialogue with pharmaceutical manufacturers in relation to increasing the production capacity of vaccines. At present, there is the clear impression that the challenges of vaccine production are on the capacity side. It is therefore not a question of companies with suitable production facilities not being licensed to produce, but of a lack of suitable production capacity. Therefore, everything that can be done to think new and put things into use must be done. Most recently, it has been described, also in Danish media, that the French company Sanofi helps Pfizer produce a large number of doses. Vaccines are, we must be aware, among some of the most complex medicines to produce, in the sense that they can only be produced at very advanced facilities, and unfortunately there are not so many of them. The Danish health authorities have been and are still in the process of examining, in close dialogue with Danish companies, whether there are Danish companies where it would be realistic to be able to offer either to produce the whole vaccine or to be a subcontractor in vaccine production in order to offer help to boost production and the faster the better. Until now, we have not been able to locate and find a company that would be able to lift it, but the work is still continuing, and there may be some subcontracting or other where it can suddenly make sense, and then we will be ready for it. It is then here and now the current global and Danish crisis. In addition, we must say that we are also learning something now that we see that vaccines cannot necessarily be seen only as a health offer, but are also seen as part of the overall national preparedness, and we must ask ourselves whether it is wise that in future we will be dependent on the priorities of few companies and that we cannot act as a nation ourselves. Therefore, as has also been announced by the Prime Minister, we will begin to consider whether it is possible to make a national vaccine response, preferably in cooperation with interested other countries and others for whom it might be relevant. We're doing everything we can to explore all the possibilities to ensure that as much capacity as possible is built up for the production of these vaccines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132127	Thank you, Minister. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132132	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I was fully uplifted here at the end when the Minister also indicated that it would be unwise to rely on a few private producers in relation to precisely ensuring the preparedness of vaccines. And that is what is at the heart of this question, so how do we avoid it? Because right now we are in a situation where we can see that there is a global pandemic. We know that this will have consequences, both at global level and at national level. That is why the question is also addressed to the Minister: why do we not take advantage of the opportunities that we now have, in other words, the possibility of obtaining an emergency licence through waiting, in other words breach of the patent rules? Why not make sure that we have the opportunities to make use of the capacity if it is possible to build it up? For that is the only way we can combat the pandemic, namely by ensuring that we produce as many vaccines as possible. So if this isn't the answer, what's the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132233	But we are in Denmark, as in the rest of the world, in an incredibly complex situation. This will certainly have to be investigated and there is clearly scope for ensuring, in the longer term, that, in one way or another, we, as a national state, together with other countries and perhaps also with private companies, build up something that can be a certainty in the future. One should also be aware that this gigantic race, which not only applies to us in Denmark, but also is a global race where these companies have developed completely new vaccine forms, that is, as we have never had before and which are now helping to save lives, is a race between the biggest investors and the smartest brains on a global scale. And there I think it would be completely unrealistic to think that Denmark as a nation can say that we can hire someone on a government board or somewhere else that can compete with the huge stakes. That's not where it's relevant. The relevant question is: When we have these developments, does this production have to happen far away from Denmark, and should we be dependent on things that we have absolutely no opportunity to influence, or can we ensure that there is also some capacity closer to or in Denmark forward-looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132351	The next brief remark is to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132352	The last thing the Minister says about state vaccine production, I simply do not understand. It has to be assumed that when the Prime Minister has been out saying that we must now have state vaccine production, then we must have some thought about how it will work. Is it the case that we have to have some production equipment ready for the next pandemic? So these semi-empty factory buildings that are ready for production to start next time we get a pandemic? Do we need some scientists to go around waiting for the next pandemic to break loose so that they can start researching? Or what kind of model is the Minister of Health and the government imagining here? I'm sorry, I don't mean to be naughty, but we're gonna have to get half a spade deeper into what kind of model the government is imagining.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132437	I'd love to. There is no finished model, and there are no countries doing anything we can say we want to copy. However, many countries, including Denmark, are asking themselves the question: should we really be so deeply dependent on conditions we have no chance of influencing, even in a future health crisis, or can we do something as a nation state with others, perhaps in the European Union, to ensure that we have more influence on what will happen and how to produce, research and bet when such health crises hit? Scientists don't have to wait. We have, for example. At the moment amazing researchers at the Statens Serum Institute, who are just developing an even more advanced and innovative form of vaccine, but it only has longer prospects, and it will then also have to be produced somewhere and where to produce it, it is far too early to say. It also depends on how you're doing with these tests you're doing. It is just to say that there is no finished model, but I think it is timely care to ask the question: what can we do to make sure that in future we are not completely at the mercy of producers who are on the other side of the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132546	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132549	Thank you. I would like to invite the Minister to try to think a little further forward. We know that we are faced with some huge challenges now and here to secure vaccines for Denmark, but we also know that even with the delays that are now, it is a foreseeable period of time in relation to having the Danish population vaccinated • those who want and can be vaccinated. So let's look a little further ahead and see how we get the whole world, because nobody's safe until everyone's safe. We know that the European Union has secured around 2.3 billion doses of vaccines to 450 million citizens; we know that the figure is proportional inverse if we look at the African Union. A hundred other countries? Is the Danish Government actively watching, then, when we have vaccinated and have a surplus of doses, to have them donated quickly, as Norway has reported out to the developing countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132652	Well, we've bought everything we've been able to get close to in Denmark, because we've been betting on all the horses that are even in this race. I think that's wise. And it also turned out how unpredictable it is, that even when delivery agreements have been made, there are sudden declines, sudden problems with these deliveries. And that means that everything that has been done six months ago turns out to be wise. This has meant that we in Denmark have secured the right to pre-empt vaccination against 23 million people. We are not so many in Denmark at all, and that means that if this goes well and if there is no revaccination, and if things do not happen in an unpredictable time, then we will have vaccines left over. I think it is too early now to go out with a report on what will happen to those vaccines, but it is clearly possible at the time when we have vaccinated everyone and there is no need for vaccines to the extent that the Danish population will be able to be donated or otherwise sent to another place where they can do good. At the moment, however, as the rapporteur also said, only one thing is involved: obtaining vaccines for the Danish population. There we have done it, that we have bought in plenty, and I think that was wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132801	The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132802	Thank you. My question is a little in line with the previous questioners, because they just asked the questions I would have asked in relation to these prior agreements for the purchase of 23 million doses of vaccine for the Danes. How long will this agreement be kept, because the question is, of course, also what we know in a year's time about how long the vaccine will last and so on. And it is also important if we are to be able to release the vaccines so that they can go to other countries. Is this something you do some calculations on either here in Denmark or at EU level, compared to the fact that there are a lot of pre-purchased vaccines?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132846	This will be an issue on which we need advice from the health authorities as we learn more about how long this immunity lasts and how well it works. These are completely new technologies which I also mentioned earlier, so there are things that we do not know today, but which we know later that they may work even better or that their effect will change over time. After all, we must follow all this very, very closely, so we are sure that we will not get back into a crisis situation. But there is no point in buying for a large store with freezers out at the Statens Serum Institut, where they should be so that that is not the purpose. The aim is to get the vaccines into use in Denmark as soon as possible, and that is also what we have done here. And when we have purchased so many vaccines, it is only to make sure that we have the best possible agreements as each vaccine is produced and approved. And then at some point, when we have finished vaccinationing the population and we know more about the vaccines and what we need, we will have to decide what to do with the remaining vaccines if
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132951	The next brief remark is to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127132953	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. A little in line with my colleague from the Left's question, there is of course a big difference between how much we can lift in Denmark as a relatively small country with lots of good researchers but still away a relatively small country and what we could do together in, for example. EU. Because if there is something we have learned, as the Minister also mentioned here, it is, of course, that in this situation there is not one solution; there are numerous solutions which many different companies have tried to find with success, others without. We have seen companies that have had to abandon their project after a small year of work. So how will the Minister ensure that we in Denmark have the opportunity to pursue every possible way of developing a vaccine? It is not one factory we are talking about here; it is not one production; it is not one type of knowledge; it is innumerable ways to do it, and it can be difficult to do for a small country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127133048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127133049	I totally agree. That is precisely why there is no solution. I do not think the current solution is satisfactory either, so how can we be better sure in the future? That must be our task. But let's just imagine that Denmark had not made agreements with these global producers, but had said that we produce our own vaccine. Then we should have been reasonably lucky if it was just our vaccine that became the one that came before all the others. Otherwise, we would have been in a situation without having vaccinated the older population, which we are currently doing here. That would have been fatal. In other words, what needs to be examined is not only in Denmark but also in countries that could have the same interest, but also in how we can secure ourselves. We have a dazzlingly good pharmaceutical industry in Denmark, and we also have vaccine production • not so much, but we still have something in Denmark. But is there anything where we could say that something could be built up, because this is still something where the state has to provide risk capital? Would it be possible to do something to ensure that we have something that could be put into effect in such a health crisis? But, of course, it will not be simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127133154	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister at this stage. We shall now proceed to the debate, which means that the general rules for short remarks will apply. The first to speak in this debate is the rapporteur for the questioners, who is Mr Beazley. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127133224	Thank you for that, President. We have called this inquiry debate with the hope that together we can find solutions to how we can secure more vaccines more quickly for ourselves and for the world's poorest. It is about making necessary political decisions and using the opportunities that are built into the system to deal precisely with global health crises such as covid-19. There are two basic tracks on which we would like to have a constructive debate today. The first is about what opportunities we have for politically initiating further vaccine production. Right now, producers are struggling to comply with bilateral agreements in relation to production and deliveries. This testifies to the need to set more people in motion to produce. It may well be that we, together with other European countries, can create state vaccine production. The second clue in today's debate is that we need to look beyond our own nose tip, because the pandemic is by its very nature global. WHO estimates that the total population of the world may not have received the vaccine until the end of 2024. It is a moral scandal and a huge bomb under global public health, both because of the incalculable derived effects, but also because the virus mutates and can come back to us here in Denmark, potentially affecting the effects of vaccines. The core of our common challenge at home and globally concerns the issue of patents and the restrictions imposed by the system on the production of vaccines for all, because today's bottlenecks are the production rate of a few producers. Now, as the crisis rages, we will talk about the options we have. We have three concrete options for action on which we would like to hear the views of the government and the other parties. The first option is about the muscle. The EU is a well-paying large customer of vaccine producers, and therefore it could be important for the EU, in bilateral contracts, to impose counter-requisites on vaccine producers to supply vaccines to poor countries, to ensure the possibility of outsourcing production to countries with production capacity, and basically to ensure greater transparency on contracts and conditions in them. Then there is another possibility: the so-called Waiver, that is, a temporary suspension of patients' rights, and to support the adoption of a declaration on a so-called Waiver under the auspices of the WTO, which means that Member States can lift patents and other intellectual rights which include specific covid-19, for example. vaccines, medicinal products and protective equipment necessary for the control of the pandemic. India and South Africa have proposed it, and 100 of the world's countries support it, but the EU is blocking it. Here Denmark should reverse its support for the EU's position and actively advocate the Waiver. The opportunities have been created for crisis situations, and this has been done before. Waiveren is temporary and will only apply here during the pandemic, while there is a need to produce more than producers can produce. Thirdly, we can look at the possibility of issuing emergency licences. We can make use of Article 31 of the so-called TRIPS agreement under the WTO to temporarily restrict patent protection with emergency licences for vaccine production, including, of course, financial compensation to patent holders. It is, of course, a procedure packed with bureaucracy and legal reservations that makes it difficult for low-income countries to join, but it is certainly worth looking at for Denmark, including with a glance at the possibility of exporting excess vaccines when the time is right. Here, of course, the issue of our production capacity is relevant, but it is worth looking into in practice. The measures may mean that we have to pay compensation, but this is probably not something comparable to the price of shutting down the world community and going into the next few years with fear of what mutations can occur, not to mention the lives we can save. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that we should pursue all three tracks and hope that today we can agree that at this time of crisis we must look for all possible options. The vaccination bet is not a zero-sum game or a race. No one's safe until everyone's safe. That is the premise that we can open up the world. So should we not together promote these three measures to ensure that we produce much more vaccines much faster, not by breaking the rules, but by using them for what they are meant for? That should be the way we should go, because if it isn't now, when is it? Thank you for the floor. Then I have a proposal for adoption which I would like to make on behalf of SF and EL: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that during the covid-19 pandemic there is a need for faster production of a sufficient number of vaccines. The Government is obliged to work to increase production capacity by backing the WTO for a patent-waiver and issuing emergency licences, as well as by bilateral contract conclusion to work for joint distribution and production. • V 64)
ParlaMint-DK_20210127133722	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127133745	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this debate on vaccines. That is probably the question that concerns us all right now and here: when can we all be vaccinated? When can we go to football, to concerts, to many more social events and all the things we took for granted not so long ago? Since we saw the first vaccines in Denmark at Christmas time, tens of thousands of Danes have been vaccinated, and some have also already received number two. Our health services have proved incredibly effective in making vaccines useful in Denmark, but unfortunately we have also seen delays in relation to the deliveries we have been promised. And there is no doubt that we in the Social Democratic Party naturally share the frustration and concern about having to wait. When we have not just one but two approved vaccines, we want to get production up in gear and get even more vaccinated. Nor is there any doubt that we are also deeply concerned that sooner or later the vaccine will benefit the rest of the world, including the poorest countries, both because it is fair and right to do so, but also because, if we do not act, we risk new and even more dangerous mutations as long as there is no control of the virus. That is why we can also support the fact that the government is looking into ways of increasing production. I have listened to the fact that the government will work hard to ensure more and faster vaccines, and we should very much like to see increased production capacity, and this is being worked on, among other things. through the EU. When it comes to the question of activating the emergency licensing mechanism of the TRIPS Agreement, I would also like to be somewhat sceptical. It is a mechanism that can be used in exceptional cases where it has not been possible to make agreements with suppliers. It is clear that the epidemic has shown that we were not well prepared when it comes, for example, to test equipment and protective equipment, and now we have a shortage of vaccines. It also raises a fundamental debate on what is a critical infrastructure for society, and here we need to pay much more attention to ensuring a solid supply, and this requires binding international cooperation. However, it is important to bear in mind that, although we are currently frustrated by the waiting time, it is actually quite impressive that we already have several approved vaccines one year after this virus hit us. This is partly due to the fact that there has just been massive investment in researching and developing this new vaccine, among other things. in cooperation between the public and private sectors. We would not want to break up the good cooperation if, to use a colourful expression, we were to declare war on the companies that have developed the vaccine, i.e. through Denmark's having to sue the companies through the Danish courts. We need to increase production, but this must be done in cooperation with industry. In Denmark, the issue of compulsory licences is precisely regulated by the patent law, and it is therefore not the government that issues compulsory licences, but, as I have said, the courts, and if a company or the government wants to produce vaccines that are protected by a patent, then there must be legal proceedings, and that is not something that the Social Democratic Party sees as an appropriate path to take. That is why we are fully in favour of the government continuing its work of increasing production and securing more vaccines, both nationally and globally. This requires international cooperation, and it requires cooperation with the industry that has developed the vaccine. Finally, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The government is invited to work together with the European Commission, the governments of other countries and industry to increase production capacity for the distribution of several vaccines, both nationally and globally. • V 65).
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134212	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is it possible to get a copy of the adoption text here up to the chair? It is also, of course, part of the forthcoming negotiations. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's only from Mr. Knox's office. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134230	I simply cannot understand why the Royal Danish Social Democratic Party has become so foot-to-mouth and visionless and trashy in the ass of excuses, then trash the problems instead of being a little visionary. When the Social Democrats created SSI many years ago, it was visionary, and Denmark was the leader in the TB effort. There were plenty of people at that time who said: it is so complicated, we have to leave it to the private. But visionary Social Democrats also said that it was expensive at the time: no, we must also help to ensure the health of this country in the public sector, even if it is complicated. What is it that keeps saying that it is the market with companies that has to solve it? Because that's what you're saying today. When the market cannot solve it, why should we not immediately start trying something else? You say it takes 6-8 months to build up a business. Then there's no reason to hesitate, then we'll have to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134337	It is quite new to me, both as a member of parliament and as a historian, that the Enhedslisten and the parties that formed the Enhedslisten have ever regarded the Social Democracy as visionary. I'm glad. It may be that you do not do it now, but historically there have been cases. Because I have not seen evidence of this anywhere but in this Chamber. In my view, it is quite visionary to work with the industry to cooperate with the public and private sector when we are hit by the accident that it is that the whole world has been hit by the covid-19. The greater the trust, and the more it is an equal cooperation, which also ensures that that industry can continue to research and invest in life science and not have to worry about whether they are suddenly being cheated on the finish line, the better we are equipped to deal with both the current health crisis and also future pandemics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134437	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134439	Surely this presupposes mutual trust. These companies got it all delivered on a silver platter. 90% of all research is paid for by the public sector, and as you manage to find some models, you deliver them nicely to the companies and say: Here you can produce and distribute and take the profit of it. Surely that is a very one-sided way of trusting each other. I would like to ask: when should what the public authorities are doing be followed up by requirements for these companies? When they can't deliver now, others have to deliver. That's the logic of the market. Ask a liberal about it. It is the logic of the market that if a company cannot deliver, then the next must do it or the next.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134523	There's more than one link to this. One might say that the first part of what is about developing this vaccine, I think we all have to recognise has gone beyond expectations. It's very impressive to see that it can be a tested and well-functioning vaccine already about a year after we got hit by this virus. That's the first thing. The second is production and mass production, which must ensure that there is for all of us. It has proved to be challenging, and that is where we have to push with everything we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134558	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134559	Thank you. I must then call on the rapporteur to go back to the historical annals and see what was in socialist programmes of principle from the beginning of the 1900s. It may be that there were some things there that even one of the Enhedslisten could find visionaries. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is when the rapporteur says that we should not wage war on industry. I agree with that. That's not what this is all about. The purpose here is to wage war on the pandemic instead. That is why the question is why we should not take advantage of the opportunities that exist. We know it's a global pandemic. We know that it will be important, also for Denmark, that the virus can return in mutated form. And when countries such as India and South Africa are seriously asking for a waiter under the auspices of the WTO to ensure that low-income countries can also be produced, precisely in order to combat the epidemic at global level, why is it that the Socialists stand on the side of the EU and the government stand on the side of the EU and vote against giving it the opportunity when India and South Africa ask for it themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134712	Well, I think the explanation that Enhedslisten also received from the Minister is that it is not the right tool for the problem we face. The problem here, the challenge, is not to develop the vaccine. It has been in the past, but that is not the challenge now. The challenge now here is to get production capacity up, and that is the challenge all around. That is what we need to focus all our energies on, not to start running a trial against the industry and try to take the patent from the pharmaceutical industry and thus also remove their economic incentive to do something like this miraculous scientific work they have delivered sometime in the future. But the focus should be on increasing production, and that is where we must push for everything we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134811	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134812	Now I think it is important to bear in mind that the development of a vaccine has, of course, mainly taken place for public funds. So it's because massive funds have been invested, both by the Danish government, but also within the EU and by other governments, in developing this vaccine. The pharmaceutical industry is currently in operation. the only ones who have the production capacity to be able to produce it and also have the volume to be able to do the final phase three experiments. But why is it that we are not trying to use the production capacity that is also under private control to ensure that we get as many vaccines produced as possible? Because this isn't a matter of trial or of bothering anyone. It is a question of fighting a pandemic, and we do so by producing as many vaccines as we possibly can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134857	I agree, of course, with the intention of exploring all possible ways of increasing production, and I fully agree with the consideration given to the state funding of research in general, but also particularly in the field of medicine and health as a whole. It's a huge gift for all of us; the more we can do it, the better. It's gonna pay off in the long run. But what Enhedslisten is proposing today is not the right way forward, and it does not solve the problem we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134928	The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127134929	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. What is so difficult in this debate is that we both have to look out into the world and that at the same time we have a huge task at home. It is also to look forward to the future, even though we are now and here facing some challenges we are trying to solve. But it is also just necessary that we dare look both out and further into the future. I have to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur: it is not the government's rapporteur, but the Social Democratic Party's rapporteur, if it makes an impression when over 100 countries ask that we activate this TRIPS mechanism. When international organizations like UNAIDS, Doctors Without Borders, WHO etc. If a great many Members of this House, including a great many of the rapporteur's party comrades from the European Social Democrats, say that this is the right way to go, why are we standing here so foot-timing? And why does the Social Democratic Party support us being foot-timing on this point instead of going all in this debate and pushing for within the European Union? I do not see this as a fight against the European Union. No, I ask how it is that we can raise this voice within the Council. When the European Parliament is on board, we might be able to move on to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135051	Yeah, that makes an impression. No, we do not want to be and do not regard either the government or the social democracy as a foot-to-mouth situation in this situation. I sense that we are quite in agreement on what the problem is, but then we are rather divided on what it is that is the tool to solve these problems. As I have said sometimes, the focus should not, in my view, be on removing patent rights or running legal proceedings from the Danish Government against the pharmaceutical industry. I would think that was a very, very unfortunate thing to be thrown into. But that is what will be the consequence if we want to remove patent rights from a pharmaceutical industry. Then in practice this will mean that the Danish Government will have to run a trial. We do not want to do that and we do not want to spend any time on it. On the contrary, we would rather push, as the SF rapporteur also says, within the European Union to increase production.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135153	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135153-2	But now I'm trying again with the global view. This is not about the Danish state running legal proceedings against the pharmaceutical industry. This is about us activating a mechanism that is already in an international trade organisation. This is about some countries asking us to do so, just as some countries did at the beginning when we were given medicines to help with the HIV/AIDS pandemic. So it is not Denmark that is going to trial. That's not what I'm talking about. I am actually advocating that we in the European Union join the large, large majority of countries in the WTO that want to do this, and all these organisations that are going to help us fight the pandemic. I just haven't heard any answers to what you want, other than looking at a little production development, etc. What does this do in relation to the prices of these vaccines, which the developing countries will never be able to participate in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135244	After all, this is all something that must be negotiated primarily the last, as the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, is concerned with ensuring that there are also vaccines for countries outside the EU and countries that do not necessarily have money for such things. There must be some affordable models, not just for their sake, but for all of us, so that it can actually be done for all countries to vaccinate their populations where necessary. This is a major task that we will not solve here today or tomorrow, but which is what Denmark must play an important role in, including in the EU context, also with regard to the pharmaceutical industry, in order to negotiate fair solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135326	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135348	Thank you. I would like to insist on being a polite person, so thank you to the Enhedslisten for having raised this question debate. The background is serious enough, even if the desired solution is, in our opinion at least, a little more realistic in a question debate here in the Danish Parliament than in the real world. A worldwide epidemic has in many places challenged health care and, for that matter, our entire society. After all, we all want to provide vaccines as soon as possible so that we can return to a normal everyday life so that children can get to school more quickly, adults can get back to work, older and vulnerable groups can get their security back and businesses can make money again. That's the kind of thing we care about in the Left, Mr. President. Peder Hvelplund. For the time being, a number of companies have developed the vaccines that are currently being deployed in most of the world and also in Danish vaccination programmes. They have done so for commercial purposes, I acknowledge that, and this is essentially not different from all sorts of other companies that start up their production every morning, because they are proud of their products, but also with the desire to provide a profit and some income to owners and employees. I guess that doesn't surprise a lot of people. The pharmaceutical industry's rapid response to developing vaccines and treatment for covid-19 is made possible due to large libraries of molecules, tools and expertise, knowledge, know-how. Accessibility to the enormous knowledge is made possible by the principles we know as intellectual property rights or the more earthly concept of patent protection. It is the protection of intellectual property that has made innovation unprecedented through cooperation between the pharmaceutical industry, governments, universities and other research partners. This certainly shows me that the encouragement of research works. Although there is an entirely justified annoyance in relation to the promised deliveries, the system is basically intact, in my opinion. To resort to compulsory licenses you call it a little nicer emergency licenses... will, in my best opinion, smash the incentives for research at future pandemics. The development, authorisation and launch of new medicines is a long, costly and costly process, and it is also a very risky process which I believe is well placed with the research partners we know. I believe that compulsory licences will create an uncertain situation that will ultimately affect patients and citizens, will affect investments, will have a negative impact on innovation. Forced licences undermine confidence in investing and in launching new medicines. The granting of compulsory licences has, and will, in my opinion, have a dampening effect on investments and can in fact cause political uncertainty which has long-term effects on the overall health infrastructure, contrary to what I believe to be the intention of the questioners. So, in the end, such an exercise, which Enhedslisten is setting up here, will, in the best of my knowledge, harm patients, harm Danes, harm the citizens of the world community, and I do not think that is the purpose of the proposal. The Left can support the proposal for adoption made just now by the Socialist rapporteur. It was, of course, a proposal for adoption, which certainly did not say too much, and I should like to welcome the Conservative rapporteur and say that we agree with the text adopted. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135758	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135802	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. After all, we fully share the ambition that we should open society up as quickly as possible, both for the sake of society in general, but also, of course, for the sake of jobs and productivity, and we know that any postponement of the vaccination plan has direct economic consequences. It is estimated in the United States that a delay of one day will cost 10 billion. US$1 billion in Denmark. kr., each time we postpone it and therefore it is important for the reopening of society and also for the economy that we get vaccinated as soon as possible. That is why I cannot fully understand the rapporteur's argument. Because right now we are in a situation where we have some opportunities within the agreements that have been made. It is not a question of conducting legal proceedings and everything else, but it is a question of using the opportunities offered by international agreements, because when we find ourselves in a special situation, when there are serious health and socio-economic reasons for it, there is that possibility. For doing so would be a gain both for the economy and for public health. Then why not use those options? Because if not now, when? When else are these options supposed to be used if it isn't now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127135917	Let's ignore all that legal and legal stuff, and let's take it as a matter of principle. Firstly, as one of the ministers, whom I do not remember who was, as far as the specific remark is concerned, it is possible to discuss in the short term whether or not we should really put some of the production equipment that might have been available around us. Firstly, I do not think that is a simple matter because it may not be there. But the thing about making such a plug and play with a covid-19 vaccine in some production hall out in Ballerup, I think, second of all, is an illusion, sir. Peder Hvelplund. So it's like the short-term. With regard to the longer term, I am basically nervous that we are now saying to the pharmaceutical industry: the next time we need you, you will hear what happens, we will chop your patent and make it a state-owned patent. In fact, we risk not wanting to take part in this exercise another time. That is what I fear will be the long-term consequence of what Mr. Peder Hvelplund believes that it can be done and where I can understand that in a moment of desperation such a drastic instrument will suddenly be resorted to. But I think it has some long-term consequences, which neither Mr. Peder Hvelplund or I can see through.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140031	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140031-2	But I don't imagine we're just gonna start producing out in Ballerup. On the contrary, I am listening to what is said by the WHO, and I am listening to what is said by both India and South Africa, so that there is the possibility of doing so. It is not easy and it will take time, but we are also in a global health crisis. Then I have to say with all due respect that it is not only the pharmaceutical industry that has developed these vaccines, but that it has primarily been done for public funds. Pfizers was from BioNTech, AstraZeneca was from Oxford University. There is, of course, a large underforest of researchers who have supplied basic research to these vaccines, and they are largely financed by public funds. So why should we not, when we help to pay for the development of vaccines, ensure that they are then produced for the benefit of the whole of public health?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140117-2	Yes, but it's basically a different system, sir. Peder Hvelplund argues in favour of this, which I think is a dangerous way to go because we have outsourced that task to someone who would like to risk something. And it's not just crowns and ears, but it's also know-how that you can risk, if I may say so, in these companies. And I think it's dangerous if you start putting that system at risk in such a moment of desperation. Because it has far - reaching consequences, even in relation to what we might run into in future pandemics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140156	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140158	Thank you. The text of your adoption states that the three proposals we have tabled are not good proposals, and so what? Isn't something gonna happen anymore? Should the market just be allowed not to solve the problem? As a liberal, I think it is quite a strange situation we are in. We, as the public, have provided the research for 90 per cent of universities and all sorts of other public institutions, and we have, on top of that, given these companies a monopoly-like state, which I thought a liberal was opposed to, in order to be allowed to make money on the market. Yet they cannot deliver. Is it not time, then, that we said that some others should also be allowed to come to? Surely we should not have a monopoly society where some companies can just get one end and the other end? I mean, it doesn't have anything to do with the market economy, but it has something to do with the monopoly economy, and the liberals have always been opposed to it since my socialist youth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140306	It's kind of like finding out who's the liberal. I usually take that cape on me, and if Mr. Cole doesn't like it... Christian Juhl wants to be a part of it, so I'm fine with it. There is no monopoly situation, sir. Christian Juhl. It is, of course, a tender business if you are to cut it all the way to the bone. Well, there's more than one supplier on the market here. It's not really that complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140332	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140333	But we have just heard two ministers and we have just heard the rapporteur himself say that there are not enough vaccines at the moment. The market cannot deliver. However, it is quite strange in a situation where the most profitable industry, except for the arms industry, is the pharmaceutical industry. Then it should be strange if other companies could not and would not help deliver if we used the tools we have at our disposal. It is a strange inertia to say: no, no, now some have been allowed to do it, and then they have to do it, and if they can't, then we lean back a little. Come on, give me some energy. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, If you discard the three proposals we have put forward, then there is something else to do. Anyone can see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140416	I understand that kind of socialist progressiveness. It's always about nationalising something, and then you're extremely progressive. Well, I'm just not there, and I don't really think, sir. Christian Juhl takes into account the long-term consequences of his views. Because it's just gonna happen that this type of company that has developed these vaccines that have developed these vaccines doesn't have the incentive to do it another time, and then Mr. Christian Juhl with his hair in the mailbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140450	The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140453	Thank you. I am a little curious to hear the rapporteur's solutions. For the solution that has come from over a hundred countries, from the WHO and UNAIDS, that we need to use some of the mechanisms that we have already agreed globally, in what I believe cannot be described as a socialist organisation, i.e. the WTO, is not good enough. This is a bad solution, although it is a solution that we have and agree to be used when we have a pandemic. So what are the solutions? Because the problem is that if we only stand and pay attention to what happens next month in Denmark in relation to these vaccines, we shoot ourselves in the foot. If we do not take the steps that mean that we are being vaccinated globally, that we are doing something about the fact that it is actually a pandemic, then what? So what are the answers and what are the solutions? That is actually what I am a little asking for, because I think I heard a lot of 'no' and that everything is going well and that it is the market that solves it and that it is fine as it is. But when we look at some developing countries where they may not have vaccinated until 2024 it is a disaster.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140604	What did Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist imagined if Danish vaccine production, in terms of covid-19, with all possible respect, should have taken place in the framework of the Statens Serum Institute, honestly? In other words, I am in favour of the Danish Government taking the lead in the international fora where it is, as it were, in getting some sort of plan for what we are doing globally, including in relation to developing countries. I think you should do that. However, there is no alternative to the development of vaccines on the market. Rasmus Nordqvist. And I just want to repeat the message from my introduction here: What did Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist imagined that we're setting up some state vaccine production here, which should have been at the forefront of this development? It's totally illusory.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140656	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140657	It is funny that the link used by the rapporteur of the Left is between using the TRIPS mechanism and thinking that I think there should be one hundred percent Danish national vaccine production. That's not what we're talking about at all. I'm talking about how we get vaccines out all over the world. There is a mechanism on which we agree globally in some agreements within the WTO. You don't want to use them. It's not about Danish production. It is really about allowing production in, for example, India and South Africa. This will not be used by the Left, but what will be done if we look a little further into the world again than only within our own borders to bring developing countries along? What will be done by the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140736	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist does not look into the future. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist simply does not know the consequences of what he himself proposes. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist will simply smash the incentive for international vaccine manufacturers to go forward and throw themselves at developing a vaccine next time God forbid the coming global pandemic. That is simply the consequence of it, and as I am somewhere among all of you. Rasmus Nordqvist's many words like you sense what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140814	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party. It's Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127140835	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party for raising the debate. This is something we are all talking about: vaccinate and rightly so. Because in relation to this corona crisis, it's important that we can just secure our most vulnerable. At least that's what we in the Danish People's Party think is the most important thing in this debate. That is why we all rejoiced when the vaccine came to Denmark. Especially the elderly in our nursing home could see the light. They had been locked in, some of them in loneliness, where they had not been able to see their family. They could see the light, for now they could get the vaccine and come out and get some fresh air and a good cup of coffee with their relatives. At the same time, however, we have also felt the frustration of all those who believe that they are not high enough. And I can also agree with that view. However, the problem has also been that if we are to prioritize some others before, there are others that need to be taken out. Now we can see that these two vaccine companies, with which we have agreed through the EU, suddenly do not deliver what was expected in Denmark, and we can also see that this is why we hear various reports about people who want the vaccine every day, who need it, will be higher on the list and who blame those who are now getting it. As recently as today we have heard that there are some who believe that the over 85-year-olds should not have it. I mean, a really poor, unethical debate. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we have to say that we support the authorities in the priorities they have set, and we agree that we have to get Denmark through it first, before we help others, exactly the same way as when you are on a plane. If you're gonna help your kids sitting next to you and if you're about to crash, the oxygen masks are gonna fall, you're gonna put on the oxygen mask yourself, and you're gonna help the others afterwards. 2.1 billion The euro has just been made available from the European Union to producers participating in the EU vaccine strategy, and at the same time 750 billion have been invested. euro. It gives a lot of money to these eight companies with which we, as part of the European Union, have made agreements. Nevertheless, two pharmaceutical companies have not been able to meet the agreement that has been reached with regard to deliveries, even though we have actually helped to pay for production. So, of course, we need to go after the pharmaceutical companies, and I understand that I heard the message from the EU that you will do, that is to say you will check what comes out of the country, beyond the EU's borders. In fact, I think that is sensible enough. Of course, we also need to see if you can make emergency licences in some places. But we in the Danish People's Party do not want it to be forced, which it will be if you do what Enhedslisten and SF propose. Of course, we need to look at what can be changed and who can do what. We now know that Japan has a license to make AstraZeneca's vaccine. So agreements of this kind can be made with the pharmaceutical industry, and that is one of the things I hope you will work on from the Danish Government along with the others, which is also in the text that we are in. Because this is a challenge and we must also help globally. But for the Danish People's Party it is important that we just look down on what we have here, get the Danish population vaccinated and look back on what the vaccines can and how much there is: Is there something in excess and how can we help the other countries? We think this is the most important thing, and that is why we also agree with the text read out by the Social Democrat rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141246	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141251	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for her speech. Denmark first, says the rapporteur. It is clear that we need to focus on Denmark, but we only have that by ensuring that we also combat the pandemic at global level. For the challenge is that the vulnerable and elderly here at home, on which we have the same focus as the Danish People's Party, are also exposed to a South African variant, to a Brazilian variant and to other mutations that arise. So even if we put on the very narrow nationalistic glasses, there is an interest in ensuring that the vaccine is also spread out at global level to prevent new mutations that affect ourselves in the neck. So how will the Danish People's Party ensure that we avoid it if we are to focus on helping the citizens here in Denmark as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141347	As the ministers before me have said, money has been set aside for an emergency response where we are actually giving money for the purchase of vaccines in developing countries. And I mean what I said earlier: we must help Denmark first. I am elected by Danish citizens to look at Denmark first, and then we help the others. We're not saying we shouldn't help anyone else. We're just saying that we need to ensure that the Danes are given priority first. Because there is a debate going on at the moment, and I have now reached the point where the debate on priority for vaccines is actually worse than the Coronapandemic itself, because one thinks that it is more important than the other. And should we also look at it globally, should we look at what is most important: a South African health worker or a 20-year-old in Denmark? That is the debate you will get out of it if you want to go after the paragraph of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141439	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141440	I have to say there: on the contrary. Because this is precisely about ensuring that we get a greater supply of vaccines because demand is so high. When priority discussions arise, it is because demand far exceeds supply, and therefore the answer is not that we have to put one in the front line and push the other further back, but that is that we have to take advantage of the opportunity that is available to produce as much vaccine as possible. There are opportunities for this today, including through international agreements. So why should we not take advantage of this opportunity to ensure that we produce as many vaccines as possible, so that we increase supply to the enormous demand there is?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141521	But we must produce as many vaccines as possible. We just don't have to do it by force. We are against coercion, both to get a forced vaccine and to produce a vaccine. Spain just came out with a new vaccine. As we heard from the beginning, 170 people were researching vaccines. They're running. We're just in the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141544	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141546	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for clarifying the wrong view of the rapporteur of the Left. He said the company is developing. That is not true, and it was well documented here with all the money that has been given to companies to develop it, and then an exclusive, i.e. a monopoly, to be allowed to earn money from it afterwards. I am thinking: is it not also to secure pensioners in Denmark against the new mutations if we could quickly shut down in the poorest countries while protecting ourselves? Because I guess we don't want those two, three, four, five, six mutations or maybe hundreds, or whatever, into the country, and we don't want any medicine for it, and then we're about to make a new medicine, which then takes another two years. It is better that we increase our efforts. After all, we can afford to do it at home while we do it out there. But I think it is important that we do both. It's not Denmark first with the new ones, and we have to be a little ahead of this disease to cope with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141653	Well, I do not disagree that we should do something and that we should also try to do it at the same time and so on. But there will also be more and more vaccines. There are only two we can get at the moment, and now we hope for the third, AstraZeneca. We see that Japan has already made an agreement that they can produce for themselves, we have India making a vaccine, and we have the Russians making a vaccine. In other words, many people are beginning to do so, and there of course we need to have that dialogue, and I hope that this is where we are going to fight hard, including those companies that are trying to cheat us or what they are doing. It has to be investigated, and then you have to try to make some arrangements. Because we've put money in this, and we've been involved in producing and ensuring that a vaccine came so quickly. So we have a part in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141738	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141740	But we can hardly get too much production at the moment, to put it bluntly, and that is why it is a good idea to open up, not to force anyone to produce a production, but to open up and release the right to produce a production. It's not coercion, but it's exactly the opposite we're proposing. We say that more people must start producing so that we can deliver what we need. For the market it cannot at the moment, and then it is a good idea to open up. After all, it is the public sector that has paid for research, and then it is reasonable to say that we must then give it free, instead of talking about coercion. That's a strange word in this context. It's just the opposite that's going in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141814	Well, it means the same thing, i.e. whether you're taking the patent from someone who's been working on this for so many years. We basically know that the vaccine from Pfizer is something that you have been working on for decades and that you have now used for this vaccine. So, of course, there is a pharmaceutical company that has researched it before.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141833	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur, who is ready to come to the well-cleaned platform, is Mr. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127141851	Thank you very much for the floor and thank you, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund to put the debate here on the agenda. It is actually quite impressive when you think about what has happened in the past year. If I had been asked in the spring of 2020 whether we would have had a vaccine against corona within a year, I would have said: No, of course not. For this kind of thing takes many years, and it takes enormous resources, but not only do we today have more approved and effective vaccines, but we also have more on the way. And we have succeeded because we saw a fantastic cooperation across national borders and between public and private actors, because a pandemic in its nature affects all of us, and it has borne fruit. We are now in the process of vaccination in a large number of countries, but it is certainly not without problems. We have experienced this at home and in the rest of the European Union, where we do not receive the promised doses, but that affects, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund also mentioned, mainly the poorest countries. These are two different issues which both need to be addressed. I share the concern about vaccination in the poorest countries, and I also believe that we have an international responsibility to address that challenge within the European Union. It is also clear that, for example, if we in the European Union have many times more doses than we really need, they should benefit others. However, that is not the challenge right now. On the contrary. I do not agree with the solution of compulsory licensing. First of all, what several people have mentioned is, among other things, that we should not forget. the Minister for Foreign Affairs, not only to have access to a patent, but also to have production capacity and to have the right skills. To produce medicines and vaccines, especially vaccines with an entirely new technology, which is what we are talking about right now, is not simple, and just because two companies are both a pharmaceutical industry does not mean that production can be exchanged between the two. We are also concerned about how this will affect the whole area of research and production in the field of health, on which we are all dependent. This will have major consequences which will affect not only industry but all of us. There are many years of research and work behind what we see the fruit of now, and it is potentially dangerous to cast doubt on the basis on which it is all based. Finally, the reason why we already have several vaccine candidates who are either approved or close to approval is precisely because we are ensuring good public-private cooperation, where state funds have indeed been used to get industry to prioritise corona vaccines over other projects. It was a success for some people we have seen with Pfizer and Moderna while others have had to give up and see their work wasted. We saw this very recently with Merck, who had to give up their project. I can be concerned about what possible future cooperation will look like if the need arises again during a new pandemic, if we now take the step proposed by Enhedslisten. I fully agree that we must have as many doses as possible produced as possible as quickly as possible and, of course, with respect for safety and purity, but it just cannot be forceed. That is why I am pleased to see that the cooperation that we saw at the beginning of the pandemic is once again flourishing. Within this week, as I recall, Sanofi has offered to produce 100 million doses of the vaccine from Pfizer, and we have heard from Mrs Liselott Blixt that there are similar agreements, for example. Japan, and hopefully there will be much more of it. Those who can will bid. In my view, Denmark is obviously too small to carry out this task alone. There is not one answer and we do not know what the answer is in advance and having the capacity for all possible solutions is unrealistic. On the other hand, we do have volume, knowledge and businesses across the European Union that can carry out the task in the long term, and this is a system that we should clearly set up so that we are ready for a similar challenge in the future. It is already well known and well-functioning in the pharmaceutical industry, just as it is certainly in other industries, that parts of the production can be outsourced to other companies that can carry out part of the task. We're gonna need that mapped out, so we're gonna be ready next time. So this is an extremely complex problem, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund quite rightly points out, and there are rarely simple solutions to complex challenges. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142251	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142257	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Stinus Lindgreen for the speech. We are just facing the challenge right now that we can see that at the rate of vaccination that is now, we will be at 2024 before we have vaccinated at global level, and I know that the rapporteur fully agrees that this is a huge challenge. There is, of course, the possibility in the TRIPS agreement under the WTO that, in exceptional cases, a waiter can be entered into, for example, where the patent is not repealed, but only suspended during a crisis period. It's just a mechanism that's designed for situations like this. After all, when you have made it in an organisation such as the WTO, it is to ensure that it should not stand in the way of us, when we are in a huge social or socio-economic crisis, so that we can use precisely the capacity there is. It's not just an easy solution or something we can just do or where we can just plug in a plug, and then the production runs somewhere else. But it is precisely an opportunity to ensure that if there is capacity, it can be used. What is the argument for not doing so when the opportunity is there and we are in such a crisis right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142409	The argument is that so far I have not seen that it is not being lifted in any other way. We have just seen Sanofi bid in and say: We have abandoned our own project. We'd like to produce one of those that works. We've seen other companies do it. My guess is that, for example. Merck, who has just had to give up their own vaccine project, will now have available capacity. Maybe they'll bid if they have the chance. It should also be remembered that a vaccine is not just a vaccine. The technology provided by Pfizer, for example. Very few are able to produce new technology. Just because some industry makes vaccines doesn't necessarily mean they can lift the vaccine production it's important to remember. So this is extremely complicated. As I said, we're seeing this cooperation pop up again. I hope there's more of that coming... I'd think was the way forward. That is also what I hear the ministers say, so you are pushing to see what we can do and how, on a voluntary basis, we can get other companies to carry out that task if they have the capacity and if they have the know-how to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142502	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142503	Well, I fully agree that it is different technologies that are behind it. For example: AstraZeneca's vaccine would also be much more useful to roll out into low-income countries, compared to how it should be stored and something like that. The WTO writes, even if it is possible to make a waiter or to make emergency licences, that the possibility of testing private solutions, i.e. private licences, is not a condition that it has been tested before moving on to the possibility of issuing emergency licences. So it's not a either-or, it's also a boat-and, because it takes time. What is the reason why we should not ensure that this possibility can continue to be exploited? Denmark could, of course, take the lead, through international cooperation, in raising the appeal that comes from India and South Africa and 100 other countries, Doctors without Borders, the WHO. Why should we not seize that opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142558	Well, we're in the middle of a global crisis, a pandemic, like Mr. Peder Hvelplund has also rightly pointed out several times, and care must be taken to act in a panic based on the situation picture that is right now. We must remember that soon we will not have one or two or three, but many more vaccines available, including one from among others. Johnson & Johnson, which will be significantly easier to administer. It requires one plug and can be stored in a way that does not require -70-degree freezers. It will change the picture completely. I think one should be careful to think that now we just have to produce a lot of Pfizer vaccines because we can. I think we should wait and see what happens when this vaccine image changes, and it does so very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142633	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142635	I am shocked by one liberal thinking after another, which distances itself from the free market, which can develop and perform what we need, and it is said that free competition is healthy and I do not know what. When it comes down to it and we really are... It's a strange way of thinking. I don't understand it at all. Denmark is too small, they say. Yes, it may be true that Denmark is too small, but in the Nordic Council we have just set in motion a huge project in which we are fighting against antibiotic resistance. We can do much more in the Nordic region than we do at the moment, and I also think that the Nordic region can do a great deal in this context if we pool our strength in production as well. The European Union can do much more than they are doing at the moment. I don't think it's time. This is a very special situation and I hope that we will not find ourselves in an even more special situation than we are at present. I would very, very much hate to see that my children and grandchildren in particular should come in, because then we are all over the edge. Why can we not have more bids for what we can do instead of just waiting for the protected market forces we have now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142754	Thank you. In any case, I agree with the latter part. I hope it doesn't get much worse than what we're experiencing right now. And it's not to talk down what we can in the North. I personally also have a very good insight into what we can do and we can do a great deal in some areas. This does not mean that we can do everything in all areas. If there is anything we have seen in the development of corona vaccine, it is precisely that the free market has worked. We have over 120 • last time I checked projects that are running, with the development of different types of vaccines. So far, one is as far as I know, there may be more given, a few are paused, and some are delayed. There are crazy good things going on, really good projects going on across the world. It is precisely not a form of monopoly or anything else; it is precisely all sorts of different paths. Some have been fast, some have been surprisingly fast, some have used new technology, others are on their way with more classic technologies. The picture is much more complicated than that. I'm not so worried about what it's gonna be like in the long run. I would rather see how things are going when someone has to give up their projects, because then it may be they are offering to produce them, we all need those that work. But we'll just have to wait and see what the game ends up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142858	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142859	If not licenses and patents are anti-monopoly, what are they? I believe that the public researcher and make the research available to the public, but the company that has to produce and make money is allowed to protect its production rather than talk about the free market, which the Radical Left often talks about. Then I would like to ask one last question. Denmark has a shopping club and now we are working completely in the market economy, we are not working in a socialist utopia or anything else, but the other day, last week, when we had a consultation on the same question, the Minister for Health said in answer to a direct question: Denmark has not demanded that companies so in parallel with it should supply cheap medicines to the poorest. Nor has the European Union called for this. What does the rapporteur think of such a negotiating technique in the midst of a critical situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127142954	I can understand, of course, if you have not had this in mind when you were sitting and negotiating because you and several others have focused on their own national problem. Of course, I find that a pity now, because I fully agree with the concern that exists. A pandemic is by its very nature global. As long as we are not all protected or vaccinated, we have a problem that we are all going to have to deal with. I fully recognise that, and I believe it is something that should be raised internationally in the WHO context, because that is something that we must take seriously. I shall not be able to answer on behalf of the Minister for Health why they have not taken it up at the time. But I can imagine that there have been other more pressing concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127143030	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127143056	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs. As rapporteur for development policy, one becomes quite humble by being in the company of the health rapporteurs who, if any, have worked hard in this crisis and who have, of course, built up a huge, huge knowledge. Thank you for all the work you're doing. This is an extremely important debate, which is why it is also a debate that is running a lot of places. This is not just something we are talking about here in the Danish Parliament today; it is, after all, a debate that is running in the European Parliament and around national parliaments and in very many forums: how do we ensure that it is not just a few rich countries that can be vaccinated while the rest of the world has to wait? Some people point out that we have to wait years before the rest of the world is in relation to the vaccine against this pandemic. It is so important to look at, and it can be said that global solidarity should be enough, but we can also look at it egocentrically and say that we are not really safe until everyone is safe. As long as we don't get vaccinated and do something about the pandemic around the world, mutations will come back to us. At the same time, it is also about the fact that there is an economy that has stalled globally because of closures in many places. It is also something that is affecting us. Although, hopefully, we have been vaccinated in Europe and other rich countries already this summer, the fact that the poor countries are not involved has enormous implications for the world economy, because closures are still gone. I just think it is so bad to look out at what this pandemic has done to the world, especially when we look at the developing countries, when we look at the developments that have been in the last few decades and that we can just see falling apart. We see poverty and we see hunger. Well, it's so bad, and we have to do something about that. We have the chance to get everyone vaccinated. There are various initiatives; there is this whole COVAX initiative, which Denmark and the EU have strongly supported. That is good, but I just do not think it can stand alone because it is structurally wrong when we think it is a mechanism in which we have to donate and where philanthropists go in and pay for vaccines, so that we get vaccinated the whole world. And that's why India and South Africa had to point out this TRIPS mechanism in the autumn, that is to say they wanted us to have it made and put into service. It is a mechanism which, in the World Trade Organisation itself, is designed to take effect when we are in a global crisis, as we are doing right now. It was supported by about 100 countries • I don't have the exact number, because more have been added. But it was also supported by some of the people we are listening to in this pandemic, i.e. WHO and UNAIDS, as if someone has experience of getting medicine into the world when it comes to a pandemic in the HIV/AIDS field. It is supported by Doctors without Borders who are out there. And who said no? The same rich countries, which have secured the vast majority of the vaccines, did so. It is, of course, a mechanism that is not about taking vaccines from us.I think it is quite natural that we look at how we can get our people vaccinated as soon as possible. It is a mechanism that will ensure that there are vaccines for developing countries too, so that they can be here and we do not have to wait for 2024 or 2025 before everyone has been vaccinated. I would really like a proper response from the government as to when they intend to work actively for this. Because I only think I have heard excuses and no active action on precisely this which is supported by so many.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127143512	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We're just gonna get the booze off yes, please. I understand that sir. Peder Hvelplund concludes the debate after the ministers. So that's why it's the Secretary of State now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127143537	Thank you, President. And let me thank the rapporteurs for this debate and stress that if there is something that the government is concerned with and I also said that in my opening speech it is simply to have as many as possible vaccinated as possible at the earliest possible time. It's a global pandemic, and there's nothing we're more concerned with. And I just want to mention COVAX in this context, because it's as if we haven't thought about the challenge with the rest of the world; we already have that from the start. And before the end of 2021, COVAX is supposed to be able to deliver on the target of being able to vaccinate 20 per cent. of the population of the 92 low- and middle-income countries corresponding to 1.3 billion doses. The agreements with the suppliers are in place. The vaccines can work, even in developing countries, and are on their way. However, some of the funding is lacking, as has been said, and that is why we will also press the Danish Commission for the extra funds to be provided so that this can be done. Then I just want to emphasise one thing. Already in April 2020, the biggest global health actors took the initiative for this international vaccine collaboration • i.e. in April We remember how in the spring we all fought with an unknown virus that we were about to handle. And what COVAX is about is purchasing and ensuring a fair distribution of the covid-19 vaccines among poor countries. Then I would also like to mention to the rapporteurs, in relation to the fact that it is the patent that is the problem: no, it is the production capacity. It is the opportunity to make it work in the health systems of developing countries that are crucial. In this context, it is also stressed that the 46 least developed countries in the world are, after all, exempt from TRIPS; they are not covered by this patent. But yet it is that they are not included, of course not a solution, in that they can then just start a production, because it is extremely complicated. So it was just to knock a stake through the myth that the government does not fight hard, both domestic and foreign, to ensure that as many as possible should be vaccinated. We do, and we intend to continue to do so. So thank you for the debate. It's an important debate, but it's also important to shoot down the myths and important that we fight together to get through this pandemic well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127143752	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127143756	I hear over and over again, and I also heard from the consultation with the Minister for Health and with the Minister for Development last week, that the TRIPS mechanism, like this one, is rejected because there are already all the options that need to be and that it is about something quite different. However, we can hear from India and South Africa, and we can hear from global health organisations, that there is something that needs to be done about here. And I would just like to know if this is really something you have a dialogue about in the government. Because I could understand from the Minister for Development in the programme call the government on P1 the other day that you are actually open to making use of the TRIPS mechanism. So I would like to know whether this is something that is being discussed Is there a dialogue that it is the right position on the part of the Council and the Commission to reject it vertically?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127143852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127143852-2	As I have said, therefore, there seems to be no indication that the major problems at global level concern patent rights. The challenges, which I have mentioned several times, are rather production capacity, financing and weak health systems, especially in developing countries. So I think we should actually direct the effort to where it makes the greatest possible real difference. And, as I said, what Denmark is doing is pushing for more action. India, which is mentioned here, at least according to my information, has already established cooperation with vaccine manufacturers to produce quite large quantities of vaccine on licence in India. So that is the way forward; of course we will work for that too, so that you can lift it around that way to reach a high enough production of vaccines.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127143943	Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127143944	I understood that, i.e. what the Foreign Minister said, because it was a little the same thing that was said in the speech before. And I'm actually just asking if there's a dialogue about this. Because I understood from the Minister for Development in the P1 programme that it was actually open to use it. And we have seen a massive call from a very large group of countries and a very much Is the dialogue there, in relation to the fact that you may not be right in the Danish Government, and in relation to saying that it actually has nothing to do with the TRIPS mechanism, but that it would be a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144019	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144020	Listen: The Danish government is open to all proposals that can increase vaccine production and distribution and vaccination at home and globally. That's what we're working for. We're all in a pandemic, and we're not out of this pandemic until we've all done enough to have the necessary number of vaccines and also flock immunity. So that's what we're working for. We are pushing for action, but there is just no indication that suspending patent rights would solve the challenge we are facing, so we are concentrating on solving the challenge. I actually think we want the same thing, but I think we have some different means for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144056	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144057	Thank you. The Foreign Minister once again mentioned COVAX, and it is also true that this is a very good initiative. It is also true that vaccination is the objective, but as it appears right now, it seems that around 3% can be vaccinated. of the 20% that is the target. So that's where we're far from the target. But I would just like to ask something else about the production capacity issue, for more, among other things. Doctors without frontiers have requested evidence of a lack of production capacity. It is an often repeated argument, but it is just difficult to see that there is actually valid evidence that this is the way it is. In any case, we can see that it is not only low-income countries that demand it here. It is also the BRIKS countries that are now asking for the possibility of producing because they believe that they would be able to provide production capacity. It is about vaccines, and in principle it could also be about protective equipment and other things to be used in an acute health crisis. So what is the evidence that there is no such production capacity, since there are several countries that directly demand this option?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144204	As I understand it, as I have already said, India has also collaborated on production with a vaccine manufacturer in terms of buying a patent for it, and we also need to cooperate with regard to protective equipment. I believe that the way forward here is simply to make cooperation work optimally, and that is why COVAX was a good example, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund mentioned how to work together to get the vaccines out. It is true that five billion are missing. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Denmark works hard for this and also for the EU to lift more here, preferably with the United States and the new administration. This isn't about any ideological blockages. It is about what is practically the most effective way of getting vaccines to be deployed as soon as possible, and there we are open to all proposals. We are just saying that the proposal put on the table here is not a Columbus egg. That does not solve the challenge we face, and that is why we have rejected the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144308	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144309	However, the problem at the moment is that demand far exceeds supply, and that is why making use of the opportunities offered by the TRIPS agreement for a waiter, for emergency licences, is not something that stands in the way of the others. It only ensures that if the production capacity is there in relation to the vaccines that are now being developed, then it will also be possible to use it. That is what is being demanded of these countries, so why not come to them in relation to it and ensure that if it falls so fortunate that there are vaccines that can be produced and the capacity is there, then we also have the opportunity to use it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144345	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144346	I'd like to say to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, that I believe that if there is an opportunity to produce, then there is also the possibility to produce on a licence, and I understand that India has already made use of that option if my information is correct. It is far better to use that option than to start suspending patent rights. Moreover, they have been suspended in practice for the 46 least developed countries in the world. This has not meant that they have easier access to vaccines or production. There are some other obstacles to this, including, as I mentioned earlier, the capacity of health systems, the problem of ensuring vaccines early enough, and there we have COVAX and other initiatives to address that challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144425	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144427	Thank you. Now I will try to see if I can settle for two questions. Let us say that what the Minister says about production capacity is right, but is it not time we said to others: production capacity is not large enough, and we would like to find a Waiver solution for you if you just want to get started; we know that it will take you 5-6 months, and it may also take longer, but get started, and then you get to produce? That is what it takes for some to produce. It is no wonder that the poorest countries have not used these capacities, because where will they get the capital from and the opportunities for it, when they have extreme problems in addition? That's not weird. It is then the richest countries that must try to take an initiative and help them on their way. So, why don't you give them this opportunity? Why are the three other options rejected? Why has it not even been said, when they negotiated medicine for Denmark, to the companies that are going to deliver to Denmark that when they deliver to us, they also have to deliver to the poorest part of the world at a low price? This could be an easy way to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144538	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144540	This isn't about us not wanting to produce as many vaccines as possible as possible and have them distributed to the whole world. That's what we're working hard on. It is about the funds that are for this fight, and it has to be said that the cooperation between all the players in the countries, the pharmaceutical industry, researchers, etc. What we are saying is that what is being pointed out here, namely to suspend the TRIPS agreement, is not a solution to what we are all frustrated about, namely that we are not getting enough vaccines out as soon as possible. So there we have other means, and I have mentioned that Denmark is at the forefront. COVAX is an initiative that Denmark supports and works hard for. We want the European Union to step up its efforts so that more people can be vaccinated in developing countries. I would therefore like to arrest the premise that what we are doing should be less effective than what is being proposed here. On the contrary, I believe that what we do on the part of the government is actually what delivers results for the poorest countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144640	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144641	Well, that could depend on a test. But the global world and humanity need more than the Danish government is currently delivering. So we need to look at more options, and the Danish Government must help to find those opportunities. The government doesn't just have to say we're doing a good job. I would therefore like to conclude by saying on the subject of COVAX that yes, it is fine that we had found 100 million. kr. this year, but last year alone we found together with the Minister for Development 1 billion. kr. to prevent and help to live with the corona. Now we need 1 billion. kr. to COVAX, which is why we cannot settle for 100 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144721	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144722	To that end, I would like to say to Mr Seligman that we should close the door on the possibilities. Christian Juhl: On the contrary, the Danish government is open to all possibilities. We need to search every corner to fight this pandemic, get vaccines out and get them produced as soon as possible. That is our starting point. This has been the case all along, and so it will continue. But we also have to deal with the real world if we are to succeed. That is where we say that some initiatives are under way that we support. COVAX is one of them, and there are other initiatives in which the Danish Government is very active. As the Minister for Health also mentioned, we have also talked to pharmaceutical producers about what can be done and what cannot be done. So we're active on all fronts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144801	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments, and after despriting it is the Minister for Health. I'm just so quietly pointing out that we have to reach the Minister for Health and I'd be very happy to meet you, sir. Peder Hvelplund, and we have 10 minutes. It's just such a service information. Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127144834	Thank you for that, President. So let me be brief, and that is also an urgent question, so we have some timeframes to observe. Thank you very much for the debate. I think this is a very, very relevant discussion. It must of course be about doing everything that can be done and about using all the relevant tools and constantly examining whether there are more or new tools to be used to get more vaccines, both for Denmark, but also as the questioners have stressed, not only morally, but also healthly, we are obliged and absolutely necessary to work together all over the world, because this pandemic can only stop once we have vaccinated a sufficient part of the world. Otherwise, there is a high health risk of new mutations that may arise elsewhere in the world and once again attack the populations, including Denmark. That is simply what is real reality, and that is why it is vitally important. The specific tools on which the question here is about, we have said that we do not think will be relevant now, because it would require that we have a specific production apparatus ready for the vaccines which are now approved and which will be approved. We have not yet been able to locate and find relevant production equipment and equipment and production capacity in Denmark or anywhere else that is ready for this. They are, after all, scaling up and expanding their factories, and that is something that we are pushing for and supporting. That is also what I have said: that if we in Denmark can in any way help with subcontracting or anything else to have this scaled up and moved forward, then we will do whatever it takes. If you had to use the tools that the debate here is about, it would require that we had plant or other equipment that was ready in Denmark for this. Unfortunately that is not the case, and if it was, I am sure that it would also be possible without using these things to make an agreement, because the companies in question also have a huge interest in getting these vaccines out to Denmark, to Europe and to the whole world. So it is very, very relevant, and there are, as I see it, many ways forward: on all fronts to work to get as many safe and approved vaccines as possible as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145121	There are three brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145124	In short, this debate isn't just about whether Denmark is going to produce vaccines, no, it's about how we get vaccines out all over the world. So I think it was a bit of a derailment that the Minister made here in the end. This is about getting the whole world vaccinated. The Minister was not ready to give a clear answer to that during the consultation, and so I ask again. The Minister himself said that there was a sub-group in the Council working for the donation trail of the over-capacity of vaccines that may exist after we have vaccinated the people of Europe. Is this something that is actively involved from the Danish side, can I ask again? I hope the Minister is ready to respond today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145202	Well, the rule is that when we have bought vaccines in Denmark through the EU, we have bought 16 million if they are all delivered, with the option of being able to vaccinate 23 million people altogether, then it is quite clear that of the vaccines you do not need as a country, you can either sell on or donate on. That's the rule. However, I firmly believe that this is a debate which will, of course, be relevant and interesting at some point. But right now we are fighting to get vaccines at all, and we have too little knowledge of how long it works and what we will need, and what we want, and what is delivered and when it is delivered. We do not know about all this at this time, and therefore I believe that there should now be a full focus on getting as many vaccines as possible delivered, and when we are in the real situation where we are actually starting to have some stocks that we do not need, then of course that debate is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145305	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145306	I am well aware of the agreement in the European Union on what can be done. But the Minister himself said in the conciliation that there was a commission or a meeting of the Council committee working on the donation trail. That is why I actually ask quite quietly when the Minister himself said this at the conciliation meeting. And if the minister doesn't believe it, maybe some of the people can hear it through. He says there's this committee or this group of countries working on this. I just ask: what is Denmark's role in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145333	I well remember our consultation 14 days ago. It is not the Ministry of Health that is represented in that work, so give us a written question, and then we can come back with a written answer on exactly how it is organised.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145352	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145354	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for Health for your reply. The Secretary of Health says we're willing to do anything. I note that the three things that we are proposing in the Enhedslisten are not included in doing everything. But I would really like to ask a few questions about that, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist also mentioned earlier, in relation to what the Minister for Development said in the radio programme called "Ring to the Government," because who said the Minister for Development on a question about the possibility of using a Waiver, i.e. one of the things we are also proposing, and I quote: but it is true to me that you do so, and I have also confirmed that it is an option in exceptional cases that this is how you do it. I think you should use all the options you have. So it's about using a Waiver. That is why I just want to know whether the Minister for Health agrees with the Minister for Development that using the Waiver, since it is
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145457	I have not heard the radio programme in question, and I have no idea what the context is. At the level of principle, I would say that these tools do exist and they are good. So let us go in to see to what extent they would be relevant in this situation, and I myself, as well as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, have explained why, in this situation, they would be bankrupt; there are other tools that will be better. In practical terms, we have among other things. heard that the Indian serum institute is making agreements to produce 1.1 billion doses of vaccine, and there are also 500 million others that are being agreed through the COVAX initiative. So there are a number of agreements with the existing setup, which are assessed as being more robust and can produce better results. I think that is wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145557	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145558	However, the problem is a little, and this is also what the WTO itself stresses, that the solutions that are now do not stand in the way of looking at the other options as well. It is true that it is complex and that it takes time and that it is not something you just do overnight, so why not get started now? For the corona, we will probably have to see the next few years too, and at least in relation to the current rate of vaccination, vaccination is something that has long-term prospects. So why not explore the options now and ensure that it can be put into use if it becomes applicable?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145631	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145632	But there is what I am saying: it is not something that we are standing here and rejecting. When we answer here, it is to the question that is in this question debate about what it is actually possible to do with these instruments, and on the Danish side I can answer that we have examined Danish suppliers, and there is no possibility for Danish suppliers here and now to start producing this highly specialised, completely newly developed vaccine. That is why it is not an option, and that is why the tools that have been listed here are not possible from the Danish side here and now to solve the acute problem we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145704	There is one brief comment left, and I will allow it to go through, and then we will see how we achieve it all. But if you're keen on keeping time and maybe shortening the question, then we'll get it all. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145714	I can help the President by saying that we started this debate at 1 p.m. 13.05, so we stay within the time limit. When the Minister for Health says that we have a more robust answer, I would like to ask him: does the Minister honestly think that the market is doing well with all the subsidies and aid they have been given to solve this task? And is it not important that we get more of the market activated, which is what lies in our proposal? The parliamentary basis was created to inspire and not just to clap on the back, which is why it is a bit a slave's job to always be like those young people in the Cloud Hans, who come up to the princess, who each time say: "Get away!" Don't do it! Move! Don't do it! We should then be able to put forward proposals for something that is better than what we have at the moment, because we are in a critical situation. Now I could understand that sir... Flemming Møller Mortensen's statements were not just something that was within the framework, but then I would like to ask about the interview with the Prime Minister, where she says that we should go further, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145823	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145823-2	With regard to my assessment of market forces, I believe that this is an extremely frustrating situation that we in Denmark are in and in which the whole of Europe is in. When I am in contact with my European Health Ministers, they express exactly the same thing. This is an extremely frustrating situation. I have just been told that a large South European country has simply had to stop their vaccination programme because they are lacking vaccines now, and in Denmark we have to make new vaccine plans all the time. It is extremely frustrating that we have to fight in this way, not only to get the vaccine, but also to get the planning basis, that is, data, when we get the vaccine and why it is delayed. We're struggling with things like that. So it is very impressive that the market has succeeded, because there are also some people who have not succeeded, and of course we do not hear about them in this debate, and it is also fine that a whole new vaccine has been developed in such a short time. That's amazing. But it is deeply frustrating to fight for the safety of the population and vaccines without being able to get these answers and these doses of vaccine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145930	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145931	I also think the Minister has done a fantastic job during this period. It is an extremely problematic and difficult situation to be a minister in. However, it is extremely frustrating that when we try to come up with new ideas from the parliamentary point of view, we just say: 'Don't work!' Can the Minister not understand that, and was it not an idea for the government to consider whether there was a need for a little more innovation in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127145957	Thank you very much for your initial remarks. And yes, I understand. Nor do I see this as anything more than an expression of a burning desire to get as much work started as possible and to have all the possibilities examined thoroughly. I think that is entirely relevant, and that is why we very much welcome this debate on the part of the government. It probably does not end today, and it should not do so, because suddenly new openings can arise, where it is relevant to look at some of the tools that are well-written. So, of course, we will continue to work on all fronts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150033	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten, for exit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150052	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the debate. I also think that this has been a good and constructive and positive debate, and I would also like to sign up to both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Health for the response and, in particular, the comments that we are in a situation where we need to think new, also in terms of looking at opportunities to establish public vaccine production at international level. It may be in the Nordic context; it may also be at EU level. In any case, I think that is a good thing. But I must say that I am also a little incomprehensible about the rejection of the proposals we are making here. I have no objection to an ideological debate. I would very much like to have an ideological debate down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but I think that we are in a situation that is more serious right now than discussing different ideologies about nationalisations or privatisations or whether we should take over vaccine production. This is far more serious than that, and it is not at all what we are debating here. What we are debating here is something as simple as taking advantage of the opportunities that exist within the existing agreements, because we are in an extreme situation. We are in a global crisis, both a health crisis and a socio-economic crisis, and it must be resolved globally, and that therefore requires that we also find global solutions together and that we all contribute to it. There we only have a special obligation to do so in Denmark. We have the capacity to show new ways of ensuring that a vaccine can become available throughout the world. Right now, the problem is that demand far exceeds supply, and that is why we need to do something about supply and ensure that supply is increased, and we can do this by taking advantage of the opportunities that exist within the existing agreements, precisely by ensuring, when we negotiate, that, through the bilateral agreements we make, we take advantage of the opportunity to say to vaccine producers: when we buy your vaccine, you must also ensure that it becomes available to low-income countries because the epidemic must be tackled globally. We can do this by ensuring that we support those countries that demand the possibility of creating a waiter, that is, a temporary suspension of patent rights when they specifically raise the demand and are supported by UNAIDS, by the WHO, by doctors without frontiers, by 100 other countries that can see the need for it here, because it is essential for them as well as for us. There, too, we should play the role of supporting it, of course. Finally, of course, we should also ensure that the opportunity to take advantage of Article 31 of the TRIPS Agreement, that emergency licences can be issued in exceptional cases, even if the voluntary agreements are already being tested and that we also do what we can to make use of them. I am just a little incomprehensible about why there is no support for us to look at those options, because I think it is quite fundamental, as the director of the WHO also says, that nobody is safe until everyone is safe, and if it is not now, when the opportunities are there, when is it? That is why I can guarantee that this is a debate that we will continue to take up. It may also happen that we are going to take the more ideological debate at some point, but right now it is about us having a global responsibility to combat a global epidemic, and that is where I think Denmark should play a prominent role.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150456	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. That concludes the debate, as no one else has asked to speak. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150509	I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, will be answered in writing. S 13 (S 758) and No 14 (S 761) to the Minister for Employment of Torsten Gejl (ALT) is deleted from the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150521	The first question is to the Minister for Health by Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150542	Here you go for reading, Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150545	Thank you. What does the Minister intend to do to ensure that citizens who cannot travel from islands and outlying rural areas themselves are vaccinated against corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150555	The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150556	Thank you very much for the question. The offer and possibility of vaccine should not depend on conditions other than those of purely health care developed by the Danish Health Authority and on the need to be vaccinated as soon as possible with as little waste as possible when the vaccines are delivered. Nor must relations such as proximity to the vaccine centre be decisive. The aim of the vaccine deployment is to minimise serious events involving covid-19 and deaths, epidemic control and ensuring key community-critical functions. That is why it has been a priority and is still to get the first vaccine deliveries to all the care centres in the country and to have the vaccination selected front personnel. Vaccination has been carried out at the care centres using mobile devices. Now we are starting to vaccinate new target groups, including citizens of the older target group who receive personal care and practical help in their homes. This presents new logistical challenges, and I shall be the first to admit that. It must be taken into account that some vaccines must be stored in a special way and it must be ensured that there can be no waste here in Denmark in any way. We have too few vaccines. Therefore, vaccine deployment is closely coordinated and planned between health authorities and regions and municipalities. The challenges of vaccination of target groups and agreements on locally adapted solutions must be addressed on an ongoing basis. I can give you a few examples. A good example is a local solution from Anholt, where, together with the Central Denmark Region, it has been agreed that vaccines are sent with the ferry to Anholt and that the vaccines are received by the island's doctor, after which the doctor and health workers plan vaccination of the residents on the island who are to be vaccinated here in the first place. And if there is a vaccine in excess at Anholt, employees are vaccinated at the island's rescue station, so that excess vaccine is not wasted. In general, it is our municipalities that have the task of providing transport to the vaccination site to citizens who, due to permanent physical or mental impairment, are unable to get to the vaccination site themselves. That's true, no matter where they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150804	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150805	After all, the minister mentions the situation from Anholt, which I also had the pleasure of reading about on TV 2 Østjylland. It was both Anholt and Tunø who were strongly challenged by it. And there it was that the Central Jutland Region went in and solved the task and said: we simply have to ensure that. What I miss is something more national on the part of the Minister, that is, that the Minister simply goes in and guarantees it, no matter where you live in the country, whether you live on an island or far out in a rural area and are older or weak or otherwise prevented from going to those vaccine sites or if it is associated with too much trouble. At Anholt, it doesn't even have to be because you're older. Well, it's trouble to sail 3 hours each way and have to have an overnight stay in a hotel and all that. So I just want the Minister to take responsibility for nationwide securing those citizens for whom it is difficult so that they can still get that vaccine away.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150909-2	That's right. And there's that saying. It is something about a mountain and that, if it cannot come to you, you must get to it and so on. The fact is, we really want to get out with the vaccine. And especially if you are old-age or otherwise weakened and live in a place where it is difficult to be transported by ferry or other means to a vaccine site or hospital far away, then it can be difficult. The problem is that some of the vaccines are also difficult to move because they need to be stored under special conditions, and that is what is our challenge at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150944	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127150944-2	Do I hear the Minister say that this is something the municipalities themselves must find out, or is there any hope that at some point the Minister will say that he will take care of himself and ensure that no matter where in the country you live, you can be vaccinated if you do not have the opportunity to get to the vaccination site?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151003	Wherever you live, it is a perfectly clear part of our vaccine strategy that you must be offered vaccination, and if, for one reason or another, you cannot be transported with the help of your local authority and coordinated by the region to the vaccine site, there must be a solution so that the vaccine is transported the other way. We just have the challenge that there are some vaccines that cannot be transported so far and out to the individual without risking a huge waste. That is why we need to do so when it makes logistical sense and can be done, also in order to ensure the safety and health of the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151040	The final question to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151041	Good. Can I hear what the Minister says as an intention, or is it really a promise that no matter where you live in Denmark, you should have that opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151052	It's really a promise. And that is quite clear in our vaccine plan. The questioner and I have had the pleasure of being around many of Denmark's small islands a few years ago. I know and love them, and I know the questioner does. And, of course, like everyone else, they have exactly the same right to receive a good and safe vaccine offer. And they have some special challenges because they live as they do. We are glad they do, and they must be able to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151118	Thank you. The question is over. So we thank the Minister for Health and the elderly and Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker. The next question is to the Minister of Justice by Mr. Peter Skaarup, Danish People's Party, and co-author is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151143	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151144	Thank you. The question is this: Does the Minister believe that it is proportional to previous cases, including Morten Bødskov's lie, to send Inger Løbberg for impeachment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151201	Thank you for the floor. A great deal can be said about differences and inequalities between cases. When it comes to the parliamentary control of the government and its ministers, there is first and foremost the common feature that it is ultimately up to the Folketing itself to decide what to do. That is why we cannot compare with cases that have taken place in another matter at another time, which were put together in a different way and had a more topical basis for taking a position on the specific case. In some cases, the Folketing chooses to give a nose or to withdraw the support to a minister without prior investigation. In other cases, it is decided to set up a lawyer's inquiry or a commission of inquiry in order to clarify the aspects of the case. Such studies may then again give rise to further consideration by the Folketing. In some cases, until now, only a handful since the Basic Law of 1849 have the Danish Parliament found that an impeachment case should be raised. It is, it can be said, a very serious decision, and for me and for my party, it has been crucial in the present case that there is a clear and independent exposition and assessment in the form of the sub-report of the Instructor's Commission and the subsequent assessment by the independent lawyers who have been asked to advise the Folketing on the matter. We do not believe that there is any basis for neglecting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151337	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151337-2	Thank you, and thank you for your statement from the Minister of Justice. It is the case that a large majority, most recently confirmed by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure today, has decided to send former Minister for Integration Inger Nøjberg to the Court of Justice. One of the main reasons why we in the Danish People's Party oppose this impeachment is that it is completely out of proportion to what has been done in other similar cases. Let me remind you of the former Minister of Justice, the current Minister of Taxation, Mr. Morten Bødskov, who made a so-called distress lie to the Folketing years ago. This is perhaps the clearest example of disrespect for the Folketing and disrespect for what is going on in here, where we must ensure that truthful information comes to the Folketing and thus to the citizens. When the Social Democrats and the government choose to support an impeachment case against Inger Nøjberg, we may wonder in the Danish People's Party that a number of impeachment cases, other impeachment cases, should not be brought in the Danish Parliament in relation to many of the other cases that have taken place. Because there have been plenty of cases where there has been a field where there has been discussion, whether a minister has handled things in the right way, and whether a ministry has handled things in the right way, yes, even from the Ministry of Justice's own ministry, we have discussions in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, whether the minister and the device have dealt with various matters in the right way; that is what I think we can say. That is why we have to assess in the Folketing, and that is where the Minister's answer comes up, whether it is so serious that the ultimate instrument should be used, and that is why I have to ask again: now that we know about all these cases, does the Minister not agree that it is a strict political decision which the Socialists and the government have chosen to accept that an impeachment is being brought against former Minister for Integration Inger Nøjberg?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151549	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151549-2	In other words, if you look at the matter in legal terms, which is fair enough to do, when it is an impeachment you can easily look at it politically, but let us look at it legally, you have to note with Jens Peter Christensen's doctoral dissertation of 1997, as far as I remember, that the issue of the binding of the Folketing is not subject to a custom, and it is nevertheless subject to a custom of law. This means that the Folketing is in fact free in its assessment. I shall return to the possible modification that is, but time has run out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151628	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151629	Well, I kind of agree with the Minister for Justice on that. The Folketing is free; we can judge ourselves on the basis of a political assessment whether we believe there is sufficient seriousness behind a case which means that one should then take an impeachment or give a nose or a criticism or whatever happens. That is why I would like to repeat the question: is it not a rigorous political assessment by the government and the Socialists that makes it a choice to take impeachment proceedings against Inger Købberg?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151700	That was exactly the modification to which I would like to have the opportunity to return, because although it must be said that the law in force is that the assessment is free, that it is Parliament's own opinion, Jens Peter Christensen is considering in the same doctoral dissertation whether there may be a reservation about a possible party political distortion of power when dealing with the question of whether to raise an impeachment case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151724	Thank you. And even if it's a little tedious, sir. Peter Skaarup, we'll almost have to wipe off in between, because now it's Mr. Skaarup. I know it's a little tedious. Peter Skaarup We are very, very close). Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151745	After all, the Minister of Justice is right that it has been discussed in relation to whether the requirement of objectivity laid down in the Code of Procedure applies to the Folketing. That's just not what Mr. Peter Skaarup asks. That, sir. Peter Skaarup asks whether the liability assessment, if any, to be carried out in relation to Mrs Inger Løbberg, will not be affected by the liability assessment which was then never made in relation to Mr Inger Løbberg. Morten Bødskov. That is beyond any doubt and I would just like to ask the Minister of Justice to confirm at least that the so-called emergency lie Morten Bødskov gave to the Danish Parliament is contrary to the law of ministerial responsibility. In other words, the law of ministerial responsibility places an extremely high level of expectation on the country's ministers: one must not break the law, one must not give false information, and in accordance with Section 5, paragraph 5. 2, you can't even make it grossly negligent. There is no doubt that Mr. Morten Bødskov in any case did this grossly negligently with all likelihood directly with the intention of misleading the Folketing. He would have been judged with pipes and drums. It is only then that I ask whether the Minister of Justice will partly confirm this and, on the one hand, whether he will also consider whether the level of the liktet thus laid will really lead to Mrs Inger Nøjberg being judged.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151854-2	As I heard it may be that I heard wrong, but then the questioner gets the opportunity to clarify it, then the questioner built into it, that in the assessment which the Danish Parliament is required to make when assessing whether there is a basis for raising an impeachment, the requirement of objectivity is legally incorporated. I think that is simply wrong. So, I agree that this is a factual argument and a relevant argument, but that it should be incorporated as part of the legal assessment, I simply do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151925	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127151926	No, but that's not what I asked you about... it was a little thing that we'll come back to later in Questions 4 and 5. What I was asking was whether the error that Mr. So if I were a defense attorney here, I'd call Mr. Bødskov immediately. Morten Bødskov as a witness in the impeachment case; it would be an incompetent defense that did not do so would not affect the liability assessment in relation to new impeachment cases; that is, that the Parliament has said that the distress lie which he probably gave with a first-degree delict and thus broke the law of ministerial responsibility will influence the performance of the evidence and the assessment of liability in relation to new impeachment cases, including a possible impeachment case against Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152004	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152005	I'm not sure I get it right. Is it true that what is the point, and it is really to understand it, is that a case that has not been brought must constitute a precedent for the case that is now to be conducted, in other words, contrary to the situation in which we normally find ourselves, where we say that the cases which may constitute a precedent are cases which have actually been conducted, where the courts have had the opportunity to say what they think should be applicable? But the point here is that in cases which are not exactly Morten Messerschmidt) and which have not been assessed by the courts because they have not been carried out, one must then assess whether the arguments that exist would be relevant, i.e. the arguments that have not been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152048	I let it go a little longer, because it seemed as though it was a very complex legal discussion. But now it's mr. Peter Skaarup, who has the floor for the last question in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152058	I doubt it when I hear the Minister for Justice, so the question to the Minister for Justice is: is it because Mr. Morten Bødskov, who was Minister of Justice, is a Social Democrat, that he should not be on impeachment, or is it because it is believed that Mrs Inger Løjberg, as Minister of Integration, has done something much worse than Mr. Morten Bødskov did when he made his so-called emergency lie to the Folketing? Let me remind you that what Mrs Inger Løjberg has done is, of course, that she has tried to ensure that the child brides were separated from their older men. That is to say, she has tried to do what was actually what the Folketing would normally express itself in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152142	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152143	But here again I have doubts as to whether it is the legal or the political assessment that the questioner is putting forward. For the characterization of what Mrs Inger Løjberg has done in relation to the child bride is not the legally qualifying circumstance. After all, these are quite different circumstances which the Instructor's commission has pointed out in its sub-report that would be relevant to the question of whether or not to take impeachment proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152210	The question is over. But we will continue with the same minister and the same question, Mr. Peter Skaarup who asks and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152221	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152223	Thanks, and it's kind of on the same street. Does the Minister believe that an impeachment case against Inger Løjberg could have been settled in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152238	In any case, I would like to begin by saying that it is a little bit on the same street as where we were just now. Nevertheless, it is here too and therefore, in the same ball street, it is ultimately up to the Folketing what a case should lead to. In this case, the party statements indicate that there is a desire for impeachment, which is, of course, a serious decision which has only been taken, as I said before, five times in the history of Denmark, and which is what I believe we agree on the last and most ultimate instrument in the parliamentary control of the government. It is therefore a resolution which, in my opinion, should be based on a clear, independent and well-worked case presentation and assessment. After all, it is now available in the form of the sub-report of the Commission on Instruction and the subsequent assessment by independent lawyers who have been asked to advise the Folketing on the matter. That is the assessment that I and my party have indicated that we do not believe there is any basis for disregarding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152344	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152345	Yes, as I said, it is a bit on the same track as the previous question. After all, it is all about whether the hetz that we in the Danish People's Party think has been led against former integration minister Inger Løjberg and her line could have been avoided and that it could have been done in the Folketing. It seems to us that it is quite crazy that the Socialists are almost at each other's throats to ensure that an impeachment is waged and set in motion the huge apparatus that will result from it, with millions of tax dollars behind it. We simply cannot understand that. We see it as an attempt to please the left, the red parties and the agenda we have had, in which we try in many ways to bring down the tight immigration policy. I have to say that I am surprised and disappointed that the Socialists will be involved in the impeachment of Inger Løbberg on that basis. What you come to if you go through with the impeachment case we are going to debate it in the Parliamentary Chamber tomorrow and vote on it on Tuesday is in fact that you are going to put the conventions over the tight Danish immigration policy. Now the Minister will probably reply shortly on the basis that some fine lawyers say that some have prepared it and that there is a commission of instructions and some lawyers, etc. etc. But do we not agree that an impeachment is politically determined? Because if it was not politically determined, a number of impeachment cases, such as those against former Minister of Justice Morten Bødskov, should have been brought by the scale applied to Inger Løjberg. Because if there is something that violates crucial principles as a minister and in the discussion of the Folketing, it is precisely if you tell something that does not fit and that is what you did. It was even done consciously. You came up with a lie, an emergency lie. So let me hear the Minister answer: what is the difference? What is it that makes you want an impeachment in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152557	I think it is appropriate to try to stick to the political context. I simply do not think it is right to say that we in the Social Democratic Party have been at each other's throats to promote this impeachment. In fact, I think that we have stood back and waited for any studies or statements to be made. Nor do I think it is fair to say that this will be done to please the left, because then we will also have the left, which will then include the Conservative People's Party, and the left, which will also include the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark, which I also understand supports this impeachment case. So to say that it should be such a left-wing exercise may, after all, be to tighten it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152641	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152641-2	Yes, the Minister may think so, but it has to be said that the Social Democrats and thus the government have been the tongue of the scales in this matter all the way, in relation to which lawyers one should choose from the Folketing to deal with the matter. It was the Social Democrats who were the tongue of the scales there. Was an impeachment to be filed? On what basis was it to be conducted? All the way through the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has been indifferent to the weight of the House and has therefore been decisive in ensuring that there is an impeachment or, at least, a basis for the Danish Parliament to decide on an impeachment case. So I have to ask again: what is the scale that is so crooked that you can get away with giving an emergency lie to the Folketing, but if there are doubts and a matter like this one, then there must be an impeachment case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152726	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152726-2	Is it also true that the Social Democracy is the tongue of the balance when the vote is now taken? Let's just take, for example. It is because it is now said that social democracy is the tongue of the balance. Let us now assume that we voted differently and that the other parties voted as they had otherwise reported. I guess there'd still be an impeachment case, just like I can figure it out in my head. What, on the other hand, I think may be worth returning to is the questioner himself made a few times aware of it, and it really raises a question for me...
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152805	Thank you. Then it's the enquirer, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152807	Well, the key here is not so much the question of whether there will be an impeachment. There will be, unless the Minister of Justice trumps the Prime Minister and so on. That would be new. The key is whether there should be an impeachment case, and the key is how one intends to win it. Now we mentioned the matter of the prosecution and the position of the evidence and what the assessment of responsibility should be like. According to the Danish Road Traffic Act, driving against yellow is also illegal. I have no memory that it has ever led to an indictment that it has been done. You might get a ticket and an indictment. But that's kind of what we're dealing with here. Because if what Mrs Inger Løjberg has done is similar to what other ministers have done in the past without being put before an impeachment, but perhaps they have got a nose or have been asked to resign, or whatever it may be, then we are in the situation where it is no longer treated equally. And then it's relevant, as Mr. Peter Skaarup does ask why it is then that Mrs Inger Løjberg should be treated differently. There are quite a lot of reservations in the sub-report that has been made and we have not even had the report dealing with the work yet. So how can the Minister for Justice guarantee that Mrs Inger Løjberg will not be placed at a disadvantage here, for example? Mr. Morten Bødskov, when he gave a distress lie to the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152919	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152920	It's a little back to the same thing as before, isn't it? The Folketing is not bound in its decision whether or not to press charges with the modest modification that we mentioned earlier and which probably does not even apply, about a possible reservation about party political misuse of power. Therefore, the individual cases must of course be assessed in the context of the Parliament that sits and in the context of the time and circumstances that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152953	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127152955	That's an excellent answer, just not to the question I'm asking. Because I'm not asking if the Folketing is doing anything illegal by raising an impeachment case. They don't. The Folketing, I agree with that, unless you distort power, is completely free in your discretion. What is the question is whether the Minister of Justice really considers that what Inger Løjberg has violated is equivalent to something we have seen in the past without leading to impeachment. It's not like it's illegal to have bad morals. Then there would be plenty of criminals around the country. Nor is it illegal to do anything like that on the edge. But when it is something you do against a political opponent, you have to be sure that you have pure flour in your bag. That is why I ask for the fourth time: what has been done by Mrs Inger Løjberg, which is worse than Mr Løjberg? Morten Bødskov has done?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153039	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153041	But there are several reasons why I do not think it makes much sense to go into studying differences and similarities between cases. Especially not cases that have not been conducted because, as I have said, two cases are never the same. In some cases, as both the questioner and the co-questioner know very well, we in Parliament choose to resort to a nose; in some cases you choose to overturn a minister; sometimes you do a lawyer's examination, a committee of inquiry and everything else, which is a reflection of the specific political context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153117	Thank you. Then we'll have mr. Peter Skaarup again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153118	I think there is a little too much talk and a little too little answers to the questions being asked. However, I think there was an answer which I hope the Minister will acknowledge, namely that this is a very political matter. Then I would like to ask, as we now agree on the fact that it is a political matter, what political considerations the Socialists and the government have had since entering impeachment vote in favour of impeachment. And I would also like to ask: when the Minister says that you are not the tongue of the scales, does it really mean that the Minister believes that the Left and the Conservatives would have voted in favour of impeachment if the Socialists had not done so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153207	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153208	No, I do not think so, and I also said that if all the other parties did what they had otherwise reported. So I'm not gonna get paid for that anyway. The point is whether it is just a political matter: when we stand where we stand, it is, of course, largely because there has been the Instructor's Commission which has submitted a partial report and which has come to conclusions following which there have been infringements of the law, which have subsequently been assessed by some lawyers who are taking up that assessment. This is not just a political assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153247	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Peter Skaarup. The next question on the agenda is also for the Minister of Justice, this time by Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153256	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153303	Yeah, when we talk about it, of course I'll bring the literature. Thank you, President-in-Office. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that a majority in the Folketing would allegedly raise a case against former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Inger Løjberg in the light of the proposal on impeachment against the former Labour Ministers, in particular Svend Auken?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153319	Thank you for the floor. There is, of course, a certain danger here that I will repeat myself because, as I have mentioned earlier, every matter is its own which the Folketing chooses to deal with on its own terms, including, of course, the context in which there is in the Folketing in the given situation. Therefore, it does not make sense simply to compare cases which have taken place in other times or which have been judged by a different composite Parliament. Fortunately, it is very rare that we have a case in which there is a clear, independent and thorough assessment that there is a legal basis for initiating an impeachment case. That is what we have in this case, and for one reason or another it has not been the case in a number of other cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153413	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153414	But it makes sense to compare cases over time, as long as that is how you work in a community governed by the law. It's part of Roman law. If you have comparable cases, yes, you compare them. The Minister of Justice knows that very well. Both the defender and the prosecutor, and that is an entirely fixed part of the procedure, will claim where there are similar cases and then say: okay, where is the understanding of the content of the act and where is the level of punishment? So it is a completely fundamental part of the Danish legal system that you look at comparable cases. And I would say that if not both prosecutors and defenders in the upcoming impeachment case, which the Minister of Justice is helping to start, make use of past cases, then they are not doing their job. So, when the Minister of Justice says something like that, what is his attitude towards Professor Michael Götze, who in Berlingske today writes about how the criminal law content of this case is incredibly questionable? And that may be why the government has chosen non-criminal lawyers to review it and make recommendations on whether or not a case can be brought. After all, there is no doubt that Mrs Inger Løjberg has committed some sort of responsibilities. What is at the heart of the question is, then, whether her responsibility is greater than that, sir. Svend Auken, in his capacity as Minister of Labour at the time, had when he, together with other Labour Ministers, arranged for the Workers' Landsbank to handle the daily allowances so that the Workers' Landsbank received a profit of hundreds of million kroner, which the taxpayers were actually entitled to. Well, it was a very serious matter. At that time Parliament chose to say that there was no basis for saying that it was a breach of the law of ministerial responsibility. Sir. Ole Espersen said directly that it was not possible to say that it was a violation of the law of ministerial responsibility. It was the rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Erik Ninn-Hansen was the rapporteur of the Conservatives and considered that an impeachment should only be raised if there was reasonable reason to expect the indictment to lead to conviction. It has to be said that the Commission's sub-report raises a great deal of doubt about the evidence and the substance of the case. And Mrs Lone Dybkjær of the Radicals said that only an impeachment should be used as an extraordinary device. So, is there nothing here that gets the Minister for Justice, who is a clever and conscientious lawyer when he is not a minister or hopefully both at the same time also to think a little bit about what is going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153625	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153626	On the question of the use of past cases, which we mentioned earlier, it must be said basically that the previous cases that are being used are typically cases in which a judgment has actually been handed down, so that you can see what the courts have found is what has to be the law in this area where there may be doubts and typically there are only legal cases when there are doubts, because otherwise why should they be conducted? I think it is also reflected in what is the basis of this case that must say that some of what has been inspired is precisely the reasoning and weighting of various principles in the Tamil case, which was, of course, a matter for which the
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153701	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153702	Yeah, but now, for example, it is. In the Tamil case, the Danish Parliament also dropped the charge of misdirecting the Danish Parliament to Erik Ninn-Hansen. It was then done to Schlüter, and that case was lost. But to Erik Ninn-Hansen, that claim was not raised. This is what the Folketing is doing here, even though the error has to be said to lie at a somewhat lower point. Of course, I could have asked about the I.C. Christensen case, which led to total acquittal, but 100 years is after all some water under the bridge. But I would really like the Minister of Justice to take a very specific view of what was said when they refused to raise an impeachment case against Svend Auken, which had thus caused a loss of perhaps 100 million kroner in 1980 - that is, quite a lot of money - for the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153745	Yes, please! I'd like to ask you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt to fit the speaking time. I wasn't aware of the watch at all). When I get up, it means time's up. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153753	Well, I think that the speech was so passionate and good that the questioner should be allowed almost a little extra time to reach the whole line of argument. It would have been a pity and shame to interrupt him in the middle of it all, for then he would have just been completely freaked out we couldn't have. You shouldn't be spending your time on that. ) It was a defense for you! Dirty talk and cheap port wine! However, the arguments put forward, to which reference is made, are, in my view, correct and factual arguments in assessing whether or not an impeachment is to be made. These are not arguments which are legally bound; they are, in fact, political arguments which you as a parliamentarian have to choose as you like, because the indictment is unbound.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153840	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153842	Is this the last round? President Yes, and speaking time is 1⁄2 minutes). But I do not ask in any of the previous rounds that I have had whether it is legal for the Folketing to be able to indict. No doubt it is. But then you should have done it to Mr. Morten Bødskov, whom we spoke about earlier in the question from Mr. Peter Skaarup. What I am asking is whether it is really worth bothering 15 Supreme Court judges and taxpayers to run a process if you look at the previous cases that have been, where we have discussed matters in this high place, and where you have come up against impeachment for something that is worse than what Mrs Inger Nøjberg has done. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153920	That was exemplary. Thank you. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127153922	Thank you. Here is the question, then, whether the process is worth it, i.e. whether it is really worth putting up such a big machine to lead an impeachment case. Now the questioner has the doctoral thesis before him, and I do not, but it is in fact one of the arguments that Jens Peter Christensen says is a factual and relevant argument. It is practically enough to say about the matter in relation to the machinery we are setting in motion, that it may well be too big. But that must be the opinion of the questioner, my assessment, the opinion of the other Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154003	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. That was the end of Question 4. This brings us to Question 5 on the agenda, which is immediately the same questioner and the same minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154016	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154018	Does the Minister consider it reasonable that a majority in the Folketing would allegedly raise a case against former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Inger Nøjberg in the light of the proposal for an impeachment against former Minister for Greenland Johannes Kjærbøl, another Social Democrat?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154027	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154029	I noted that a former Minister of Justice, also named Hækkerup, was involved in the same case. That should not be what takes my speaking time in this context. I would just like to repeat my argument from the past that each case is its own and that it must be dealt with differently, and I simply cannot understand, and on this we know each other well enough, that there is no recognition that here too there is an element of the temporal context as it is, and of course also the composition of the Folketing, whether cases lead to impeachment or not. Here we are in a case where there is a clear, independent and thorough assessment that yes, there is a basis for initiating an impeachment case, which has subsequently been followed by a lawyer's assessment of the same issue, something like that, for example. has not been in a number of the other cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154139	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154141	Perhaps it is because the lawyers who have then been elected do not have the legal background. After all, there is a big difference between whether you're conducting a copyright case against an IT company or you're dealing with a murder case where you have to prove that the killer is guilty and must have life imprisonment. It's two completely different things. That is also why, as a lawyer, we typically specialize in an area, and since it is directly in the impeachment law that the process of the Court of Justice follows from the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is remarkable that one does not choose just a single criminal lawyer to assess whether one should raise this case. When I mention the case of Johannes Kjærbøll, it is not just because it is one of the greatest scandals of modern Danish history, where the fact that a Greenland minister is quite openly misleading the Danish Parliament, I assume that it was almost from this platform, because it was in 1957, and then we were gathered here, leading to the fact that the Hedtoft accident becomes a reality, and 95 people are killed, including the Greenlandic Member who had asked the question, and it came to the conclusion that what the Minister had done was not enough for one to be able to raise an impeachment case. 95 people had died, who were lied to the Folketing, no impeachment. And what was the justification? We are over there in what the Minister of Justice has wanted to talk about over the last half hour, so now I really hope that we will get to the bite. For there it comes to the question of the indictment and not just the question of the proof of responsibility, but the act of parliament. For then Hans Hækkerup, the Minister of Justice at that time, said, and with the permission of the President, I quote: I cannot fail to stress that the principle of law laid down in Article 711 of the Code of Procedure must, in my opinion, apply to the High Things and to the individual Members. For my part, when I have come to the view that such impeachment cannot be brought through to a conviction, it is my duty to vote against a proposal to that effect. Quote out. I have to say that, of course, § 711 today is § 96, it has been moved into the Code of Procedure, but it is the principle of objectivity that we are talking about, that is to say, that you only have to raise an indictment when there is a predominantly probability that it can be won. And I just have to say to the Minister for Justice, both as a minister and as a clever lawyer, that we have gradually confirmed each other in some times that there is no major likelihood that Mrs Inger Løjberg can be judged, both because of what is in the sub-report, but also because of the unhappy situation that it is not even criminal lawyers that have been given to assess it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154407	Thank you. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154408	And after my family's interpretation of the law at the time, things have happened, among other things. the book of the thesis in which the questioner is asked, in which it is precisely assessed whether the principle of objectivity is a legal binding on the possibility for the Folketing to raise an impeachment and in which it is found that it is not. It is found that it is an objective argument that it could be an essential argument, but it is not a legal binding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154443	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154444	No, but there is, of course, the small exception that the Left Socialists have put forward and which the Minister of Justice has mentioned several times now, without mentioning the source of the quotation, namely if there is political abuse, and that is the idea that is being affected here. When you can see that former ministers, where we are not going back to the 1950s or 1980s, but in the governments where our present Hækkerup himself has been sitting, have made mistakes, illegal acts which, I would say, are at least legal in line with, and probably even worse than, what Mrs Inger Nøvberg has done, it will be politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154520	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154521	Then we are back to the fact that there is not a custom which binds the Parliament's discretion, and yet whether or not to indict, and nevertheless a custom of law, but that there may be a bond, but perhaps not even a commitment, which makes reservations about political misuse of power, that is to say a misuse of party political power, that is to say that an impeachment would be initiated only in order to hit opponents. This is certainly not the case here, but even if you took it as the basis, it would not be a situation in which you would say "Jens Peter Christensen" in any case interprets the text "that here you have moved beyond your legal constraints."
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154604	The last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154605	Thank you, President. But the premise of that interpretation doesn't make sense, Minister of Justice. It only makes sense in the case that the Folketing could then be judged for making a wrong indictment. And who would judge the Folketing? Her Majesty the Queen? I think she's smarter than the Justice Minister to stay out of this morass. That is why it is a question of self-discipline, and that is where the former Minister of Justice's reference to the Code of Procedure and the principle of objectivity becomes interesting. No, it's not illegal what the Folketing is doing to Inger Løjberg, it's just distasteful.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154640	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154640-2	That is where we find the political disagreement, whether this is unsavory or not. I think it is difficult for us, the Social Democrats, to come to the conclusion that an impeachment should be raised here; a point of view which, incidentally, is shared by parties to the left of us, but to a considerable extent by parties to the right of us, is to be noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154709	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Morten Messerschmidt just to drink off. Then the questions to the Minister for Justice are also closed, and I think we may just have to give a moment so that we can get the Minister for Home Affairs and Social Affairs into his own place. Thank you. The next question is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 6 to social and the Minister for the Interior before there was a rocade and that is by Mrs Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154750	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154752	Thank you. Should the government's proposals for a profit ban on social offers be taken as an expression of the government's view that public and self-serving social offers are better at providing good and secure offers for socially vulnerable than private offers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154808	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127154809	Thank you for the question. No. The government's proposal to ban the taking of profits on private social offers is not about whether some types of offers are better or worse than others. Nor is it about communalising or state-making our welfare societies, as some have speculated. Basically, it is about ensuring that the welfare crowns that we as a society spend on social services for vulnerable children and people with disabilities go to what they are meant to do, namely to help some of the country's most vulnerable children, young people and adults. Instead, too much of the community's money ends up in the pockets of private owners, such as: foreign capital funds. In recent years, unfortunately, we have seen more grotesque cases where it is not the case that community funds benefit those citizens, but where community money is used to bring private owners' pockets instead of being spent on better care, more employees or more experiences for vulnerable children and young people. In 2019 alone, a minimum of 28 million was drawn. kr. out of commercial private offers as dividends to the owners. We cannot and will not just look at it implicitly. Moreover, we are not doing so today in the field of school. The principle that applies here is that the government should also apply to social matters, where we are dealing with some of the most vulnerable in our society. We already see that companies with foreign capital funds buy social offers at home, and we know that the capital companies are where good business can be done. That is what we want to put an end to. That is what our proposal is about. There is no ideological opposition to private offers. Because with the government's proposals there will also be private alternatives to public social services, but in a way, so that profits are reinvested for the benefit of those intended for the money. We therefore believe that there should be both public and private offers. But the point is, if you're in this business to make big profits and pull that money away from the vulnerable citizens, you're in the wrong place. We think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155011	Thanks to the Minister it was just in the second. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155013	If this proposal is not about what the Minister is saying, which is what best provides security for children, then it is quite difficult for us in the Left to understand why such political intervention is being taken here, so why private companies are not being allowed to be allowed to do so, and companies and public limited companies in the social field are not being allowed to do so. In fact, we in the Left see it as absolutely essential for a well-functioning welfare society that we have a good interaction between public and private, and we would like to see more private suppliers. And yes, there will be some profit, and that is basically just the risk premium that companies take. It's like borrowing money from the bank. We do not see this as wrong and I hope the Minister will clarify why it is wrong or why it is unethical. And yes, there have been some broken vessels in the industry that have been called orphanage barons, and we can quickly agree that is not all right, but can the Minister also confirm that, in these cases, illegal acts have been committed? So why is more legislation needed? Can we, instead of having no further supervision, ensure that this does not happen? So when I ask this question, it's just to understand why you want this intervention. In other words, why will no profit whatsoever be allowed in the area of welfare? We have not been involved in the negotiations since October, the government has only negotiated with the support parties, and I hope that today we can learn a little more why we do not want these offers, because we could simply regulate supervision instead. Will the Minister not help to improve supervision? We would like to see supervision where there was openness both to public and private offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155158	Thank you. The questioner is told here in his introduction that this is not about what is best for the children. Well, this is precisely about the money that the community spends on the most vulnerable children in our society, those who have to live in 24-hour institutions and places of residence, those people with severe disabilities who are deeply dependent on the help they can get when they live in settlements when they are in the care of other people. We believe that the money that the community spends on those citizens must also benefit those citizens. They should not be drawn out as profits or profits, they should be reinvested for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155228	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155230	The Minister is quite out of the question here, because the private offers that exist have a very low level of profit, and in fact they have a profit rate of only 2.4 per cent, which compared to other industries is considerably lower, also compared to those of the school area, and the quality difference is perhaps not there is any evidence that private offers are doing better in terms of quality. So why is it that you do not want to allow public limited liability companies and limited liability companies at all, that you will not allow private suppliers at all if it is not about some sort of ideological struggle where you think that the public is better?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155305	Firstly, the rapporteur would very much like to provide me with the evidence that the commercial private sector is doing better than the public sector. I know there is no justification for saying that. The rapporteur asks about the level of profits: that is, when we can see that 45 commercial private offers last year attracted at least 28 million. kr. I would like to say that it is money that was better spent on vulnerable citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155340	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner. Mrs. Karen Ellemann, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155354	Thank you very much. It's an incredible picture that's created inside your head when you hear the minister talking about these horrible private offers, which, imagine, have had a profit of 28 million. kr. We are talking about an area of private seats in the region of 2.4 billion. kr., then these 28 million. kr. Excuse me! I simply do not think that there are private players who enter this industry for profit. I recognise that there have been a few stumbled vessels, and they have also been severely hit. However, the crusade that the minister has now started against these private institutions is going to create a gigantic problem in terms of who will be around our country to be able to deliver well-functioning offers to the most vulnerable people today they deliver every three. Isn't the Minister worried about what's going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155459-2	I simply have to say if you think that 28 million. kr. on 45 offers is nothing: well, that's it. It is a night watch more for the insecure children, and it is several activities on the accommodation offer where you sit right now and are more lonely than ever because of the corona restrictions. I would just like to say that I only disagree with the Left if you pull on your shoulder and say that the 28 million. kr., which disappears from the vulnerable citizens they were meant for, nothing is. After all, it is a political disagreement, and it is always fair to have political disagreements, but I stand by that. I believe that when the community allocates funds to these vulnerable people, whether it is to the children placed in it, or it is to people with severe disabilities or very socially vulnerable adult people who have a background in homelessness and abuse, then those funds should also be used for those citizens. They are not to be drawn into private pockets or to generate greater profits from capital funds. That money must be invested in the everyday lives of those citizens and in high quality in their efforts towards them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155602	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155603	When the Minister is in such a hurry to be offended by what I, in the main picture, do not consider to be a completely horrible profit I do not see myself mad at the fact that there are private companies running what I would call a healthy business and which are by no means obscene business, apart from the few stingy vessels, the Minister is just in a completely different world. And the Minister cannot explain what these institutions are actually reinvesting and how they make the wheels turn around. However, one thing that the Minister cannot deny is that the satisfaction of the institutions and that there are numerous studies that support • is markedly positive and that will be destroyed by the Minister. I think that is a completely wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155648	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155648-2	I simply have to say to the Left because it is not the first time we have these discussions that I can't shade boxes with things that aren't right. We still believe that there should be a private alternative. We're not trying to state everything or localize everything. There's a lot of good private deals out there. What we oppose is that you can draw money out and put it in the owner's private pockets or let it go to capital funds that have invested, not because they are deeply concerned about how to provide the best care for exposed children or people with disabilities, but because they must have a return on an investment, and I do not think that the Community's crowns should be used for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155723	Thank you. We're just gonna get the booze off. And then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155727	When the Minister tells my colleague that the government is not trying to remove private offers, that is simply not right. In other words, with the proposal that the government has made, there will be the removal of limited companies and public limited companies. We want to intervene in forms of organisation, we want to remove private providers from the social market. And when we say that we don't understand why, it's because they actually have a very low profit margin • only 2.4 per cent. have private suppliers, and this is very low compared to other industries. And then there are a few stingy vessels, but it is precisely that illegal acts have already been committed. So why do we not want to regulate this with improved supervision instead? Where should all private suppliers suffer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155809	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155811	After all, the rapporteur's picture is wrong if it is to be called that the places where millions of dollars are withdrawn are only where illegal acts have taken place. That's not true. It is also true that we have seen horrible examples of people who bend and break the law in order to draw millions of kroner away from the most vulnerable children, but there are also examples of 45 offers and that is what the figures show • completely within the law today has been able to draw at least 28 million. kr. out in 2019 and that's a lot of money that could have gone to, for example. more staff in the places where our most vulnerable children live.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155849	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Bjerre and to Mrs Karen Ellemann. The next question is No. 7 on the agenda, and it's also for the Social and Interior Minister before there was a rokade and it's by Sten Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155908	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister believe that the flexibility that exists between municipalities, private individuals and foundations when it comes to the establishment of housing and residences can be lifted by the municipalities alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155920	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127155921	Thank you for the question. However, I must begin by admitting frankly that it is somewhat unclear to me what exactly is meant by the question, i.e. what kind of flexibility it is, Mr President. Stén Knuth refers to. However, I assume that the question relates to what we were also just discussing on the previous issue, namely the exclusion of profits from social services. Let me just make it clear at a start that the government has not proposed banning private offers, so it is only the government itself that will have to take up the task of establishing and operating social offers. We have nothing against private social offers. What the government, on the other hand, wants to ensure is that public welfare crowns actually go to the efforts of vulnerable children, young people and adult people with severe disabilities who live on or use our social offer and that that money is not, instead, being drawn out as a million-dollar profit to private owners. With our proposal, there will continue to be private offers as an alternative to the public sector. They will simply not be able to withdraw the profits from the offer to a private ownership group such as the United Kingdom. a capital fund. So we want to ensure that there is still a private alternative, while at the same time making profits and that means public welfare funds are reinvested and used for the benefit of the people for whom the money is intended. So it is a charlatist when the questioner and his party colleagues try to put it up as if the government wants to localize all social services. It is precisely the government's intention that there should still be a private alternative, but they should not be able to pull large profits out of the offer and away from the vulnerable children or people with severe disabilities who are, of course, deeply dependent on the community's help. Private offers are, of course, not only commercial private offers, but also those of the self-interest, which, in parentheses, make up the vast majority of social offers, and so we can only note that non-public offers are an important part of the overall offer picture, and they are also included on an equal footing with public offers in the municipal supply. And we believe, as I have also just discussed with the author's party colleague, that most private offers do well, but for us it is absolutely crucial that the welfare crowns we spend on vulnerable citizens also go to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160124	Sir. Stone Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160126	Thank you. Well, the consequence of your proposal will be that nothing private will be established in the future, and I will come back to that. When we've asked about this, how many people are being set up and how many people shut down in the various years, it's just to tell you a little about the flexibility that lies in this. In 2018, 33 private offers will be opened and 12. In 2019, 35 private offers will be opened and 16. So there is a certain flexibility out there that the municipalities use in their need to have some children placed. That is one part of the question. The second part is what the Minister also discussed earlier with my colleagues. Well, what the government is doing is shutting down everything private. It is day-to-day offers, it is schools, and it is in relation to the elderly; when you talk free municipalities, they cannot be allowed to choose in the future, that is to say to have the free choice. And these are settlements, which are also included in the proposal that has come today and congratulate them, because there is actually quite a lot of good in it, but precisely in this area it will continue to persecute the private sector, and it will make no private person want to establish themselves, that is, because it will be in such strict conditions and it will be without being able to make any profit; it will not see the private establishment in the future. That is why my question again is: are the municipalities ready to carry out this task on their own? And what will the Minister do to get the municipalities ready for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160255	First of all, I would like to thank you for the positive words to the first-time children. We have been working on this for a very long time and it is a heartchild for me, so I would like to thank the questioner for mentioning that here today. It is a great day in that way to have finally put it forward, and I look forward very much to the negotiations on it. Then I just have to hurry on, so I get to my answer and say: listen, this government won't shut down all private offers, and it's wrong to say that we'll see a municipalisation of this area. There must still be a private alternative to the municipal, and we have no reason to assume that there will not be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160329	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160330	Those discussions have been going on since the summer. I remember myself attending some of the first meetings and, as the previous speaker said, the Left has been disconnected since October or November. So it is for just over six months that both private and public have looked into an agreement that is still on the way. Does the Minister not recognise that there can be some private people out there and be somewhat nervous about what is actually going to happen in this whole area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160358	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160359	I think it is really important that we stop this fight, where it should look as if there is no innovation in the public sector, in other words that it is only something that takes place in the private sector, or where the self-serving private individuals are despised, which is of course the vast majority and are also those who have borne much of our welfare efforts for these vulnerable groups, including through history. There is a lot of innovation and good work going on here. And to this, it is said that there will be no future offer with the proposal made by the government, I would say: you will still be able to earn a good salary, you will still be able to get your investment back. We simply do not think that this is something we should be able to draw large surpluses on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160442	Thank you. Then the final question from Mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160444	That was not my question. The question is whether the Minister does not recognise that there can be companies out there who are worried about both the children and the relatives of those who are in private places about what is going to happen in this area. We have been at it for six months, and the Minister's suggestion that everything private will be closed has been known for six months. So will the Minister not recognise that there may be a nervousness out there about what is actually going to happen? And then it could be that the Minister would also answer: when will we get an agreement in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160513	Well, then we are a little where we were, too, the first time I had the floor in this round, when the questioner says about the Minister's suggestion that all the private offers will be closed. That's not what the government's been playing out on. And it's clear that if that's what you go around telling out there, then it can raise a nervousness. We still believe that there should be private offers in addition to the municipal offers and to the regional offers that we also have; we just do not think it is fair that the welfare crowns that we as a community, as a community, give priority to the most vulnerable children and to people with severe disabilities, should be pulled out of those offers and put into private pockets.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160549	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. There are no more questions. And thank you, sir. Stén Knuth. And also thank you for just getting ripped off. Then we prepare for the next question, which is item 8 on the agenda. It's for the Secretary of Defense by Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160611	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with his party and parliamentary colleagues that the officer training should be moved to Funen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160618	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160619	First of all, let me say that the Ministry of Defence's area represents one of Denmark's largest jobs, and of the more than 20 000 jobs in the field of ministers are approx. 16,000 located outside Copenhagen. In relation to the officers' schools, I have seen the proposal and I am happy to discuss it in the conciliation circle if someone chooses to take it up. There has been no request so far. In the defense settlement, which was concluded before my time, there was agreement to maintain the over 150-year-old location of Army Officer School at Frederiksberg Castle. I feel that an agreement is an agreement, and that is why I refer to it. When it comes to establishing training places on Funen, I certainly do not wish to reject this, because it is quite true that Funen is sparsely occupied when it comes to defence jobs, but I do not see officers' schools as the most obvious in terms of local jobs. On the other hand, there are a number of other options, because much is happening in defence these years. Drone technologies and robotics are areas where there is great potential for Funen. I am also looking at how we can spread training in the field of emergency, cyber and home protection to larger parts of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160730	Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160732	Thank you, Minister. It is clear that when a prominent Social Democrat like Bjarne Laustsen raises this here he is a former rapporteur, former Home Guard Commissioner and has had a large number of posts, and he is also a member of the committee I am interested to hear whether this is something the government is considering. I guess it's not just a random proposal that comes in handy when such a prominent socialist makes this proposal. Is that something the Minister is backing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160759	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160800	I have now read the speech and it is very clear that it stands for the writer's own account. It says directly in the speech that it is not the expression of social democratic policy but the expression of the writer's own position. When it comes specifically to officer training, much of the training time is carried out at the places of employment around the country, and for all three officer training courses the diploma part is carried out at the officers' schools in Copenhagen. All other parts except the function part of the navy's cadets are carried out outside Copenhagen, including the garrisons in Varde, Slagelse, Karup and Frederikshavn. That is why I do not actually agree with the content either. It does not reflect the reality there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160841	Thank you. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160842	Thank you, Minister. Should I understand that this is a blank rejection of Bjarne Laustsen's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160849	I think I just answered that quite clearly. An agreement has been reached in the current conciliation on officer training, and if we are to discuss the relocation of officer training, which I do not agree with is the most obvious thing, I would prefer to recommend a satellite version of that we can discuss if there is a desire for it as we know it from the police area. There it has been a very, very great success to create a satellite model of the police school west of Storebælt. I am happy to discuss this if there is a wish, but I do not see how we are doing a complete relocation of the officer's training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160928	Thank you. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160928-2	Thank you for that very, very clear answer. I am very pleased with that, that is to say the answer is so clear and clear. In relation to the relocation of a satellite, I would like to say that I could well imagine it, and I would very much like to discuss this with the Minister. So if the Minister is prepared to do so, I think that is something we should discuss in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160949	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127160949-2	I'd be happy to discuss that. After all, there are two things that conflict a little bit with each other. There is a long story, a tradition that I think is important to keep in mind, and that is why we have the army's officer training placed at Frederiksberg. But there is a dilemma that I think is quite reasonable to talk about, and that is, of course, that the vast majority of jobs are far away from Frederiksberg, and I think we need to talk openly and honestly about that. When it comes to Funen in concrete terms, there is a series of measures which have a shorter offshoot and which I would also like to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161027	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. That was the end of paragraph 8. Paragraph 9 on the agenda is also a question to the Minister for Defence, and it is also by Lars Christian Lilleholt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161047	Here you go, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161049	Thank you, President. What considerations has the Minister made in view of his party's joint announcement to move the officer training courses to Funen in relation to moving defence jobs to Funen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161059	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161100	As I stressed in my previous reply, it is important that there is a balance between country and city when it comes to the distribution of government jobs in Denmark. The Danish defence and defence capabilities are located all over Denmark, because this is a crucial condition for the defence to be able to solve its tasks. The defence helps to ensure a balance between country and city and bind Denmark together. We must continue to contribute to this, and I have a great deal of focus on it. I have no plans to close the 150-year-old army officer school at Frederiksberg Castle. You are welcome to take it up in the conciliation circle if you want it, but on a stand-by basis I would not recommend it, because there is also an important story in it. However, I have a number of other proposals on how to create more local jobs, both in Funen and elsewhere in Denmark, and with the growth that the defence has and which I also foresee the defence will have in the coming years, because it reflects the level of threat in Denmark and therefore needs a greater and wider defence, I believe that there is certainly a large space to discuss educational places and also that those areas where there is not so much defence today are better represented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161211	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161212	Thank you, Minister. Can the Minister reveal what considerations are being made and what kind of jobs might be relocated?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161223	In other words, there are some technological developments which simply lead to new areas of defence, and that also requires training in the future. It is, for example, in drone technology and robotics, and also the cyber area is growing very rapidly. Both with the threats we see, but also with climate challenges and with the increased need for preparedness for storms, floods and other events, the emergency area and the Home Guard area are also some of the things that make ever greater demands on levels of education, for example, and there I think it is natural to discuss where they lie and what they contain.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161311	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161312	Thank you. Can the Minister say anything about the time frame for this? Because it's good enough to talk about it. I could also see that a few months ago the Minister was in Fyns Amts Avis with a headline saying that you would like to have some more jobs in defence for the Funen area. It's not enough to talk. After all, we also need some action. So when can we expect some initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161334-2	I have started a work which looks broadly at what is required for education over the coming years, so quite simply: where do we need more education? The Cyber area, for example, is an area where we will need significantly more labour and therefore also our own training. But it is clear that when we talk about Funen, where, for example, we have a drone test centre lying down and drones become an increasingly important capability militarily, also in order to be able to be defense, it is one of the areas you could look at on the very short lane.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161416	Here you go with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161417	Thank you. We would very much like to take part in discussions on this. I think that is interesting and I also think that a clear commitment has been made to look at the possibilities that exist. Because does the Minister not agree with me that when you look at Funen, you can say that this is the part of the country and that area and now we are both elected there, also the minister elected there where there are very, very thin jobs in defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161444-2	I fully agree with that, and I have the basic view that the defence must be represented throughout Denmark. After all, it is a matter of ensuring that we have security and security throughout Denmark and that defence is an important institution in relation to it. So for me, it's really, really important that the defense is all over the country. It is also about Copenhagen, i.e. that there is also security in Copenhagen, but that there is also in the rest of Denmark, both on Funen and in all corners of Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161518	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense, and thank you, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt. That was the end of paragraph 9. It is the case that the acting Minister of Industry is on his way, so we are just taking a short break.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161719	Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161722	Thank you. How will the Minister comply with the undertaking to look at the documentation requirement of the aid packages to ensure that suppliers of, for example, souvenirs for souvenir shops are included in summer aid packages?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161736	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161737	Thank you for the question. With our joint decision to reopen the general compensation schemes, all companies will have access to compensation schemes from 9 December 2020 until 7 February 2021. Once we start to open up society again, the targeted compensation schemes that we have jointly decided will come into force again. Here, companies must demonstrate that they are affected by one or more compensatory restrictions. With the political agreements from summer and autumn, we have agreed that a number of suppliers are still covered by the targeted compensation schemes... I ran over here, so I am a little out of breath! It has been suppliers that we have been able to clearly define. This is true, for example. taxis and sub-contractors to restaurants. However, subcontractors to souvenir stores are not covered by the targeted schemes. This is partly due to the fact that souvenir producers cannot be clearly defined in the same way as the other subcontractors. That would make it difficult to say exactly who is entitled to compensation. This is because it is difficult to define what separates souvenir shops from other shops that also sell goods to tourists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161859	Thank you to the acting Minister for Economic Affairs. We know the big staircase out here in front of the hall, and there are really, really high steps. Now the minister can have his breath. And then Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm has two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127161908	Well, I actually understand the answer a little disheartening, namely that the Minister has no intention of helping suppliers to souvenir shops, and I am both really sorry and also surprised by that. In answer to question S 701 asked by my colleague Torsten Schack Pedersen, the Minister answers: "I will therefore look into the possibilities and solutions for subcontractors of souvenir shops to make use of the compensation schemes. ▪ I had an expectation when I asked now that I could learn a little more about what would be done to include these sub-suppliers for souvenir stores. That's why I'm a little puzzled that I'm just being told that you can't delineate that. Is it because the Minister has completely given up helping suppliers to souvenir shops, or is it because the Minister is still working? Could the Minister clarify this a little more?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162010	No, it is simply because of the very practical fact that I am currently in charge of two ministries. That is why I run extra fast and came running up the stairs in here and was so out of breath that I could not give in time to the whole of what I was able to answer was that, on the basis of the agreements made by the party of the questioner and my party and other parties, it is difficult, and that will not be possible to make that distinction. But it is true that we are of course aware of the problem that souvenir shops have, which is why I have also asked the Danish Business Authority to look into what you can actually do and find out about possible solutions. Finally, I also think it is worth mentioning that there are other options available to the souvenir shops. We have, for example. established a conversion pool for hard-hit industries, such as: can be used for competence raising, digital conversion, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162102	The asker, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162103	Now I think the Minister was able to do the same thing I did before, namely to confuse the souvenir shops with the suppliers, and I am talking about the souvenir suppliers, not the shops. I would be very happy and positive about working to find a solution for them, because I think that is problematic. It is logical that a Dane does not necessarily go down and buy some souvenir that stands on Denmark; it is something more you do when you go somewhere where you haven't been before. So can the Minister reveal a little bit of what the Minister sees as solutions and what the timing is to help the souvenir suppliers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162135	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162136	Okay, I understand that there's a distinction here between stores and suppliers... I was a little confused about what was specifically asked for... but in relation to the suppliers, that's right. And these are also the ones we have to look at now, in relation to what you can actually do about different things. We are working as fast as we can and we will, of course, keep the rapporteurs informed. So just to finish this conversion pool, as there is: we think that many of those companies could also benefit from it in terms of skills increase, in terms of digital conversion, in terms of conversion to marketing products or services in new markets. It might be interesting for some of these suppliers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162213	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162215	Well I would actually like to maintain that we have these companies in Denmark, so I hope that Denmark will be opened up again and that we will again have tourists to Denmark who will buy Danish souvenirs, and then I think it is nice that we have some Danish souvenir suppliers. Therefore, I think what is interesting is whether we can keep these companies alive until we get a more normal state in Denmark. I do not think that the conversion pool is necessarily the solution, but more aid packages. Can the Minister clarify whether this is happening within the next month or for the next two months? When does the Minister judge we can have an answer to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162248	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162249	I totally share the intention. It is clear that we have a general approach to this, which is that we have to keep our hands on all the companies we can at all. That is also why we have paid out about 27 billion. kr. Now in aid packages. It's really important. We know that there are many who work hard out there and find it difficult to keep their skin on their noses. In relation to the specific issue we are talking about here, as I said, we are looking at what we can do. I cannot give the questioner a specific date, but of course I can promise that we will involve the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162321	Thank you, Mrs Schack Elholm, to the President-in-Office of the Council and to Mrs Schack Elholm. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Louise Schack Elholm We're about to be experts in this shit. That's right. The next item is the report (Doc. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162355	Thank you. When the Minister says that the delays in the payment of compensation include: is due to extensive fraud control, does the Minister intend to pay the money first and carry out fraud control afterwards, not least in view of the fact that the penalty for the fraud of corona-related services has been lifted, in order to reduce the time taken for the proceedings?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162417	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162418	Thank you for the question. It is an important priority that we can pay compensation to companies within a short time frame so that they can get the compensation they are entitled to and badly need. The control of the Danish Business Administration has been established on the basis of a balancing of two considerations on the one hand, the need to help the companies as quickly as possible and, on the other hand, the fact that taxpayers' money does not end up in the wrong hands. That is why there are also companies that have gone out for increased control. Fortunately, this is true of only a few companies, as the vast majority of applications come from proper and law-abiding companies. The Danish Business Administration has assured me that they are doing what they can to get the money out to the companies as soon as possible. Since summer, there has been an average processing time of 9 days across the compensation schemes. This means that the vast majority of companies have received their compensation relatively quickly. In addition, I am pleased that we have reached a milestone, and I can say that the Danish Business Authority has now been through all applications for aid packages received in 2020. The vast majority of applications from 2020 have resulted in compensation payments, approx. 12% has received a refusal and less than 0,5%. the applications from 2020 remain under examination as additional information is missing or the applications have been taken for control due to a lack of evidence or fraud control. I am fully aware that many companies are still having difficulty in the corona crisis. For this reason, the Danish Business Authority is already working on the many new applications from 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162552	Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162553	Thank you. The question has been asked, as the Minister has probably already calculated, on the basis of an article in Berlingske about a Swiss restaurant, in fact Scandinavia's only Swiss restaurant, at Frederiksberg, called Kanton 27. I have spoken to the owner named Benjamin Weber, and he looks like this, if the minister is interested in seeing the people it is about Jørgensen showing out a photo). At least he doesn't recognize it with the nine days. It has been 2 months since he submitted the application for an application, which his accountant should have DKK 40,000. to draw up. He has received a grant of 18,000 kroner. The subsidies are not sufficient to ensure that the company keeps its nose shut. That's what it is. We all share a shared responsibility for this. But if you do not get the money within the time it should take, then you are really on it. Now Benjamin Weber's got the money he was supposed to get. They came a few days after the newspaper article in Berlingske. It's probably a coincidence, but it's certainly a good thing. But from two months to nine days, there's a jump. So I have asked: has there been something in the application that was not good, something that was inadequate or otherwise inadequate? And the answer was: not at all, everything was exactly as it was supposed to be. I know the government is busy and working hard, and I fully understand that. This is an extraordinary situation that we are all in. But it is simply no use not getting the subsidy you need, especially when that subsidy is not enough to cover the costs you have at all. How would you feel if the salary did not tick into 2 or 3 months in a row and you still had all the fixed expenses to be paid? This is really, really serious, and I hope that the government will take this problem seriously, because otherwise we will see a wave of bankruptcies in a short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162803	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162804	I can assure you that we take it seriously, and I also think that with over 245,000 applications that have been processed and with an average processing time of 9 days, we owe it to the board and the very hard-working employees who are working day in and day out with this. I think that's actually pretty good. What I am, of course, fully aware of is the fact that for those who have taken longer time, so to speak, to take up to 9 days, because there are some for whom it has taken far less than 9 days, of course it does not matter, because they have their own problems President Thank you!). I may be able to answer it a little more in more detail later.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162846	Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162847	Thank you. Yes, because it takes something to bring down an average of 9 days if there are some who wait 2 months, as we have seen in the case here. I don't know how we're gonna proceed with this. Could we perhaps clarify this matter more specifically? So, what is the reason why it has taken so long in this particular case? How many other specific cases are there? I have written and asked for examples and have received more from people who have been waiting very, very long for compensation. So somewhere there's something in the system that doesn't work completely optimally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162924	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127162924-2	Now the questioner's a lawyer. I do not think that the questioner really thinks that I should stand down here in the Chamber and deal with a specific matter. Of course I can't. Now more general questions were asked about control cases, and I can say a little about that. There are approx. 8,900 control cases examined. 800 are still being dealt with, and of the 800 open controls, no one is older than a month and has not been dealt with for the first time. Then there may be other reasons why you cannot settle your case. It can, for example, be done. be incomplete documentation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163003	Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163004	I did not propose that we do this in this Chamber. I asked if I could put some questions to the Minister, in which case we could look into what the hell has gone wrong in these cases that we have seen. It must also be in the interests of the government itself that it will not be here to draw the picture if the reality is different and the vast majority of cases are dealt with quickly and flexibly. So what I was asking was whether we could find out in writing between me and the Minister what has gone wrong on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163036	The questioner probably knows it even better than I do, but I think that there are certain confidentiality considerations that make it impossible for me to hand over case files to a member of the Folketing. The questioner can, of course, send a written question and then we can see how far we can go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163057	Thank you to the President-in-Office of the Council, and thank you very much. Jan E. Jørgensen. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has to stay here, because in Question 12 the same team is the acting Minister for Economic Affairs and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163114	Thank you, and we will be a little on the same street: what is the Minister's position on the rise in unemployment as a result of the failure to pay out aid packages?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163122	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that the coronapandemic has unfortunately meant that some Danes have lost their jobs. After a good period in the autumn, with strong developments in the labour market, we have seen an increase in unemployment in December and January in the wake of the stricter restrictions. We cannot escape the fact that the pandemic is putting itself in the labour market, but I think it is worthwhile to welcome the fact that this time the increase appears to be considerably less steep than it was in the spring. I am convinced that it would probably have looked considerably worse if we had not put in place the comprehensive aid packages that hold hands with companies and jobs in a very difficult situation at present. I can inform you that the wage compensation scheme has so far supported more than 280,000 employees and more than 32,000 companies. Together with the new temporary work-sharing scheme, the other aid packages and a large number of other measures, this means that fewer employees will be unemployed than would otherwise have been in the future, even if there are stricter corona restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163226	Thank you. After all, wage compensation can only be considered when you have a company that still exists and that can still have the employees in question. And the reports we receive, and there has also been a recent survey aimed primarily at SMEs, shows that one in ten believes that there is a very high risk that they will go bankrupt in a very short time. So it does not make sense to talk about compensation for wages, because if the company in which you are employed has gone bankrupt, there is no one who can pay your salary and then can receive compensation. So we are now in a situation where it is getting really serious, because the agony is stretched out as far as it is, because the corona has been harder to knock down than we probably any of us had feared when we saw this beginning. VAT is due on 1 March. This is something that companies have been allowed to put off those companies that have problems. For some things are going very well; supermarkets etc. There are no problems, at least not to the same extent. But there are a lot of people who are now looking into the date of 1 March when VAT is due and who simply do not know how to find the money. What does the government have in place? What further initiatives are envisaged to ensure that we do not have a large number of bankruptcies and therefore also a large number of unemployed people? For example, something like the postponement of VAT payments here on 1 March, was it one of the things that the government would be willing to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163412	It is, of course, part of the picture here that, despite the very, very serious situation we are in last year, we actually had fewer companies that were in bankruptcy than we have in the previous four years. One economist will say: yes, but that is enough because some of these aid packages have actually held hands under some companies which would have gone bankrupt under normal circumstances. This is part of the picture because it shows that the aid packages we have fortunately made with a broad majority in the Folketing have helped a great many people. Then it is clear that there are many who are in danger now again because we have new restrictions and because this seems to be dragging on. That is why it is good that we have now opened up all the general aid packages, among others. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163457	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163457-2	Thank you. But now I asked specifically about VAT, because it is a date that stands and ticks, and I understand that it is not in my question, so it is fine if the Minister has not prepared for it. But that was one of the things that could at least give a hope out there that the big bill that stands and waits on March 1 • the clock ticks and has to be paid, one could see there was at least a willingness from the government to consider looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163527	No, well, we haven't here today on this occasion or, by the way, new things that we can publish in relation to new packages. However, it is clear that we are, of course, constantly evaluating the situation out there and are in continuous dialogue with business. I would say that the packages we have now, fortunately, got out to work at the latest as the last of the big ones; the fixed costs we expect about 25,000 companies to benefit from. That's probably about 2 billion. kr. for the months of January and December. Fortunately, everything else will help very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163607	Thank you. Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163608	But will the Minister take the proposal back? I understand that the Minister is a substitute teacher and so on. and have been thrown into this area at short notice, so I have every sympathy for that, but will the Minister take the idea back with him in the discussions that are being held in the government? For that is something we can see very many, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have a huge overdraft and which do not have a huge amount of capital that they can draw on, really stand and fear.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163639	Thanks for caring. I can say about the thing about being a substitute, that it is only the first day you are allowed to say it, and then it goes so fast in such a ministry that you should preferably be upstairs in all matters. That is why, of course, it is not a completely new proposal put forward by the author here; it is also one that rapporteurs from the same party and others have made in the past. So, of course, this is something we discuss and look at. Overall, I believe that we are in quite a good place in relation to the packages we have now, but we are, of course, monitoring the situation all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163709	Thank you to the acting Minister for Economic Affairs. Wait a minute, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. We'd like to get the booze off, but thank you for the questions. Jan E. Jørgensen It's actually smartest that it's the one that's coming, like when you borrow a handball court or a tennis court). But the questioner was good at it. Thank you. That was Question 12 on the agenda. Questions 13 and 14 on the agenda have been deleted, and so we are going to Question 15, and that is to the Minister for the Environment by Mr Seligman. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163748	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister's position on the Commission's proposal to ban hunting and fishing in strictly protected areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163758	Thank you for the question. We are in a global natural crisis, which is why I am also pleased that we, among the Member States of the European Union, have also supported an ambitious EU biodiversity strategy, just as we in Denmark have given a historic boost to our nature with a natural and biodiversity package on the budget law of 888 million. kr. The EU biodiversity strategy includes, inter alia: a target of 30% in the EU. protected areas on land and at sea, one third of which are strictly protected. The Commission's draft guide, which is, of course, what the questioner is asking, must include: contribute to the implementation of the biodiversity strategy and this will be discussed here during 2021. There has been the misunderstanding in the Danish debate that the European Commission wants to ban, for example. hunting and fishing in Danish protected areas. Following the publication of draft guidance, the European Commission has announced that protected nature is not seen as a threat to sustainable hunting. The European Commission may draw up guidelines indicating that certain criteria must be met before the Commission will count an area such as: strictly protected, but it is a Danish decision and Danish legislation that regulates Danish areas. So for all those hunters and fishermen who may be watching and worried on top of the debate here at home, I would say that there is no provision for strictly protected areas to be the same as nature 2000 areas, and I will not go along with that either. It is already the case that we have regulation of hunting and fishing, both inside and outside protected areas, and that is how I believe it should continue to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163942	Egil Hulgaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127163944	Thank you. After all, what has started the debate is precisely the draft to which the Minister refers. In fact, in the phrase that makes people steep, it says that in the strictly protected areas and now I only have it in English: "Extractive activities, such as mining, fishing, hunting, industry, are not compatible with this level of protection. It is proposed that all hunting and recreational fishing should be prohibited in the strictly protected areas. I would like the Minister to confirm that this is not what is going to happen, in other words that in the strictly protected areas fishing and hunting will still be possible in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164037	Well, I think that you have to take things in the right order, and one of the things that has been discussed at home in Denmark has been, first and foremost, that when you saw that guidance, you equated strictly protected areas with Natura 2000 areas. That is what has filled and it has been discussed a great deal. That is why I also spend a little time saying that this equation cannot be put, and I believe that it is important to get that clarification for all the fishermen and hunters from whom I know many rapporteurs have also received e-mails. And then there is the second part, that is to say the nuance, which the Commission has put forward and which I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164115	Sir. Egil Hulgaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164116	But the Minister did not actually reply to what I was asking. In other words, there is a difference between protected areas and strictly protected areas. So is it the view of the Minister that in the strictly protected areas there should be opportunities for hunting and recreational fishing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164133	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164134	Well, I tried to reply, and that is fair enough if the rapporteur wanted a different answer. But what the debate has gone on has been the question of whether strict protection is the same as Natura 2000. And I think we owe it to you to answer that. And I would certainly like to say to those who have been worried about it that that is not what has been proposed. Then there is the question of whether hunting and fishing can be carried out in the strictly protected areas. As I mentioned at the outset, the Commission has also been out to nuance. It is obvious, of course, that we in Denmark need to find out what is up and down in it before we decide what the specific guidance and the draft should end up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164211	Thank you for that, and we will just have to get the alcohol off before we welcome the co-questioner, sir. Marcus Knuth, also the Conservative People's Party. And Mr. Egil Hulgaard can keep the alcohol cloth until he gets back. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164229	Thank you. We are also in favour of recycling in the Conservative People's Party. And thank you to the Minister. In fact, I am very pleased with what the Minister is saying in relation to Natura 2000. Too many of the requests we have received are that we should not equate the two. Then the Minister says that this is something that we have to work out over the next few months, also during this year. There are over 160,000 hunters in Denmark, and I think there are twice as many anglers. It's a huge group. So I want to hear from the Minister whether the minister will embrace as widely as possible in it, let us say review, there is, and the work there is, so that it will not just be in the goose-eyes of the minister or the minister's support parties, but also Denmark's Hunters Association, anglers and of course also us blue parties, including us from the blue bloc, who are also eager hunters and fishermen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164315	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164316	I really think that this is a fine way to finally recognise all the many hunters and fishermen who are in Denmark and who appreciate not only their leisure interest, but also being part of caring for Danish nature. And that's how I actually see it. However, as I also said, there is already regulation, both within and outside protected areas, in relation to both hunting and fishing. It is because you go in and look at how things can go hand in hand and what restrictions should be placed. If the rapporteur himself is a hunter, then we are fully aware that there can be all sorts of restrictions on it, including hunting times and species and everything else. So that is the way we have gone to it in Denmark. In relation to the Commission's specific draft, we ourselves must also learn more about what it really is, and that is why there is now a process with the Member States. A draft has been sent out. I think there are many who have questions about this, including from the Danish side, where among others. This whole hunting or fishing thing isn't drilled. What's really in it? Just to those who could then just want to get a nuance of it, then it has been subsequently announced...
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164428	Thank you! Here you go, Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164430	Thank you. I did not get a full answer from the Minister as to whether the Minister will involve as widely as possible in this work both politically and, of course, with local stakeholders. I hope that the Minister will just confirm this not only in relation to Natura 2000 areas, but also overall in relation to protecting private property. Well, there are many farm owners and hunters etc. After all, Denmark is one of the most advanced countries with biotope plans, so we should actually involve them and ensure that private property is preserved. So just briefly: in communication with the European Union, I also hope that the Minister will propose a change to the wording, which mentions hunting, fishing and mining in the same sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164511	Minister of the Environment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164512	Thank you. It is good to see that there are others who are also struggling to bring everything into the short speaking time we have. If I should just finish my sentence, then the nuance they came with is that protected nature is not seen as a threat to sustainable hunting. I think it's just important to get that. Then there will be a process now that we ourselves need to become wiser, and I am very happy to listen to input. I can say that both hunters and anglers are also very good at making their views known, and that is how I know the Conservative People's Party. So I'd love to listen to points from you, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164545	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth as an enquirer. Okay, I'm gonna have to get a drink. Here you go, sir. Egil Hulgaard for one last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164555	Great. Thank you. I am very pleased that the Minister has come here and has answered some questions in relation to the discussion which is taking place but which is not going on openly enough. And I hope that the future discussion on how the EU biodiversity strategy should be implemented in Danish law and how it should be discussed with stakeholders will be an open discussion which will involve stakeholders and, of course, also the Conservative People's Party. I hope the Minister can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164626	Here you go, the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164627	I do not think that there is any reason to signal that there should be something disguised here. On the basis of the strategy, the Commission has prepared a draft guide. It's been sent around. Everyone's been able to read along with it. I've been able to see that, too. The hunters have done. Then they make a statement in relation to it, and there we try to say: What are the facts; what are the ups and downs? And, of course, we also have to take a political position on that, and there it is certainly very important to stress that it is a Danish
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164705	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. And I'm gonna ask you one more time. Thank you both to the questioner and to the Conservative People's Party co-author. That brings us to the last question in the Chamber today. That is paragraph 16, and the question is to the church minister by Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164727	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164733	Thank you. Will the Minister explain why the Minister has chosen to resign the committee set up by the former bourgeois government to look at how the church can play a role in integrating foreigners into Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164749	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127164751	Thank you very much. Let me start with a clarification. Because as the question seems to require, it seems that the committee was set up to see how the church can play a role in the broad political agenda of integrating foreigners into Danish society. However, as I have had the committee's mandate handed down, it is not entirely correct. The committee's work has been limited to Christian migrants and Christian migrant congregations and the possibility that they might have a more formalised connection with the church, among other things. through the possibility of double membership of the church and his own Christian church. The committee should look at three areas: the possibility of hiring a local priest, the possibility of an association between a Christian migrant congregation and the parish church in the church, the possibility of double membership of the church of the people for individuals such as: is a member of Christian churches in the home country. It is certainly not unlikely that it could also have an integration effect, but it is quite a technical mandate, as I have at least read it. When elections were then held to the Danish Parliament in May 2019, the committee work was normally suspended. We have repeatedly had it up in the discussion between the Ministry and the National Church, for there has been a great desire to get it going. And what I've reported out now is that with the work pressure, which among other things... The corona epidemic lays on a small church ministry with few employees, so it's hard for me to predict when we can get started again. Does this mean that the government will never be prepared to look at it in this assembly? No, it doesn't mean that. I understand why the church continues to ask about this, but I also have to be honest and say that with the time that has passed and with the work pressure under which the ministry is under, it is my opinion that the legislative committee on the people's church and migrant congregations at the moment is, after all, less urgent work in relation to the priorities of both the people's church and other religions' exposed but very urgent position here during the corona epidemic. So it is a lack of the necessary resources that makes me think that I have had to make it clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165003	Thank you. I told the Minister of Culture before, but in this context, of course, it's the church minister. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165010	The Corona epidemic is being blamed for much now; we just have to realize that. This, of course, means in practice that the Christian migrants who come to Denmark do not have the same opportunity to be integrated. So, can the Minister not try to imagine how important it is that the church can stand and accept with open arms, that is, how it will benefit the integration of migrants, how it will benefit their ability to network in Denmark, job opportunities etc., if you implement this? That is the opportunity that the Minister has taken away from them now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165050	I would just like to repeat that I have not done that in any way. I just think that the right thing to say was that with the current working pressure, with the tasks that lie in the Ministry of Churches, among other things. With the corona epidemic, it's hard for me to see when we can take up this work again. But I would also like to make it clear that I do not see it from the premise put forward by the questioner that it is impossible for the people's church to welcome these migrant congregations and other Christian immigrants, so that it should be prevented by the fact that this committee work is not progressing at this stage. There is, of course, every possibility of doing so locally, so that the doors can be opened locally and warmly welcomed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165129	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165130	You can easily put that out locally, but what the committee had to do was look at a more national strategy on how this should be done. And there have been worried voices from the bishops in Denmark who certainly do not agree with the Minister's decision. I read here what the bishop of the Copenhagen Foundation, Peter Skov-Jakobsen, says: The country's bishops are amazed at the church minister's decision. And at the same time he says that the work of the committee is important and necessary if the church is to be able to act as a church in Denmark. Those are strong words. Does the Minister not think that the bishops of the country are right in that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165212	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165212-2	I believe that the bishops and the broad majority who set this committee work in motion in the previous Assembly could see that this was a way of formally establishing links between the church and the migrant congregations. And I fully agree with that, but I am also a minister during a pandemic. I have to be absolutely sure that the first priority for this government is to get Denmark and the church and all other religions well through this virus with as much certainty as possible, with restrictions and everything. This is the first priority, and so I also have to be honest and say: it is difficult for me to see right now that there are resources for this committee as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165256	Thank you for that, Minister of Church. Here you go, Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165258	Does it not affect the fact that the bishops have a vertical disagreement with the minister in the resolution and think, as I quoted, that if the church is to be able to act as a national church in Denmark, it is a work that is important and necessary? Doesn't it affect the Minister that the bishops have that attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165326	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165327	Well, that is also what all my answers bear the hallmark of my total recognition. I certainly hope we can return to this work of the committee, but at this stage, and also with the time that has elapsed, it will probably require us to take it up again, as it were. And we need to know that we have the resources to actually be able to follow it to the end before we take it up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165351	Thank you to the church minister. There are no more questions. And thank you to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. And thank you for just getting drunk. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210127165405	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 28 January 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
