ParlaMint-DK_20210517100005	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100025	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100039	Thank you for that, President. With the motion for a resolution, the proposers want to require the government to establish by 2021 a new type of exit plan which provides real protection for vulnerable citizens, such as: homeless people who are being pressured by gangs to commit crime. The proposers want the new type of exit plan to take into account that the homeless and socially vulnerable cannot be included in the current exit programmes targeted at bikers and gang criminals. The current exits run under the so-called national framework model and are targeted individuals who are registered or have been registered as affiliated with a rocker gang-grouping in Denmark. In addition, persons who are not or have been registered as a gang member but who, on a specific assessment, have or have had an association with the biker and gang environment may be in the target group for an exit. Thus vulnerable homeless people exploited by the environment are not a direct target group for an exit. At the same time, I understand that the proposers are addressing the problem and I am pleased that we share the desire to help particularly vulnerable people such as homeless people, who often live a life from day to day and who are particularly vulnerable to being exploited by the gangs, perhaps because they have an abuse that can cause severe withdrawal, or perhaps because the mental illness is allowed to rage in periods without treatment. I myself visited Odense Municipality to hear about the problem and how they deal with it. Here they stated that there was good cooperation with both the local civil society and the Fyn Police, and that among other things they were: is concerned about how to help vulnerable citizens across the municipal border. Of course, it is quite unacceptable for gangs to push society's weakest to commit crime. As a society, we have a special responsibility to look after them. Having said that, however, the government cannot support the proposal. We cannot do this because the authors of the motion neither indicate nor consider how or in what context the initiative is to be financed. The government has a clear and strong ambition to strengthen its efforts towards the most vulnerable in our society. Today we do not have a safety net that is sufficiently finely masked. Therefore, we are not always good enough to seize the most vulnerable people who, because of drug abuse or mental illness, can be easy victims of the brutal behaviour of criminals. We must strengthen the fight against homelessness, in which, despite good intentions and initiatives, we have more than 650 million. kr. Since 2009 there has been an increase in the number of homeless people. We must and must do something about this, and it requires a significantly different approach from what we have done in the past across changing governments. These are discussions that we will be addressing shortly when the parties behind the reserve are presented with the study on the spread of housing first for which funds were set aside in the reserve agreement for 2020. These are discussions I look forward to, because we have set ourselves the task of doing better in Denmark when it comes to homelessness. At the same time, we in the government are working for better and more coherent help for people with double strain. We must ensure that it is not the exposed themselves who have to adapt to the logic of the system that you first have to be treated for a drug use before you can be cared for and treated for a mental illness • and vice versa • and where too many of the most vulnerable end up as throwing balls and therefore never get the help they need. We must also strengthen the seeking abuse treatment and ensure that people with abuse receive the substitution treatment they need. Psychiatry and social psychiatry have been under pressure for many years, for many people have not received sufficient help with great consequences for their quality of life. We have therefore started work on a 10-year plan for psychiatry, which must end with many years of delay and must set a long-term direction for the area in general. That is why I also welcome it if, in appropriate contexts, the proposers want to give priority to concrete initiatives that improve conditions for the socially vulnerable and that can help solve the problem of vulnerable citizens being pressured by criminal gangs to commit crime. It can, for example, be done. be in the discussions on how to strengthen efforts in one of the areas I have just mentioned, or in the context of discussions on police action against the exploitation of vulnerable citizens by gangs. We on the part of the government, as I said, agree with the intentions behind the proposal, which is why I would also like to invite the proposers to come forward with proposals for concrete solutions and concrete proposals on how to finance one or more initiatives that will put an end to the gangs pushing society's very vaguest to commit crime. Thank you for the floor for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100515	Yes, thank you. There is one question from Mrs Britt Bager. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100518	Yeah, thanks for that. I am, of course, sorry that the government cannot support the proposal. However, I would like to take up the positive point, namely that the Minister also wants to do something in this area. So I just need to hear the Minister: is this the government's proposal that this should be resolved with the housing first negotiations? And what exactly does the Minister see to be done in these situations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100544	Well, thank you for that question, and thank you for your attention. The questioner would also know if she had had the opportunity to talk to some of the actors or to the vulnerable themselves. And that is why there is not one solution that can stand alone. I also think that there are several solutions here that are linked to ensuring better treatment in our psychiatry of these citizens and that they receive better treatment of their abuse so that they are not vulnerable to the extent that they are today in relation to the gangs. Finally, it can be said that this has also been a part of the debate, and perhaps the rapporteur, as a former rapporteur in the field of justice, knows what was being done when the gang package was made in 2017, where there was also an initiative that was about precisely focusing on seeking out and protecting particularly vulnerable people. So it is also relevant to discuss it in this context. However, it is clear that there is of course a need for funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100645	Mrs. Britt Bager.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100646	I fully acknowledge the latter. And I'm actually glad the government's starting to care, so I can only sign for that. In relation to the specific proposal here, I would just like to hear the Minister: could the Minister see an extension of the exit plan? Whether it should be under the authority of the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Social Affairs, I am not so concerned about what kind of box it goes into. I'm preoccupied with helping the homeless people who are being put under this pressure. So what have the Minister actually thought about making an exit plan for the homeless?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100721	I have to say that I do not think it is anything new that the government has begun to take an interest in the fact that things have to be financed. There I think we will hear quite a lot of ministers stand and say in the Chair when we discuss motions for resolutions, namely that the good initiatives and good intentions are very worthwhile, but that funding is also needed. It may have to be in the form of an exit plan. But the reality is that there is more to it and more to it than when we talk about the exit plans that we know from people who are in gangs or biker environments or are closely associated with them, because there is also a need for social action and there is also typically a need to treat psychiatric disorders and drug abuse, etc. So it takes a lot of different things to do, and I'm not sure that the right form is to put it into an exit plan connected to police work. But we will have an opportunity to discuss this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100805	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100807	In the Danish People's Party we look forward to discussing it here, because we actually think that this proposal is a very good proposal, so I want to hear the Minister when the Minister convenes these negotiations. The minister talks a lot about housing first, but we also know that it doesn't work very well in all municipalities. That is why I would like to hear: when is the Minister calling and will it be negotiated under what is called the reserve? The challenge is often when we talk about social policy, all these silos. And now the minister himself is talking about the territory of the Ministry of Justice and the psychiatry. So how do we avoid this silo thinking and get a unified plan for the benefit of some of the most vulnerable citizens in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100856	Thank you. In relation to the very specific citizens, and that is what I could hear when I was in Odense, it is true that you are very close to them and that you know them so that you can help the specific citizen, because it is some vulnerable citizens who have complex problems and, moreover, they are not the same for all citizens. Some will have networks in some places in the country, others will have no network, and that way I think it should be some very handheld solutions that need to be made. Under the auspices of the 2017 gang package, there were initiatives. I also believe that part of the solution here lies in a better psychiatry for the most vulnerable, and part of the solution lies in the negotiations we must have under the auspices of the reserve on the funds we have set aside there, in other words the cover we have ordered from housing first. The cover is finished so you can be called, and you will also be summoned by me for a meeting here before the summer break, where we will have the results of it presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100948	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517100949	So I understand that the Minister is calling a meeting before the summer break in relation to having it presented here and subsequently also after the summer break, so that we can have a comprehensive plan. But in the intervening period will the Minister make representations to the Minister for Justice and to the Minister for Health in order to ensure that we avoid silo thinking here? Because there are many resort ministries across when it comes to vulnerable citizens, and we should of course ensure that they receive proper help from the start. So will the Minister make representations to his colleagues in the Council to ensure that we have comprehensive assistance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517101024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517101025	Thank you. After all, there are already some opportunities to help the vulnerable citizens we are talking about here. My ministry participates in the gang council, which is under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice, where Odense, Aarhus and Copenhagen also sit together with others. The National Police, the KL, relevant police circles and other ministries, and here we have already addressed the issue so it has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517101044	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more questions. After once we have desprited, we move on to the rapporteur's line and the first is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517101112	Thank you for the floor, sir. President, and thank the proposers for showing great sympathy for the most vulnerable citizens in society by choosing them. Social democracy supports the intention behind the proposal, because it is quite unacceptable that the very vaguest in society should be pressured to commit crime or be subjected to violence and threats of gangs and criminals. As a society, we have a special responsibility to look after the socially vulnerable citizens who, in several respects, lead a vulnerable life. If we are to understand the authors correctly, the proposal contains the idea of an exit plan to provide protection for vulnerable citizens and to help them move on and out of the grip of the gangs. However, the proposal does not address how an exit plan should be able to help the vulnerable citizens, except for a good example, which is an initiative called "Project Husvild', which helps vulnerable citizens under pressure from the gangs to move to other parts of the country. However, I am concerned about the very thing about moving vulnerable citizens from their environment. They already live a hard life, and they only get through it because they have a very sparing network and a community on the street. It is incredibly demanding to push oneself up with mess and even more if one is already rootless. These are therefore proposals that deal with the symptoms rather than the causes, and there is something unfair about the fact that it is the victims who have to be moved, and that should not be the case. The proposers also point out that it is important for vulnerable citizens not only to be placed in shelters in another city, so that they need help to emerge from any abuse and through the psychiatric challenges that vulnerable citizens may have. The government is already working to strengthen the conditions of society's weakest, who often have mental illness and also abuse. This makes them particularly vulnerable to gangs. One example is the work on combating homelessness in the principles of housing first, which the Social Affairs Committee also saw in Finland. Together with the government, the Danish Parliament's parties in the agreement on the execution of the reserve in both 2020 and 2021 have given priority to addressing particularly vulnerable and vulnerable citizens. It is also important to say that this is an extremely complicated issue. These are alcohol abuse, drug abuse, psychiatric disorders and a childhood that has made one particularly vulnerable. We therefore need to see things in a global perspective, and it is important that we look at these things in order for the approach to be effective. In our view, this proposal brings nothing further to the table, nor has funding been pointed out for how we help vulnerable citizens. I am pleased that the Minister has pointed out that we must have a debate before the summer holidays and that we as a committee have also seen that we have to work on a homeless effort. As the proposal stands here, we cannot support the proposal. I would also like to mention that we support this intention, because it is unacceptable to be pressured by gangs when you are one of the most vulnerable in society. Then I would also like to say to the note and to the record that I should like to welcome from the Enhedslisten, which unfortunately could not be here today, and say that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517101445	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then we give the floor to Mrs Marie Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517101513	Thank you for the floor, President, and especially thank you to the Conservative People's Party for highlighting the fact that some of our most vulnerable citizens and homeless people need protection from gangs who are pushing them to commit crime. The most vulnerable and homeless citizens in Denmark today live a hard life on the streets. They do so because they must live with a constant fear of their lives and of their safety. They don't have a door to close behind or a hot bed to lie in, they only have themselves and the street. It's a tough life, and criminal gangs certainly don't make it any easier. Violence, threats and economic blackmail are some of the best practices used by gang criminals against our most vulnerable citizens and homeless people. Unfortunately, it is everyday that our vulnerable and homeless citizens are forced to sell drugs and they are threatened with life and limb if they refuse. The worst is in Odense, where almost one in five vulnerable citizens have felt threatened by gang members. In several places this has resulted in vulnerable and homeless citizens ending up in a vicious spiral of debt to the gangs, which they have not even sought out themselves. We simply do not think we can turn a blind eye to this. The resolution here is about establishing a new type of exit plan to protect vulnerable citizens who are being pressured by gangs to commit crime. The motion for a resolution calls for the exit plan to include a follow-up programme to help vulnerable and homeless citizens out of possible abuses, focusing on creating personal development for the individual citizen. In addition, the proposers propose that witness protection be possible so that citizens can feel safe when giving evidence. Finally, the proposers stress that the exit plan should allow citizens to make a real start so that they can put behind them all the problematic parts of their old lives. In the Left, we fully agree that there is a need for a new exit plan for vulnerable and homeless citizens who are being pressured by gangs to commit crime. We cannot tolerate vulnerable and homeless citizens in this way being harassed and subjected to violence and threats on the lives of gangs that they have not themselves sought out. In the Left, it is our fundamental view that we as a society have a responsibility to extend the necessary help and support to those citizens who are most at risk. We have a special obligation to the very weakest so that they can have the right help and real opportunity to improve their lives. Left and then government helped put an end to gang crime with the three gang packages. Together, they have resulted in increased penalties for a number of serious crimes such as serious violence, witness threats and violations of the arms law, as well as increased penalties for systematic or organised blackmail. Unfortunately, it is just that criminal gang members are inventive creatures, and it has turned out that they are now also exploiting vulnerable and homeless citizens to continue their criminal deeds. It is a constantly tough environment, which means that vulnerable and homeless and abusers remain victims in the gang environment, because gang criminals are precisely at the forefront of the illegal drug market. We should not accept that. That is why we in the Left also think that this resolution is a good one, because it must provide an opportunity for the vulnerable and homeless, who are being pushed by the gangs, to have a real new opportunity for a new start to life. We note, however, that the proposal does not relate to funding and, as an economically responsible party, I have to note it, because here we in the Left would like to make a positive contribution to finding that funding, and, for example, one could imagine that it could be a pilot project over the SSA reserve, but we are also open to other proposals. Against this background, we in the Left can support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517101917	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517101943	Thank you for that and also thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. I just want to say a greeting to our colleague Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. I hope she'll be back on the platform soon. This proposal is about establishing a new type of exit plan which provides real protection for vulnerable citizens, such as: homeless people who are being pressured by gangs to commit crime. The new type of exit plan must take into account that the homeless and socially vulnerable cannot be included in exit programmes targeted at general citizens. It must be a real exit where it is possible for the exposed citizen to put all the troubled parts of his old life behind him. Among other things, it has to be done. is done by helping to get out of possible abuse and through the psychological challenges that can also be. Of course, good and massive support to get away from the blackmail of the gangs must be accompanied by a number of tools that can also help to create personal development for the individual vulnerable and vulnerable citizen. It must also be possible to have witness protection so that you can feel safe and secure when helping the Danish legal system by testifying against the gangs. Moreover, it is also important for citizens to have the opportunity for a real new start and not just to be placed in shelters around and in another city. Unfortunately, we have seen how many vulnerable citizens, including homeless people, are being pressured and blackmailed in different ways. It can, for example, be done. In this context, it is also necessary to take account of the fact that the drugs are being seized by the police and that they are being forced by the gangs into the sale of drugs and, in this context, also claims for damages in the event of losses. It also brings extra stupid fines. It can therefore lead citizens to end up in a vicious spiral of debt compared to the gangs that they have not sought out themselves. In the most glaring examples we have read about, the gangs have actually committed violence against the homeless and other vulnerable citizens and, in some cases, also taken over the victims' apartments from which they have sold drugs. You can read about this on DR: Troubles from gangs flare up again: Five homeless people have gone underground, which is from 12 July 2020. As a society, we must not allow vulnerable citizens to be pressured and subjected to violence and threats by the gangs. We must do all we can to stop this from being done by the Folketing. In Denmark, it must be law and order that applies, and the exploitation of vulnerable citizens by gangs is totally unacceptable. We need to use all the methods we can to stop the gangs, and this proposal can contribute positively to the overall objective of stress and the pursuit of criminal gangs. An example of an initiative that has shown some potential in helping vulnerable citizens is Project Husvild. The organization is helping vulnerable citizens who have been pressured by the gangs to move to other parts of the country, far away from the ravages of the gangs. The exposed can go underground and start over with their lives. However, it should not be the vulnerable citizens who have to go underground for fear of reprisals, and that is why it is so important that we take a fight with the gangs. In the Danish People's Party, we fully agree that we must put an end to this cowardly exploitation of our most vulnerable and vulnerable citizens. And action is needed now, and an exit plan to protect these citizens is also needed now. So we warmly support the intentions of this proposal, and we look forward to the forthcoming negotiations, and then, as I mentioned earlier in my question to the Minister, I hope that we can take a fight with silo thinking and think across where it is both about the Resort of the Ministry of Justice, but also the Resort of the Ministry of Health and, of course, not least the Resort of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Elderly. So I hope that we can find some good solutions together so that we can stop this for the benefit of some of the most vulnerable and vulnerable citizens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517102353	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517102406	Thank you. When I visited Odense last year with others. The Minister for Social Affairs, I heard many terrible stories about how socially exposed people were subjected to violence, stupid fines and forced to sell drugs to gang criminals. It is problematic and unreasonable for gang criminals to take advantage of the vulnerable position of the socially vulnerable. We heard about how Odense tries to create a social exit programme, just as we know it in the social and criminal field targeted those who want to leave prostitution or rocker and gang environments. The aim of the social exit programme is to give the socially vulnerable the opportunity for a new start if their lives are marked by violence, threats and blackmail from the gang criminal environment. I would therefore also like to thank the Conservative People's Party for presenting this resolution, which is very well in line with the wishes of Odense. This is a good proposal, because it is not fair that vulnerable citizens are pressured by gangs to commit crime and that it is not possible for the municipality to refer the citizen to a residence in another municipality. The resolution proposes the creation of an exit plan and protection for vulnerable citizens so that they are not forced by the gang environment. It must be a real exit where it is possible for vulnerable citizens to put their old lives away. It is clear from the motion for a resolution that this must be done by helping to emerge from possible abuse and by focusing on the psychological challenges that vulnerable citizens can face. Tools that create personal development for the individual exposed citizen; witness protection so that they exposed dare witness against the gang members in court; and generally allow for a new real start, we in the SF agree. What is important is that we put in place an effort that is comprehensive and that helps the vulnerable citizen out of that environment. In the SF, therefore, we also want the social exit programmes, or whatever we choose to call them, to include employment and social efforts and help to get a new residence, even in a municipality other than the one we come from, if necessary. Some vulnerable people are subsequently persecuted by the gang members, and it is difficult to remedy when the municipalities do not have the opportunity to search for a residence in a municipality other than the home municipality. In the SF we are in favour of the proposal and look forward to discussing in committee what other efforts should also be included in a social exit programme other than those included in this motion for a resolution. I therefore hope that we can also meet on a report, including where we can find funding for the proposal, which we in the SF think is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517102657	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. We welcome the next rapporteur. It's sir. Henrik Vinther, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517102716	Thank you, President. Bands and other criminal groups are experts in exploiting the weakness of other people, and therefore socially vulnerable • it is the case of homeless people, abusers and people who are otherwise at the edge of society, and also vulnerable children and young people • it is easy and preferred victims of the gangs. That is why we are in favour of the proposal that the Conservative People's Party is putting forward here and I hope that the party will take it in the autumn's financial law negotiations so that it can be included in the overall priorities and that together we can learn more about how we can go to the challenge. These are social issues. It can be mental illness, it can be housing, and of course it can be crime, employment and health problems. If it is possible to get it into the reserve negotiations, let us look at it and otherwise I look forward to discussing the idea in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517102806	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, who was next, is not here. So we go to Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517102837	Homeless Danes are some of the most vulnerable. We need to take care of them and watch them. We must act when they are subjected to violence by foreign homeless people. We must be ready with help and support when they are pushed into crime by unscrupulous gangs. In New Citizens we want to solve the problems from scratch. We want to link the right to live in freedom to Danish citizenship. For foreign homeless people do not belong in Denmark, but Danish homeless people must of course help better than we do today. No Danes should involuntarily live on the street, so we must ensure a coordinated effort with accommodation in a housing as a priority. A home must be provided, as well as help and support, if that is what you want. And you have to be able to use a shelter if that's what you want. But if, as a Dane, you want to live peacefully and properly on the street, you must be allowed to do so, even if you gather in smaller groups for social security and warmth. One should not fear being removed by the police or being attacked by foreign homeless people. We have a long tradition of being spacious to Danes who are and live differently. We must continue to do so. And we should not allow foreigners to destroy our inclusive and trust-based society, even when gangs offend the most vulnerable in our society by cynically exploiting their vulnerable status for their own gain. of the population per head of population per head of population per head of population per head of population per head of population per head of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population New citizens will ensure that criminal aliens are deported consistently and after the first sentence. And then those who are granted citizenship by law and then receive an unconditional sentence of liberty must be denied their Danish nationality by judgment and deported. They should not be subjected to violence by either foreign homeless or gang members. That is why we are happy to support this proposal as a start, but we would like to go further. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517103102	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next are the Liberal Alliance, which is not present, and the Christian Democrats are not present either. Then it is the rapporteur of the proposers, Mrs Britt Bager, the Conservative People's Party, who is at least present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517103123	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the parties that have supported this important proposal. We believe that we have a duty to help those citizens who are already in a difficult situation. This situation should not be made more difficult by pressure from cynical gangs. When my talented colleague Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel has made this proposal, it is because, through 2020, several media have uncovered how many vulnerable citizens, including homeless people, are being blackmailed by gangs in different ways. It can, for example, be done. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done in this area. The vulnerable citizens often end up in a vicious spiral of debt to the gangs, and they have not sought it out themselves, nor have they the opportunity to get out of it. In some of the worst examples, gangs have actually resorted to violence against homeless people and other vulnerable citizens, and in some cases they have taken over the apartments of the victims from which they have sold drugs. We do not believe that, in a society of law such as the Danish one, we should tolerate gangs pushing citizens into vulnerable positions to commit serious crime. We must try to put an end to this, and here we believe that a new type of exit plan actually offers real protection to the most vulnerable citizens. We want to give those exposed this new type of exit plan, where they get a protection, which they need, which allows them to get far away from the gangs. There's room for, uh... to tackle the psychological challenges that several rapporteurs have also mentioned today as a basis for their challenges. I am listening to the fact that we can hopefully land this on a sensible report where we all, or at least most of us, are committed to finding a solution in the course of the autumn. Whether it's in the SSA reserve or whether it's in Housing First, we're not interested in it. We're preoccupied with solving this problem, so we're gonna help the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517103347	There are no brief comments. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517103421	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517103431	Thank you for that, President. I'm gonna have to get the talking desk back down. You're relatively tall, Mrs. Britt Bager. I hadn't thought about that. Or maybe I'm the one who's relatively low if we're gonna be honest. In B 238, it is proposed that the government should submit by the end of 2021 a draft law on the incorporation of the UN Disability Convention into Danish law. The motion for a resolution seeks to ensure a greater obligation to take account of the rights of people with disabilities and to clarify their ability to invoke the Convention independently and independently in the courts. It also wants to send a positive signal both nationally and internationally that Denmark will strengthen the rights of people with disabilities on an equal footing with other Western countries. Finally, it is emphasised that Danish incorporation will have great national and international importance, as people with disabilities continue to be oppressed in many countries and struggle to be heard and have their rights respected. It is almost 12 years since Denmark, with the ratification of the Disability Convention, confirmed the fundamental rights of people with disabilities. A strong signal was sent nationally and internationally that Denmark will actively protect and promote these rights. The signal was only sealed with the accession of the SR government to the optional protocol on redress to the UN Disability Committee in 2014. Now we write 2021, and what do we see if we take stock of the rights of people with disabilities in Denmark? Progress has been made: the ban on discrimination outside the labour market due to disability entered into force in 2018; the right to fair individualisation in daily offers, the primary school, free schools and private primary schools was introduced earlier this year; and last month a majority in the Folketing increased the penalty for hate crimes against people with disabilities. However, we are not in the finish line. In Denmark, people with disabilities do not always receive the necessary support to live the life they want. A large group of people with disabilities are outside the labour market. Years of problems in the specialized social area have left too many without the help and support of our community. This has contributed to a lack of confidence and concern for legal certainty in this area. It must be possible to live as normal a life as possible with a disability regardless of residence, and no matter which family you were born into. But today, too many people experience it as a struggle to get the right specialized help. This is due, among other things, to the loss of knowledge which the municipal reform brought back in 2007 and which the organisations in the field of disability feared at the time. Together with the contract paper parties, that is, our support parties, we set a new direction for Denmark after the elections; a fairer direction to ensure that people with disabilities can get the help they need to participate in the community and realise their dreams. With what our objective is, then, the question: why do we not allow the incorporation of the disability convention to be one of the steps that will ensure this direction? The Disability Convention contains a wide range of good principles that we are already formulating today in our policy on disability: the principle of equal treatment, because everyone must have equal opportunities to realise their dreams and potentials; the principle of compensation, because we must help children, young people and adults to overcome the barriers that prevent them from participating in society on an equal footing with everyone else; the principle of sectoral responsibility, because we must jointly lift and ensure that all offers across sectors are available to people with disabilities; and not least the principle of solidarity, because help and support should not depend on the individual's income. At the same time, we constantly assess whether all new legislation is in line with Denmark's international obligations, including the obligations of the Disability Convention. In their comments on the motion for a resolution, the authors refer to the 2014 report of the Committee on Human Rights. Here the committee pointed out that there could be a risk of transferring powers from Parliament and government to the courts and other public authorities by incorporating international conventions. The risk lies in the fact that, among other things, The disability convention contains a number of vague and general provisions which are not suitable to be applied directly in the handling of cases before the courts and the authorities. At the same time, incorporation creates a stronger basis for interpreting the Disability Convention in the light of the practice of the UN Disability Committee. Despite this, the Committee recommended the incorporation of, inter alia: The disability convention. However, the Committee noted that the Disability Convention was the most recent international convention ratified by Denmark and that the practice of the UN Disability Committee was sparing. The Committee is set up by the Convention and its 18 members from all over the world have the task of interpreting the application of the Convention in the Member States; members who do not necessarily have a greater insight into the construction of our political system and Danish welfare societies. Back in 2014, the Committee had only adopted two general observations on the understanding of Article 12 of the Convention on Equality before the Law and Article 9 on Availability. The number is now seven in total, and the number of statements in complaints for citizens has also increased from 6 in 2014 to 18 here in 2021. What does the committee's practice show us? Practice shows, among other things, that the risk of a shift of power from the Folketing to the courts is real. A good example of this is a case against Denmark from 2018. The Committee found that the Danish authorities' refusal to reunite families represented indirect discrimination against people with disabilities. The Supreme Court had given a ruling in the case before which it was found that, by refusing family reunification, complaints had not been discriminated against in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights or the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Government thus disagreed with the Committee's application of the Convention. The policy adopted jointly by the Folketing and the government is a national matter. The inclusion of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities must not be allowed to upset that. Denmark must be vigilant about international conventions and we must respect them at all times. We must continue to make the principles and rights of the disability convention one of the cornerstones of Danish disability policy. We have to do that right until the goal is achieved and we all have it. As part of this work, the government launched last year together with the Radical Left, SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative evaluation of the specialized social area. The evaluation must provide us with the in-depth knowledge needed to better shape the area and ensure that there are the right offers and efforts of the right specialisation and quality, which correspond to the needs of citizens, and which help young people and children and adults with disabilities to have the best opportunities to live an independent and meaningful life on their own terms. The incorporation of international conventions is not something we are committed to or have a tradition of doing. As a citizen, conventions can already be invoked directly in the courts or other authorities. An incorporation won't change that. At the same time, we must ensure that Danish policy remains a policy adopted in this Chamber alone. The government therefore supports the intentions behind the proposal, but we cannot support the proposal itself. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104150	Thank you. There are a few questions, and the first is from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104155	Thank you for the Minister's speech, where the Minister most of all highlights what was the minority's opinions in the 2014 report of the Committee on Integration. I think it would have been right also to have remembered to highlight what was the majority's comments, namely the long series of passages on the benefits that would be of incorporating the disability convention into Danish law. It was, in particular, the Disability Convention and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, with which the majority would emphasise it would be a good idea. In addition, I would also like to point out that in a conciliation meeting on 11 February of the year 1 hour, 49 minutes and 50 seconds in the conciliation procedure, the Minister says and I quote: I will assume that we comply with the Disability Convention and fulfil that responsibility at all times. Would it not then be natural to incorporate the Disability Convention into Danish law, and are there any articles in the Convention that the Minister or the Government disagrees with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104257	Thank you. I just think, in order to be quite right, that in my speech here I also mentioned what was the recommendation of the majority. But don't let it separate us. It is, of course, the case that Denmark must comply with all its international obligations at all times. When it comes to the disability convention, and the status is, of course, that we ratified the disability convention in July 2009, and before that it was considered that it was not assumed that we would amend Danish legislation at that time, so that it was established that there was what is called, in legal terms, the norm harmony between disability requirements for the state and Danish legislation. After all, it has had the consequence that new legislation, which falls within the scope of the Convention, must be assessed in relation to the requirements of the Convention and that new legislation must comply with the requirements of the Convention, and we have, of course, committed ourselves to that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104355	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104356	We have among other things. recently seen that the Institute of Human Rights has revealed that five out of six Danish transport companies do not help people with disabilities on board their regular buses, and we can see that in France the convention is directly applicable and that it is incorporated into the legislation of Germany. Wouldn't it be wise for Denmark to be at least at odds with countries we compare with when it comes to boasting about the rights of people with disabilities, why it would be natural to incorporate this? And are there any of the articles of the Convention that the Minister disagrees with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104435-2	Thank you. International conventions, which we have ratified in Denmark, can be invoked in Danish courts without being implemented by law. That is not the case everywhere. I know that the proposal talks about other countries and how they have done so, and now that a so-called convention law has been adopted in Germany, it is because it is not so. If this had not been done, it would not be possible to invoke the Convention before the German courts, so there are some differences here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104510	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104510-2	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we have made a great many proposals to strengthen legal certainty in this area in relation to people with disabilities. There are, of course, a number of challenges, so I would like to hear from the Minister when she calls the Folketing for negotiations to strengthen legal certainty in the field of disability. And I would also like to know whether the Minister believes that the service law we have today is being undermined by the municipalities on the basis of service standards and quality standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104547	I do not know whether it is I who do not have a link with the resolution we are debating right now in any of the questions put by the questioner at all. After all, the broad debate on legal certainty has been ongoing, and this is important for the government. We have among other things. A number of initiatives have been taken together with our Finance Bill parties in order to lift legal certainty and discuss it on an ongoing basis with the Danish Parliament's parties. And the whole discussion about municipal autonomy, quality standards, what might be called postcode lottery, is something we are discussing on a regular basis. I think that as recently as last week, perhaps last week, there was also a consultation on this. But in relation to the link to the resolution here, the questioner simply has to take the floor again and make it for me, because I do not see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104637	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104638	The minister doesn't have to be able to see it either. I think this is so much about legal certainty. There are more in the Folketing who want to improve legal certainty for people with disabilities, and then there are more ways to go. Nor does the Danish People's Party want this resolution to be the way forward. Therefore, it is relevant to ask whether the Minister will call for wide-ranging negotiations in the Folketing on strengthening legal certainty, including the Minister's position, as to whether the Minister believes that the Service Act is being undermined in relation to quality standards and service standards in the municipalities in relation to the intentions we have in Danish legislation in relation to the Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104724-2	Well, there is no doubt that a citizen needs the help a citizen needs, and the methods must be in order and within the framework of the Services Act. After all, we have discussed this in a wide range of specific cases. Most recently, the government examined the use by the municipalities of the so-called austerity consultants, no cure, no pay consultants, and made it clear that it cannot be applied. In this way, we have a lot of ongoing discussions on legal certainty, and initiatives are also being launched, and these are certainly things that will then continue on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104757	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more questions. We move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur to be brought up here is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517104822	Thank you for the floor. And I would like to thank the Radicals for bringing up an important and important issue, namely the disability area, an area that has seen great challenges and where we have heard stories time and again that people are not being treated properly, and that is simply not okay. The motion for a resolution is about incorporating the UN Disability Convention into Danish law and I just want to say as one who lives with someone with a reading disability that such a word is exceptionally difficult to say, among other things. to ensure a greater commitment to take account of people with disabilities' rights. The main objective of the Disability Convention is, and I quote, to promote and protect and ensure the possibility that all people with disabilities can fully enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms on an equal footing with others, as well as to promote respect for their natural dignity. ▪ It is a purpose that the Social Democratic Party supports 100%. We must protect and safeguard the rights of people with disabilities at all times. And in order to guarantee these rights, it is also important that we, as a society, ensure that people with both physical and mental disabilities have the opportunity to unfold their full potential. We must therefore remove the barriers that exist in order to live an active life and to pursue education and to have as normal and independent a life in the labour market as possible. I also know that all of us in this Chamber are very concerned about different joints and edges. Only on Monday, for example, together with the authors of the motions, the Radicals, and a large number of the Danish Parliament's parties, we made an agreement to translate 29 million. kr. to improve efforts for inmates and students with physical and cognitive difficulties. To be able to work, to be able to train, to be able to live an active and meaningful life, I believe to be fundamental rights and therefore something that we must, of course, work for, and we must also ensure that people with disabilities' rights are included. We can see, as the Minister also mentions, that too many people do not get an education or get a job and that the number of people with disabilities who are active in the labour market is too small. It is terrible that many other countries continue to struggle with people with disabilities having proper rights and having the right to an independent life, the right to express themselves, the right to education, the right to health and the right to work and employment. Fortunately, it is the case in Denmark that we are committed to protecting people with disabilities and guaranteeing their rights in accordance with the disability convention. It is also possible to invoke the Convention in the courts and in cases before other public authorities and, in this context, the Social Democratic Party does not see it as necessary to incorporate the Disability Convention, as the authors describe it here. In addition to this, as our Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly also mentioned, there are a large number of political and practical and economic challenges by incorporating the Convention into Danish law. We do not support the motion for a resolution. Finally, however, I would like to emphasise that Denmark is committed to protecting people with disabilities and safeguarding their rights. And as we have also worked very hard on, it should not be a struggle to get the help that you need. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, there are challenges in the area of disability. There are challenges with people with physical and mental disabilities not always experiencing the help and support they need. We need to look at what it is that does not give those people that support in relation to those needs, and that is why we have also followed the whole study on the specialized social area closely and are also looking forward to looking at what sort of disability we need to change. That is why it is also the government's focus in the future to create effective solutions, and of course we support this in the Social Democracy 100 percent, because having a disability should not limit one to being able to live an active life, to be able to train and get a job. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105236	There is a question from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105239	Thank you. I would like to start by asking a question which was a little difficult to get an answer to from the Minister before, namely: Are there any articles of the UN Convention on Disabilities that are clearly referred to as articles rather than clauses when it is conventions that the Socialists disagree with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105301	First of all, thank you for the rapporteur's thinking that I can reply to that. I believe that the premise is basically about whether we believe that the convention should be incorporated into the law. And I think the Minister has explained very well that there are a number of challenges that make us unable to support it. I also know that the rapporteur is very concerned about working for people with disabilities, and I very much appreciate that. But we do not think that the right way to do this. At the same time, one can also invoke the right to have it tested if one finds that one does not get the equality that is needed. That is why we find that these are two different things. So we do not believe that the convention should be incorporated. We believe that Danish legislation is well covered in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105348	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105349	Then I must assume that there is nothing in the Disability Convention that the Socialist Group disagrees with. And that's gratifying, because that's how far we are. That is why it would be reasonable to ask: why not make it easier for more people to be able to invoke the rights of the UN Convention on Disability and, as the Socialists seem to agree, at least they have not been said to disagree with any of them? Is it really practically difficult to grant more rights to people with disabilities when the Socialists agree with everything that applies to the disability convention?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105424	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we believe that these are two different things. In fact, I think it is quite essential that we discuss what the fundamental challenges are, in that we can see that people with disabilities do not have such a high level of employment that we do not go into the dream study, we would like to say that there are some limitations and that we are not supported in our lives. We have seen a great many examples of the fact that we have not received the support in childhood, which means that we actually have the tools to move forward. We do not believe that what the proposers are suggesting is the way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105459	There are no more questions, and we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105522	Thank you. Thank you to the Radical Left for focusing on people with disabilities and their rights. The protection of people with disabilities and their rights is an important matter for the Left. The Left wants to be diverse societies where there is room to be who you are and a society where you can contribute with your skills and competences, even if you have a disability. It is therefore essential that we protect people with disabilities and their rights. The motion for a resolution here concerns the incorporation of the UN Convention on Disability into Danish law. The main reason for this resolution is that it will ensure a greater obligation to clarify the possibility for citizens to invoke the conventions in the courts. In addition, the resolution also points out that full incorporation will send a positive signal that Denmark will strengthen the rights of people with disabilities on an equal footing with other Western countries. Finally, the motion for a resolution points out that incorporation will have a great symbolic significance at national and international level, because people with disabilities and their rights are unfortunately still being suppressed. The Left agrees that it is necessary to strengthen the rights of people with disabilities. We are because the Left has a desire that as many people as possible with disabilities should become an active part of the community and that they should have equal opportunities to take an education or to maintain links with the labour market. The Left takes people with disabilities and their rights very seriously, because it is of no use to talk about equal treatment for all people if we cannot also ensure that we protect people with disabilities in accordance with the law and the provisions of the Convention on Disability. With that said, however, the Left is sceptical about the incorporation of the Disability Convention. We are concerned that full incorporation into Danish law will lead to more disadvantages than there will be benefits. We are already under an obligation to protect people with disabilities and their rights in accordance with the provisions of the Disability Convention. The incorporation of the Disability Convention will not change that. Furthermore, it is already possible to invoke the Disability Convention before the courts and other judicial authorities, and the incorporation of the Disability Convention will not change that either. In the Left, we are concerned that full incorporation into the Convention in Danish law will bring the disadvantages and risks which, among other things, will arise. The Committee on Human Rights in 2014 highlighted with their report on inclusion in the area of human rights, and as the Minister has also mentioned in his speech. The Committee points out that the UN Convention on Disabilities contains a number of provisions which are vague and generally formulated, making the provisions less suitable to be incorporated, and this would mean that there is a risk that incorporation into the Convention on Disabilities into Danish law will lead to a shift of power from the Folketing to the courts in relation to issues which, according to Danish legal tradition, are the responsibility of the legislature. This may be quite problematic, because there will then be a risk that some of the powers of the Danish Parliament will be transferred to the Danish courts and to other judicial authorities, where we do not have the democratic debate that we have in here and which do not necessarily have the full overview of general political and economic considerations. Against this background, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105906	There is a question from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517105909	I was very pleased with what the rapporteur started by saying in his speech, namely that it is crucial for the Left to protect the rights of people with disabilities, and I was also somewhat positive at the beginning when the rapporteur said that the rapporteur was very sceptical about the proposal. Because then I thought it might be possible to work on something so that we could end up in the right place anyway. Finally, however, the rapporteur says that the proposal cannot be supported at all. That is why I would just like to know if the rapporteur could imagine that there was something in this proposal that could be changed so that the Left was positive about it. I also believe that the rapporteur is aware of the fact that a majority in the Committee on Integration in 2014 recommends that the disability convention be incorporated into Danish law, because there is a particular suitability in relation to that part. So is there something that could be done so that the Left could be involved in what the rapporteur actually started talking about is absolutely crucial, namely to protect people with disabilities' rights? Could we file a little on this so we could get the Left's support?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110014	We understand the intentions of this proposal and there is now the rapporteur asking whether we can somehow land it so that the Left can support incorporation. I find it hard to imagine that you can incorporate something halfway. Either you incorporate well, or you don't incorporate. There we are simply concerned about the points made in the Committee on Human Rights. So, immediately, it is difficult to see where we can land it in a sensible way, so that there is no risk of the disadvantages that the Committee on Human Rights has just raised. But we understand the intention of tabling this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110057	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110057-2	I do not understand why the rapporteur refers, on the one hand, to the Committee on Integration as being the reason why it is being shot down here by the Left, when, on the other hand, there is a majority of them in the Committee on Integration, which says about the Convention on Disability, which recommends that they be incorporated into Danish law. Does the rapporteur not think it would be sensible to listen to the wise people who have formulated this? And what is it when you look at the majority of those who submit reports that make it seem from the Left that there are suddenly more disadvantages than there will be benefits in giving people with disabilities more rights in Danish legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110140	After all, only 6 of the 15 Members were in favour of incorporating the disability convention. At the same time, a wide range of disadvantages were identified. The main disadvantage is, of course, the fact that we are shifting power from the Folketing to the courts, which means that we do not have this democratic process. That is what makes it impossible for us to support the proposal, and it cannot support the inclusion of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110204	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions, and we need to get some despriting off the desk. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110232	Thank you for that, President. This proposal deals with the incorporation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into Danish law, an issue which is often raised in different contexts and which has also been assessed in the past by the committee set up, which pointed out that the Convention contains a number of provisions that are vague and also generally formulated, which also makes it difficult to incorporate the provisions because they are less suitable. And that may be an argument against full incorporation, since such provisions risk being left to the courts to take decisions which are traditionally the responsibility of the Folketing and the government. I believe that we in the Folketing should decide what action we want in our legislation, and in the Danish People's Party we are generally not in favour of conventions, as we believe that it is here in the Folketing that we have a responsibility to ensure good legislation and make decisions. In the Danish People's Party we would like to make legislation here in the Danish Parliament on better legal certainty in the field of disability, and we have just made several proposals for this, which have not received the support of 90 mandates. In the Danish People's Party, we want to introduce a right for citizens with disabilities for simple and quick processing, and also for the re-allocation of aids and disabled cars in cases where the citizen's ability and needs are unchanged. The simple and rapid handling of cases must be ensured through the use of declarations of faith and laws, something that we have discussed several times here in Parliament, and this will also result in resource savings for the municipality and ensure better and more dignified treatment for people with disabilities and strengthen legal certainty. We in the Danish People's Party are also quite ready to act now, and we do not have to wait for a cover-up of the specialised area to ensure legal certainty for people with disabilities. If there was a will from the parties of the Folketing, there could already be action on important points. Unfortunately, there has not been much will from all parties to correct legal certainty. In the Danish People's Party we have made several proposals. We could extend the clauses for suspensive effect, so that we could not suddenly be deprived of our help, we could put an end to the municipalities undermining the intentions of the Service Act. It would also be of great benefit to the citizens • and we could ensure holistic efforts across sectors. Unfortunately, our proposal for a legal protection fund was also shot down in the Parliamentary Chamber, and so did our proposal for compensation for citizens who have been mistreated in the social system. One of the arguments put forward by the proposers is that full incorporation sends a positive signal that Denmark will strengthen the rights of people with disabilities on an equal footing with other Western countries. In the Danish People's Party we are quite clear about strengthening legal certainty for people with disabilities, but not on the basis of a convention, but because we want the Danish Parliament to ensure this and at the same time ensure that the laws of the country are observed and followed, and we have a number of proposals on how to do so, and many of these we have also put forward in the Parliamentary Chamber. So, on this basis, we cannot support the proposal. I've had a correspondence with the proposer in the past, sir. Kristian Hegaard, about being able to make a joint report in committee to ensure this area a strengthened legal certainty, because I think we have some of the same intentions. However, we have not made any progress on this, and this is also about the fact that, as a support party, we must be prepared to ensure that there is a majority that can address the legal challenges facing disabled people. That is why we cannot support the proposal. In his speech, the Minister mentioned that a number of measures had been taken as a ban on discrimination. After all, it was an initiative that Dansk Folkeparti called the former Minister Mai Mercado for a question debate on the issue of the adoption of a law on discrimination. Then the minister in the platform also mentioned punishment for hate crimes. It was also a proposal from the Danish People's Party that we have put forward here in the Parliamentary Chamber. There was not a majority for that at that time, but the following year the government made it itself. So there's a lot of things we can do from the Danish Parliament where there's a will, there's a way • and as I've said before, we're quite ready to look at and make improvements in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110720	There is a question from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110722	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and thank you for the cooperation we have in general when it comes to increasing protection for people with disabilities and strengthening legal certainty. I think we have a very good cooperation there, and that is why, of course, I am sorry that there is no support from the Danish People's Party for this motion for a resolution, which is supported by the disability organisations out there, which in recent days have written a lot of good things about why it makes good sense to support this particular motion for a resolution. That is why I would like to ask what the rapporteur has said, because the rapporteur said that the motion for a resolution would not be supported because rights should not be based on a convention. But the proposal here is precisely to incorporate it into Danish law, so that it is in Danish law that you can have the increased protection for people with disabilities. So does the rapporteur not want to be involved in this, since that is what applies, i.e. that Danish legislation, in Danish law, increases protection for people with disabilities? Did the Danish People's Party not agree to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110821	Thank you. We do not always have good experience of some of the conventions that exist, which is why we fully agree that legal certainty must be strengthened, but not on the basis of a convention. We in Parliament can, if there are 90 mandates, strengthen legal certainty, strengthen this area, make legislation and follow up legislation, and the Danish People's Party has made several good proposals to strengthen this area, to ensure that people with disabilities receive better help, to strengthen legal certainty, both in relation to a legal security fund, suspensive effect and compensation. As the rapporteur on the Radical Left also knows, there is the swimming-girl case, a case which is quite straightforward and which we in Parliament can rectify. Why has the Radical Left not made any proposals in this area in the past in order to correct legal certainty for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110926	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110927	I very much agree that the swim-girl case is a very worrying matter and we would very much like to look at what was the outcome of the swim-girl case. But right now we are discussing the UN Disability Convention and its incorporation into Danish legislation, and I understand that the Danish People's Party will not incorporate it because it is a convention. But if we just wrote the same thing as it said in the convention, but pretended that it wasn't from where we picked it up, would the Danish People's Party help to strengthen people with disabilities' rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517110959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517111000	But I can repeat myself of several laps. In the Danish People's Party we have made several suggestions for improvements in this area, that is, right, right, many times. I believe that, if you count after, we are probably the party that has put forward the most proposals to strengthen it in the field of disability and taken the most into account in relation to the rate pool negotiations in the past, and we also received the warning system with Section 3A of the Services Act, which has suspensory effect within some clauses that we have proposed to extend, precisely in order to strengthen legal certainty. So that is the case, and I am just wondering why the Radical Left has not tabled any resolutions in the past in order to strengthen legal certainty in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517111039	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517111100	Thank you. In Denmark we help each other and we give each other a chance and the opportunity to live the life we want, regardless of who we are and where we come from. That is the attitude that is the basis of our welfare society and welfare system. Unfortunately, as I have said again and again from this platform, the reality today is quite different for people with disabilities. Whether we are talking about legal certainty, aids, BPA or transition from child to adult, we see time and time again that the picture we have of the Danish welfare system cracks when we look at conditions in the field of disability. We must do better, and that is why we believe in the SF that we must commit ourselves to clear objectives and thus make life better for people with disabilities through the incorporation of the UN Convention on Disability. For although Denmark ratified the UN Disability Convention back in 2009, it is clear to most that work is far from over. We believe that people with disabilities must be able to live a decent and active life on their own terms and on their own terms. There are many specific places we can put right. We can, for example. talk about the BPA. Personalised assistance is a fantastic solution which allows citizens with greater disability to organise their own assistance so that they can live the self-employed and active life they want. Unfortunately, the scheme has been eroded and undermined, and we must have done something about this, because the BPA is precisely one of the tools that allows people with disabilities to do something to adapt their help so that they can live the life they want, and not just what is cheapest for the municipality, which is a problem in this area. We must also ensure that, as a citizen with disabilities, you are not tied to your home or to a particular municipality in fear of losing the help that has been given. One must also be sure that the municipality does not mistreat cases and the process is dragged out to save money, or because the file is too large in the Ankestyrelsen. You should not just lose the help you receive or be fundamentally disadvantaged just because you are 18 years old and therefore go from child to adult. Instead, we need to focus on how we can help the citizen move forward with a full life that everyone else has, with education and jobs, possibly their own housing or community of living and leisure, and we need to ensure that the aids are given to those who need it to live a full, active and reasonably normal life. There are enough problems to address in the area of disability, but more fundamental changes are also needed. We must fundamentally change the way we see people with disabilities. We must give them support and the help they need to be able to live as normal and actively as possible. We should not just park them on a performance in a bad environment where they have no freedom. We must ensure that people with disabilities in Denmark have the same basic opportunities and rights as everyone else, and basically it is also the expectation that we all have of our welfare society, that is to say, whoever you are, you also have the opportunity to live a good life. That is exactly what the UN Convention on Disability provides. There are no unreasonable demands, but merely demands for fair adjustment, that is. We must be able to deliver on this in a strong welfare society. Therefore, if we all believe that everyone in Denmark should have equal opportunities and rights, we should take the next step in incorporating the disability convention into our national legislation. We are ready for this in the SF, which is why we naturally support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517111520	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517111542	Thank you. I have to inform you that our rapporteur in this area, Mr President. Jakob Silverhøj cannot be present, and that is why I put forward his views. It is now 12 years since the Danish Parliament decided to ratify the United Nations Disability Convention, and Enhedslisten agrees with the proposers that it is time to incorporate the Disability Convention into Danish law. The motion for a resolution refers to the report produced by the Committee on Human Rights back in 2014. As the comments on the proposal show, there was no agreement in the Committee on Human Rights on the recommendations concerning the incorporation of the seven conventions examined by the Committee. Of the 15 members of the Committee, the five were appointed by the then government and they failed to make recommendations, while among the remaining ten there was a small majority recommending the incorporation of most of the conventions, including the Disability Convention. This majority pointed out that incorporation would strengthen citizens' legal protection and send out an unequivocal signal that we in Denmark want to ensure respect for people with disabilities' rights. However, it is the opinion of the six advocates that there is no real risk of such a shift of power. The reality is, of course, that the actual form of incorporation is precisely designed in the Folketing, with all that that implies of democratic and political debate. Therefore, based on an overall assessment of the advantages and disadvantages, it is the recommendation of the six members of the Committee to incorporate the Convention in order to strengthen citizens with disabilities' legal protection. It was regrettable that the report back in 2014 did not lead to the incorporation of the Convention. It is a pity that we have left countries such as France and Germany in this area as pioneering countries, and we do not think that we should wait any longer. That is why the Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517111756	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517111817	The discussion which the Radical Left is raising here today on the incorporation of the UN Convention on Disability is important. This is important because the Convention provides a framework for the fact that, even if you are a citizen with a disability in our fast society, you obviously have to have exactly the same human rights and fundamental freedoms as all other citizens. As the authors also mention in the comments, Denmark has fortunately ratified the Convention, and so we have an obligation to organise national legislation so that it is working towards the objective within the framework of the Disability Convention. I do not believe that there are two opinions in this Chamber today that citizens with disabilities deserve a life in which, of course, they have the best conditions to live as normal as possible. And that is why I am pleased that we have the framework and the convention, because a proper one for people with disabilities is very high on the part of Conservatives. That is precisely why we must pay attention when we experience something that we cannot be familiar with people who have a disability, for example. lack of legal certainty. Unfortunately, it often happens that there are far too long processing times in the municipalities, for example. in relation to basic aids. It's something we need to do something about. Because in a welfare society like the Danish one, we must be able to expect more and provide the best framework for a good life. With our ratification of the Disability Convention, we committed ourselves to working within the framework of the Convention. Compared with the very vague and very broad wordings of the Convention, I do not believe that incorporation into Danish law will mean anything to the policy being pursued in this area. And I'm afraid it brought with it a lot of bureaucracy. And then I am also concerned about the shift of powers from legislative power to the courts. That is why, overall, we cannot support the Radical Left proposal, but I would very much like to thank the rapporteurs for a good discussion. It is good that we can all be reminded that people with disabilities must be guaranteed the best conditions in Denmark and that we must constantly try to do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517112044	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517112106	Denmark certainly does not need to incorporate any more conventions into Danish law. The Disability Convention has already been ratified, but it is still a long and tough move to have even the most basic legal certainty in the field of disability. Today, as a society, we are actually abandoning all those people with disabilities who cannot be helped and who are struggling bravely, but who are facing the wall of cash thought and counterpaveri out in the municipalities. The handicap area came under the municipalities in 2007 in the context of the municipal reform it was a mistake. The municipalities simply do not manage the task, and people with disabilities and their families become losers. As a society, we cannot accept that. Something needs to be done; the system needs to be broken down and something new needs to be built. I and New Citizens want to give all people with disabilities a uniform treatment. The conditions that apply to support and help must be the same for the individual with disabilities, whether you live in Gedser or Skagen. The problem of the lack of legal certainty in the area of disability can be resolved with political will. Unfortunately, that is not the will of the majority of Parliament's parties today. Furthermore, I am quite sure that incorporating the disability convention will have an impact on the granting of citizenship, and we do not want that. In Denmark it is the Danish Parliament that has to make the legislation. There is plenty to do in the field of disability, and we would like to do so in New Citizens. But incorporating another convention is certainly not the answer. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517112247	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. And that is why it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard, Radical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517112342	Thank you for the floor. Right to education, the right to participate in political and public life, the right to accessibility, the right to protection of personal integrity, the right to dignity, yes, just some of the few very fundamental and basic rights enshrined in the UN Convention on Disability. Denmark has ratified it in 2006 and entered into force in 2009. In 2017, we even received in Denmark a law prohibiting discrimination against people with disabilities outside the labour market, and it came into force in 2018. Therefore, one should immediately think that it is going the right way in relation to the rights of people with disabilities in Denmark. Unfortunately, we all know in here about the towering rates of change in the Ankestyrelsen and, as Danske Handicaporganisationer writes on their website today prior to this motion for a resolution, a few thousand citizens are still away who are not guaranteed the right to vote in the elections in the Folketing because they have a disability. The Institute of Human Rights has revealed that five out of six Danish transport companies will not help people with physical disabilities on board regular buses. One third of all victims of violence and sexual abuse have a cognitive or mental disability according to the Institute for Human Rights. And according to VIVE is only 58 percent. of all people with disabilities in employment as against 84 per cent. of all people without disabilities. Let us therefore take the step fully with the UN Disability Convention and incorporate rights for people with disabilities into Danish legislation. For example, looking at the UN recommendations on human rights to Denmark, in 2016 there were eight proposals for improvements related to people with disabilities, and in 2021 there were 15 proposals for improvements for people with disabilities. So there's room for improvement, I guess. One of the reasons why the Radical Left has raised this motion for a resolution today is that our minister, in consultation on 11 February 2021 1 hour, 50 minutes and 11 seconds inside the television broadcast, said: "I will assume at all times that we are living up to the disability convention and that we are living up to that responsibility'. A natural part of that would be to incorporate the Disability Convention into our legislation, for as the Committee on Inclusion, etc. in the field of human rights, in its report in 2014: "Incorporation will, in the Committee's view, lead in itself to clarification of the possibilities for private individuals to invoke the Convention before national courts'. The Committee stresses in particular that it is important for the intensity of the review; that is what, in legal language, means the depth of the assessment of compliance. I suppose it is a good thing to increase the opportunity to invoke the rights that I assume we agree that as a person with disabilities you have. In France, the disability convention is directly applicable, in Germany it has been incorporated as part of German law by a convention law. Would it not be good if Denmark were a country which was at least on the same footing as the countries with which we compare ourselves when it comes to guaranteeing people with disability rights? And that, as the Committee on Inclusion also writes, will give a positive signal in the international context, and when we have to go out into the world and convince others that they need to improve people with disabilities' rights, it will be strong that we ourselves have incorporated them into our own legislation. With regard to the majority of the committee, I would just like to point out that there were 6 in committee who spoke in favour and 4 against; so there were five who abstained because they were representatives of the ministries and therefore did not think they would give their opinion. So when there are 6 out of 15, it may sound as if it were not a majority, but in practice it was a majority because it was 6 to 4. And with the 6 against the 4 the committee gave the opinion that the convention is particularly suitable for incorporation into Danish legislation, because it is a group of people who are at particular risk of intervention and abuse. That is why a majority of the committee considered that the Convention should be incorporated into Danish legislation. At the same time, I would like to highlight a decision by the Central Jutland State Administration in 2012, which states that the Convention does not create an immediate right for citizens to invoke the conventions before the authorities. It was in relation to a case where a citizen tried it. And that is something we can change, so that the authorities cannot fail to have an accurate review of the UN Convention on Disability in their decision. That is why I would like to thank the parties, i.e. the SF and the Enhedslisten, whom I hear supported the motion for a resolution on incorporation into Danish law. I'm really glad. I have not heard in the debate anyone who was outright opposed to any of the articles of the UN Convention on Disability. That is why one might well wonder why, if one is not against the content, one does not think that we should incorporate it into Danish legislation. The main counter-argument has been that the majority is afraid, as it were, to shift power to the courts. It is therefore feared that rights will be established here which the courts will have to assess whether they have been respected. But that's what they do every day. It is therefore feared that the right to education and training will be respected in the courts; whether the right to participate in political and public life has been respected; whether the right to accessibility has been respected; whether the right to protection of personal integrity has been respected; whether the right to dignity has been respected, etc. etc. If you are afraid that the courts in Denmark will have to make that assessment, then first I am seriously concerned. That is why we must, of course, incorporate the disability convention into Danish law rather today than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113048	There are a few questions. The first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113054	Thank you. I am also often concerned about the Radicals. Speaking of legal certainty and proposals in this Chamber, I would like to hear from the rapporteur how many proposals the Radical Left has put forward in this Chamber to improve legal certainty. Now I mentioned the swim-girl case earlier, when we in the Danish People's Party had tabled a motion for a resolution requiring the government to ensure that citizens who have been successful by the Ankestyrelsen are able to receive compensation from the municipality that has made the wrong decision. It should also lead to the public being able to see it in relation to the municipalities. But it could be that the rapporteur wanted to tell us how the Radical Left has dealt with that proposal. But the Radical Left voted against. Every time we have discussed many of these proposals, the Radical Left has not voted in favour when they have come to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113201	I think we should be careful to make it a matter of whether we care about legal certainty, of who has the most motions for resolutions in the Assembly, because we cannot make proposals in the Assembly and then have no funding for them. It is therefore the case that when the Radical Left proposes improvements to conditions for people with disabilities, we do so, among other things. under the Financial Act. That's why we had, among other things. in our financial act, which Karina Adsbøl may have read, a proposal for an investigation into whether one might have an administrative court. This was one of several proposals we had in our financial law proposal. I think it is appropriate to say that concern for legal certainty is not just about the number of proposals in this Chamber, because there is sometimes some funding behind it, but I am pleased with the cooperation of the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left in general when it comes to legal certainty. I think we are very close to each other and have a really good cooperation when we raise cases, and I would like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113300	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113302	Thank you. Then, in the whole area of disability, a joint report can be drawn up to ensure that people with disabilities are properly treated in the system we have today. When the rapporteur says this about funding, I would say that we have raised funding on several occasions, but let it be. However, the proposal tabled by the Radical Left states in the last column: the consequence of the proposal will be a clarification of existing rules which people with disabilities can invoke. Against this background, the economic consequences are deemed to be limited. That is, of course, some of what the rapporteur writes in the motion for a resolution that has been tabled and which we are debating today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113348	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113349	Yeah, that's absolutely right. We write in the motion for a resolution here that it is the assessment that more people would be able to invoke the rights that apply in the disability convention when they are made clear in Danish legislation. That is also what the Committee on Inclusion writes in their 2014 report, and that is what they all write. Then there is a majority which recommends that it should actually be incorporated, but everyone says that it will provide clarification and that it will lead to more people being able to invoke the rights of the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113421	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113423	It is difficult to disagree with the rapporteur on all the positive elements that would be incorporating the disability convention. However, I am curious to hear whether the rapporteur does not see any of the disadvantages of incorporating the Convention. The rapporteur has a little to say about this at the end of his speech. Can the rapporteur not see that it is a problem that many of the provisions are too vague and that, therefore, the rapporteur will not be able to see that this would be a disadvantage?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113457	If we lack some precision in some of the rights that are enshrined in the Disability Convention, we can highlight this in the parliamentary debate which will then be in connection with the adoption of the Convention in Danish legislation. Then you can say that there are several parties who stand up and say: when we assess the right to education, it means that and so on. I know that the questioner is also a lawyer, and I know that what is being said in the debate in this context is important. So that's where we can make the filling that needs to be done if the Left would like to be part of it. And there I would like to raise my hand and say that if there are any elements that the Left is concerned about whether some of these articles are too general or vague, we can make the filling that is needed in the parliamentary debate which could lead to the incorporation of the Disability Convention into Danish law. The Radical Left is ready to cooperate with the Left on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113550	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113552	Thank you for that clarification. Will this mean that I have to understand that the rapporteur disagrees with the disadvantages put forward by the Committee on Human Rights, so that it is simply not a problem that the rules are too vague and that power is being shifted because the rapporteur says that we will have a debate in here anyway? So can the rapporteur say 'yes' or 'no' to whether you disagree with what the Committee on Human Rights says, after all, there are disadvantages?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113622	I'm not really worried about that. We must remember that the Service Act, which we all know in here, is now also governed by administrative law in such a way that its provisions can be described as vague and elastic. Most of the provisions say "can't" and that is because it will often be an individual and concrete assessment, so it is the administrative approach that is often in the field of social law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113649	Then there are no more questions. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113706	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517113730	Thank you for that, President. We are now discussing motion for a resolution B 218. That has been put forward by the Left. With the proposal, the proposers will require the government to launch by 1 June this year a comprehensive pilot project with older counsellors to inform about the various private providers of services. The aim of the proposal is to guide older citizens and possibly relatives to make a free choice of service provider. The proposal provides for the development of a final model for older counsellors in relation to suppliers' choices that can be rolled out across the country. In the government, we want a welfare society based on the needs of the individual elderly and where each elderly person experiences self-determination and influence on his or her own life. For me and for the government, what is important is not whether it is a private or public supplier that vacuums in the citizen's home. What is important, however, is that care is organized according to the needs of the individual citizen. Unlike the proposers, we in the government have a broader approach to free choice with a greater focus on self-determination and the needs of the individual elderly than just a focus on the free choice of service provider. A dignified care for the elderly, where we can all be confident that our loved ones will have the help and care they need when they themselves can no longer, if old age is pressing, is about keeping their hands under welfare financially, that the funds will come with when more older people arrive. This government has secured this in the economic agreements we have made with the municipalities. It is also about ensuring that we have an elderly care where there is time and space to reach and quality between the employees and the elderly and their relatives, where it is not all eaten up by bureaucracy, but where the self-determination and quality of life of the elderly are at the centre every day. In order to ensure a dignified care for the elderly, with the greatest possible self-determination for older citizens, the government has launched a number of initiatives which focus on finding new ways and ways of strengthening the care of the elderly to the benefit of the elderly and the elderly's relatives and to the fight against bureaucracy and minute tyranny. One of the initiatives of our very first financial agreement and thanks to the Finance Law parties for it was a pool to strengthen care and presence in the care of the elderly. In this respect, 245 million were set aside. kr., which is now translated into 31 different projects that develop and test new ways to strengthen the care and presence of citizens in our care for the elderly. A concrete example here is about testing the core elements of the Buurtzorg model, getting it evaluated and developed in a Danish context. It is also the cooperation with citizens and relatives and autonomous teams, which are interdisciplinary, which must help ensure coherence for the citizen in a flexible allocation of aid, where the citizen and the employee constantly adapt the help that the citizen needs, because two citizens are not the same, and two days are not the same in the life of an elderly citizen. In addition to that, there are projects in the pool that look at ways to reduce unnecessary documentation requirements so that we can ensure that time is spent on the individual elderly citizen. There is a project to reverse the search process and reduce the requirement for documentation to free up time and profit to care and presence. And there are many other very, very exciting development projects that I follow closely. Another initiative is the so-called Freedom Communities, in other words the welfare agreements concluded between the government and three specific municipalities in the area of the elderly, where we in the Danish Parliament, with legislation, have also freed the municipalities from most of the state rules, and local authorities have done the same for the municipal rules. We have turned the bucket upside down and made the most radical freeing attempt ever. The aim is clear: that with freedom comes responsibility; older citizens must experience greater presence and a greater space for the care and care and needs of the individual elderly in everyday life. Finally, the government and the parties from the senior summit have started work on precisely the organisation of visitation and governance. The aim is to strengthen the work undertaken to develop new forms of organisation of care for the elderly under different auspices, with more or less autonomous teams around citizens. The aim is freed management, greater professional space, close dialogue between citizens, relatives and employees on how the aid is organised and organised in everyday life. So we in the government have a strong focus on self-determination and also a focus on self-determination and the needs of the individual, which go beyond the free choice of service provider. With the proposal we are discussing here today, more obligations and more bureaucracy apply to the municipalities, and that is despite the fact that there are already rules in place for municipal councils to provide information on the possibilities for free choice of service providers. Here, then, again, is a proposal from Christiansborg, where the funds go not to care and presence, but to administration. It is therefore without reason that, as part of its general obligation to provide information on the possibilities of freely choosing the provider of services, the municipal council must inform the recipients of home help of which authorized providers of the assistance the citizen can choose from. More unnecessary bureaucracy, more unnecessary obligations are not the way to decent care for the elderly, in which we create a better framework for professionalism, care and presence. With more bureaucracy, however, we are stifling the opportunities for the individual citizen to experience more presence, better care and better care. To spend 50 million. kr. in a pilot project on older counsellors in relation to suppliers' choice, which will result in more bureaucracy, more rules and more obligations in an area where legislation is already in place, is not, in my view, a sensible use of so much money. In addition, the proposers refer to the financial priorities of the Left for 2021, where among other things: The proposal here is being financed through a roll-back of the agreement on the new entitlement to early retirement. Nor can the government support that funding. As I said, I share the aims of the proposers and the desire for dignified care for the elderly, with the greatest possible self-determination for the citizens, but more obligations and more bureaucracy for the municipalities are not the right way to go. It hits the employees, and it hits the elderly. That is why the government cannot support the proposal. As I have said, it is partly because of the bureaucratic consequences in an area where there are already obligations in the legislation that pursue the same purpose, but also because the government looks much wider on the care of the elderly than just the free choice of service providers. We are working instead of finding new ways and new ways of ensuring self-determination and quality of life for older citizens and dignified care for the elderly, which is not organised on the basis of schedules and minute tyranny, but on the basis of the needs of the specific elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114423	There are a few questions. The first is from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114425	Thank you for that, and although it was a rather cool reception of the proposal here, I would like to thank you for the speech anyway, because you have to be so generous, Minister. At any rate, I can hear here that there is a clear ideological dividing line, one can almost say where the Minister sees the possibility that older citizens are free to choose a care home provider or a foster home, as a restriction, and where we in the Left see it as a freedom and as something that can free citizens. It is, of course, quite honest and real that the government and the government's support parties see free elections as a restriction and something that needs to be stepped down. But the Minister says many of the right words about starting from the needs of the elderly and the elderly, so I would still like to ask the Minister: does the Minister not think that it is a problem that it is 67 per cent? of the residents of nursing homes and home help recipients who really do not know that they have a free choice? Doesn't the Minister think that's a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114533	But first, in the name of generosity, I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution if I did not do so. In that case, it was a mistake, so when the rapporteur thanks for the speech, I would like to thank him for the opportunity to have the debate here today. So I have to say in relation to this statement by the Left that there should be some desire on the part of the government to reduce the free elections and it might be interesting to clarify where it is seen that there are already rules for the guidance of citizens on the free election system. There are, then, both a number of citizens who make use of it and a number of citizens who do not avail themselves of it, both among those who make use of it and those who do not avail themselves of it, there is pleasure in the fact that free elections exist. But the free choice is not the answer to all the problems we face, with a lack of dignity in our care for the elderly, a lack of space to take account of the individual elderly in everyday life, a lack of equal 2 days and a need for proper and dignified help. That is why it is a very narrow proposal which the Left has tabled today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114636	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114638	I fully agree that free choice is not the answer to everything, but it is part of the answer. And it has to be said that it is limited what has come from the government, perhaps just in addition to the welfare agreements, about the fact that the Minister is now calling for an answer to where we see it will limit the free choice. In fact, the welfare agreements provide for the municipalities to be able to limit the free choice of our elderly people. But the Minister did not answer the question I asked, namely whether the Minister does not find it problematic that 67 per cent. In fact, the residents of nursing homes and the recipients of home care are not even aware of the fact that they have a free choice. Isn't it problematic that so few know so little?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114717	First of all, in relation to the welfare agreements, what has also been called the municipalities of freedom, I think that it is sad, nor has the Left supported the proposal that has been put forward. Well, you can get upset and wonder about that. What we are giving the municipalities could just as well lead to private suppliers taking over more. In other words, if the free choice of supplier is the answer to our problems in the care of the elderly, the Left ought to believe that one or more municipalities would resort to it. It doesn't say in the law that you have to drop the free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114751	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114752	Thank you. I would like to hear the Minister's response to how older citizens have felt an increased level of service, i.e. increased quality standards. In the Danish People's Party we fought among others. We have been able to see that several municipalities have saved it. In relation to the welfare agreements, and now the Minister can say that I have asked too many questions so that the Minister cannot answer the Minister can then confirm that the elderly are actually deprived of some of the rights they have today? The right to appoint a helper, the right to choose the supplier of practical assistance or food services, the right to rehabilitation and the right to relief or the replacement of relatives, are some of the things which the municipalities cannot live up to today in relation to the Services Act, if they are part of this welfare agreement. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517114856	Thank you. So let me start from the end to see if I can answer all the questions. We have from day one of this government insisted that, when more older people come out there, the money should also come with us. This is a fundamental principle, and we think it is so important that we will also regulate it here in the Assembly. This was not done in the government that the Danish People's Party held in power, and this is worrying for the elderly. When the funds do not go with the increasing number of elderly people, they erode and undermine the quality of our care for the elderly, and that is why the boosts we have made in the economic agreements with the municipalities are so important. In addition, we have added money to the area of the elderly in the financial laws that we have made subsequently. In relation to the welfare agreements, we have, of course, maintained the most necessary fence posts, and one of the fence posts is that the elderly must continue to receive the help they need. But we loosen the reins, compared to the fact that it should be us here at Christiansborg who know best what form that help should take. That is why I look very much forward to seeing what solutions will be found for the benefit of the elderly and their relatives in the municipalities that have been given this freedom. And with that freedom, then, there is also a responsibility that is binding. There must be more proximity, and there must be more quality in care for the elderly, and it will be incredibly exciting to see how they land it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115008	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115009	So, in the Danish People's Party we have also fought for the elderly for many years, and we have also fought for extra funding. But then I also asked how it has lifted the area of the elderly in the municipalities, how it has lifted the service and how the aid has improved. Has the aid deteriorated, or is it the status quo? Because it is also about giving money and making legislation that you also have to follow up on whether it works and is good enough and whether it increases the service. I am aware that the Minister cannot answer the question as to which service has been increased. In other words, the Minister can look at an answer given by the Minister to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115050	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115051	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has fought for the elderly for many years," says the Danish People's Party rapporteur. I can easily recognise that the elderly have filled a lot for the Danish People's Party, but it did not fill so much that the Danish People's Party succeeded in keeping up the previous government that when more older people arrive in the municipalities, the money must follow. So, in the previous government there were parties that would have zero growth in the municipalities; there were parties that would have minus growth in the municipalities. It was a government with the kind of discussions that the Danish People's Party held in power. That is why I would just like to say that it is absolutely crucial that we have both made economic agreements, where the money goes with the increasing number of elderly people, we have added funds to the finance laws, and we have ensured with compensatory reform that 1.4 billion are moved. kr. from the best-off municipalities to the most difficult municipalities, among others. when it comes to running care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115141	There are no more questions, and we thank the Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and that is first Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115206	Thank you. Today we have to consider a proposal from the Left to instruct the government to launch a comprehensive pilot project with senior counsellors aimed at guiding older citizens and possibly relatives to make an active and free choice of services. I have to say first of all that I am a little surprised that the Left is going to propose spending 50 million. kr. In this context, it should be pointed out that there is a need for the local authorities to carry out an attempt to do something to which the municipalities are already obliged. It is, of course, the case that there are already rules whereby, as part of the general obligation of the municipal council to provide information on the possibilities of free choice of suppliers, the municipal council must also inform citizens and recipients of home help about which authorised providers of the aid citizens can actually choose from. The municipalities already do that today, for example. on the municipality's website, orally or by handing over a leaflet. It is, in fact, a requirement that already exists today. In the Social Democratic Party we do not want to create more obligations and more bureaucracy in the municipalities by making additional rules or arrangements on information and guidance, and although this is only an attempt on this proposal, we do not exactly expect the experiment to lead to useful experiences that we can necessarily continue with. We are aiming for less bureaucracy for the municipalities, and instead we would very much like to create the framework for more professionalism, more care and more presence in the care of the elderly, and to allocate 50 million. kr. to a pilot project aimed at fulfilling existing commitments, we do not think that is the right way to go to achieve that objective. Of course, in the social democracy we want more dignity in the care of the elderly, and we want it to be possible for employees, together with the individual citizen, to be able to organise care and help in the light of the needs of the individual, and it is not at all crucial whether it is public or private suppliers who provide care, but whether the care is organized according to the needs of the citizen. I just want to say that right now it is sizzling and bubbling out in the municipalities to stifle unnecessary governance and bureaucracy, and everyone wants to get rid of this so that there will be more time for presence. Already with the 2020 Finance Act, 245 million was allocated. kr. for various projects designed to develop and test new innovative ways of strengthening the care and presence of citizens in the care of the elderly, looking at ways of reducing unnecessary documentation requirements, so that more time is spent on the individual citizen and of course also on talking to the individual citizen about which offers suit the citizen best. The government has also started work on the welfare agreement, as the Minister just mentioned, so I will not spend so much of my speaking time on that. Finally, the government and the parties in the context of the Elder Summit have also launched a work on organisation and searching and management, the aim of which is to strengthen the work being done to develop new forms of organisation of care for the elderly with smaller teams around citizens. The aim here is to free management, provide greater professional space and allow for close dialogue between citizens and relatives and employees on how to organise and run the aid on a daily basis. Finally, we should also point out that the Municipality Agreement for 2021 actually states that the government and the KL agree that the current governance and regulation in several welfare areas has become too complex and has too much focus on how we deliver welfare rather than on what welfare we provide. So, on the left, we will say no to spending 50 million. kr. on a task already to be undertaken by the municipalities. Citizens today have the opportunity to choose freely and to obtain the necessary information from the municipalities about what choices they can make. For us, it is important that we spend the money on more welfare rather than on who provides the welfare. So we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. I should say hello from the Enhedslisten and say that neither can they. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115547	There's a few questions we're gonna bring here. First, it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115555	Thank you to the Social Democrats' rapporteur for at least being clear and clear. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that it is, in fact, a municipal obligation today to provide information about free elections. But now that we can see that 67 per cent. In fact, of the residents of nursing homes and home help recipients, have no idea that they have free choice, do the Socialists think that the municipalities are fulfilling their obligation to inform them that there are free choice options?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115623	The figures almost speak for themselves, you can say, and I have no doubt that some of what is happening out there, among other things. In relation to nursing homes, you see that free choice is not always so great. Because we know that if you're gonna have a nursing home, you have to take what's there. I have recently heard little about the fact that you have just got the nursing home you really wanted, because we lack nursing homes and there is a great demand for them. And when you stand and have to have a nursing home, it is now and here that you have to have it, and it is actually often the case that you have to say: that is the place I get, unless I want to wait, because I have the free choice. So I think it is also important that we are equally realistic about what kind of situations citizens sometimes find themselves in out there when it comes to free elections and, for example, free elections. nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115714	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115716	Thank you. Well, I fully agree with the Socialist rapporteur that the figure speaks for itself. That is exactly what it is doing when far too few people know that they really have a free choice. That is why it sounds hollow when the Socialist rapporteur says that it is not crucial whether it is public or private, unless, of course, one can put forward a good proposal on how to ensure that even more elderly people are actually informed and told that they have a free choice. That then leads me to ask: what will the Socialists do to ensure that more older citizens are aware of and aware that they are actually free to choose between a public and a private supplier when they, for example, are able to do so? must choose care, care, food service or a foster home? How will the Socialists ensure that more elderly people know that they can choose a free-care home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115806	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115807	In fact, I think the Minister very, very well told about all the initiatives the government has taken now to create more warm hands, to create more presence and to give more time to the individual; a task which the municipalities clearly have to solve. In other words, it is the case that this government has so much left its mark when it comes to holding hands under welfare, where it is not exactly what we saw from the previous government. Sorry, I had to repeat it, but the opportunity has now been created to create more presence for the older citizens.That is also what I hear the municipalities say they want to say and hopefully we are looking into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115839	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115840	Thank you. Then, after Mrs Jane Heitmann, I can continue to ask Mrs Jane Heitmann what the rapporteur will do to ensure that the elderly are familiar with the free choice, because the rapporteur did not answer the question. As the rapporteur has just said, the figures speak for themselves. Many people are not aware that they have the opportunity to do so, and when you are not aware of what opportunities and rights you have, you find it very difficult to act on that basis. So what exactly will the rapporteur do for this? I would like the rapporteur's answer, and I would not like the rapporteur to refer to the Minister's answer, because I also think that, as rapporteur for the elderly, one is also interested in having an opinion on how things should be, including in the municipal area. Mrs Birgitte Vind could also mention how to do it in her own municipality, in other words how to ensure that the elderly are aware of their choices, including free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517115937	Well, it is the responsibility of the municipalities, and we cannot remotely control it here from Christiansborg, it is in the legislation, and now we do it from the government side, with the support of other parties, too, that we send out more funds to the municipalities, and we even do it, that we encourage the municipalities to think new and think differently, work in smaller teams around the citizens, create more proximity around the citizens, and if that was not what it took to get time for these conversations, to meet the individual citizen, where the citizen is, well, then I don't know what. After all, we cannot sit here at Christiansborg and manage the conversations the employees have with the staff, so it is a question of establishing the conditions for this to happen at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517120017	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517120019	As far as I am concerned, this is also about visible management and about having a proper culture, and that is why I think the rapporteur actually does not talk about it. One is that you say that you are sending out some funds, another is that you do not ensure that the service then increases; you do not ensure that the elderly receive more dignified care for the elderly. The second thing the rapporteur says about the municipalities at the same time is nonsense when she says that we cannot manage in detail, but what will the Socialist rapporteur do when the municipalities fail to fulfil their obligation to the elderly, that they can express themselves and have the opportunity of free elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517120052	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517120054	Indeed, some of what we see today is probably the effect of at least the time when the rapporteur's own party was in power and supported the previous government, so of course it is easy to shoot at us who are sitting here today. What we are actually doing is, of course, giving more money to the area and calling on the municipalities, and agreements have been made with the KL about the need to give more presence and presence to the individual citizen, and that must be the way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517120122	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. And when we start up again, it is with Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, as rapporteur. The sitting will be suspended until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130001	The sitting is resumed. Members of the Folketing Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others. I have been informed that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposals for a parliamentary resolution on the criminalisation of identity theft and abuse of identity. 272). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130039	We start after the break with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130058	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you to the Left for the proposal. In the Danish People's Party we welcome the establishment of a pilot project with senior counsellors whose purpose is to guide older citizens and their relatives to make an active and free choice based on the services provided by the Service Act. The pilot project will form the basis for the development of a final model that can be disseminated across the country. The offer of older counsellors must include older people who are being searched for a service on the basis of the free choice system, with the aim of allowing older citizens to make a free choice on the basis of the opportunities they currently have. Whether they want a private supplier or a municipal supplier must be their decision and must be taken on an informed basis. The Danish People's Party has previously made proposals on an elderly law and nursing home boards. This proposal contained a number of measures for the elderly, including: to ensure that older citizens receive dignified treatment, care and direct influence on their daily lives. The Older Law was supposed to be among other things. the introduction of minimum standards in the care of the elderly, the strengthening of the supervision of nursing homes, and the trial scheme of the Patient Safety Board should be made permanent. The right to care is not specifically enshrined in Article 83 of the Services Act, but recent revelations in the area of the elderly also confirm the need for legislation to include a real right of care for the elderly. Also with the introduction of a genuine right of care, the Elders' Inspectorate will be able to react if it is found that the citizen does not have the care to which he or she is entitled. In relation to this proposal we are discussing today, I would like to say that it is now also a very long time since I have been in home care, but at that time the visitor had a brochure with which to inform the elderly about their possibilities, including information about municipal and private suppliers. It is important that the elderly receive information about their choices. It was also a measure that could be included in the Older People's Act, but unfortunately there was no majority in favour. We are positive about this and would like to know more about the practice that exists today, which is certainly different, depending on which municipality you live in. We look forward to going ahead with this proposal, because one is, as we have discussed and debated here today, what the legislation says, another is how the legislation is being followed and implemented, and how it is Therefore it is also important that we follow up on what practice it is today, because it is true that a study shows that older people and their relatives do not feel informed about the choices they have today. We must, of course, do better. So we in the Danish People's Party are positive about doing something in this area, so that we at least ensure that you have the right to know what opportunities you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130413	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130418	Thank you very much, the Danish People's Party, for the fine reception of the motion for a resolution here. I am really pleased that we can also work together here to find a form in which older counsellors can work, and also to hear the view of the Danish People's Party that we need to tighten up so that more people know that we really have a free choice. Then I would just sign and say that I kind of agree with the Danish People's Party, in that we might need to know a little more about the municipal practice out there. We could, of course, take a united stand there during the committee procedure. So I just want to sign for the fact that the Danish People's Party mentions that there is probably a somewhat uneven practice out there, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130502	Well, thank you and thank you for the receipt. In the Danish People's Party, we are certainly fully committed to doing everything we can to ensure that our older fellow citizens and also relatives are protected. So I hope that we can do something in some way, if not another country, a joint report. I don't know if we can create a majority. It looks bad at the moment, but we can hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130526	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130542	Thank you for that and thank you to the Left for putting forward the proposal, if only for a further debate on worthy care for the elderly. In the proposal, the Left claims that since 2001 they have been the driving force behind the spread of free choice in the care of the elderly and, for that matter, also in other welfare areas. The advantage of getting older is that you can remember further back, because the Left has rightly been concerned with the privatisation of elderly care and health long before that time. It was not really a success in the municipalities, but the Left did not give up. The belief that citizens, if they had to decide for themselves, would choose private suppliers became the basis of the free choice system, which entered into force in 2003. However, the citizens did not choose the private suppliers with whom the municipality was now obliged to have agreements. Nor was a compulsory offensive in which public employees in the care of the elderly were forced to ride around with advertising to the elderly for private suppliers had any effect. It also became clear that the scheme was expensive for the municipalities, not because the elderly were given more help, but because it became more bureaucratic. This was also allegedly the reason why the municipalities were given the opportunity to choose the tender model instead of the approval model. This led at least some municipalities to encourage citizens who alone needed practical help to choose a private supplier, but thus still without much effect. The Left then believes that it is now necessary to hire more consultants in the public sector to spread the knowledge of free elections. One might also soon conclude that free choice is not a sought-after product among the elderly and that we should perhaps use the means to improve standards and services for the elderly instead of increasing municipal bureaucracy and imposing even more guidelines and demands on the municipalities. I think that's what's needed. The fact is that the standards are equally good or equally poor regardless of whether they are public or private. There is, however, a difference. For example, a quick search of private nursing homes in Aarhus shows two things: really little information about prices, but information about purchases. For example, you can buy 1 hour extra help for 360 DKK. per hour to accompany you to the hospital. Are we really sending vulnerable nursing homes in the hospital alone? Yes, we do. In the SF, we are going to prioritise resources for more and better care for the elderly, not for more bureaucracy and administration, and therefore the SF is also voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130838	There is a question from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130842	Thanks to SF's rapporteur and also for taking us down memory lane; as it is always good to get refreshed both for good and for evil. The SF rapporteur suggests that freedom of choice or freedom of choice are not, in fact, important for the elderly, and I am quite incomprehensible about that. If you read the study that DI has done back in 2020, it was actually 82 per cent. of the elderly interviewed felt that it was important or very important that one should be able to choose oneself, for example. nursing home or nursing home. Does SF not recognise that it is a very good starting point, that we have something to choose from, and that it is thus not crucial whether you choose a private or public player?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517130931	Yes, I acknowledge that, and I also believe that most elderly people are very concerned that the help that they themselves should receive is precisely the help that they themselves think they need, no more or less. In practice, however, I think that we must also recognise that, at the time we are searched for care for the elderly, we are vulnerable and weak; it is urgent to find a nursing home, and in practice the accommodation that you want is rarely available. This means, of course, that by far the vast majority of elderly people who urgently need a nursing home have to take the accommodation that happens to be available, because we do not have a number of idle homes for which citizens can be searched as needed. That is why it is important to me that the housing offered to the elderly is a home where we can create exactly the life and framework of exactly the life that the elderly themselves think is a good old life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131028	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131029	Well, I quite agree that it is a disaster, that there are no more elderly homes and that there are no more nursing homes to choose from, so you can have exactly the life you want. It's the case that in about 50 percent. In fact, there are no free-care homes in the municipalities of Denmark. There are only municipal authorities, and municipal nursing homes may be good, but if we are to hold on to the option, there must also be free nursing homes. What will SF do to enable all elderly people to choose exactly the accommodation they want?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131100	I think most elderly people are concerned that they are going to live in the neighborhood they think fit for them, and perhaps near family, and I think most elderly people are concerned that the help they get there, where they come to live and the accommodation may also be nice • is also the help they need. I do not really think it is important whether it is private or public. I do not think it is for the elderly either, but I also note, when I look at the nursing home portal, that there are very large price differences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131132	Then we say thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more questions, and we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Vinther as rapporteur for Radicals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131151	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The very idea that older people should know their rights is a good idea. It's actually so good that it's already law. In addition, municipalities can be encouraged to think new and be creative in terms of taking new steps to ensure good care for the elderly, and if you need to introduce older counsellors locally, you also have the opportunity to do so, but to set aside 50 million. kr. We are in favour of the municipalities fulfilling the task they have been assigned to, including in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131230	That is all, and it seems that there are no questions, so we thank the rapporteur. The Enhedslisten is not present, so now it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll as rapporteur for Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131259	Thank you, and thank you very much to the Left, for presenting this motion for a resolution which obliges the government to launch a pilot project with older counsellors. As our elder rapporteur, Mette Abildgaard, unfortunately cannot be in this Chamber, I represent the Conservative People's Party here today, but she will be dealing with the subsequent committee. The motion for a resolution addresses a very important issue, we think, namely the lack of knowledge of our older people about their own rights. For almost 20 years, our elderly have had a free choice in terms of nursing home, personal care, home care and food care, but if they do not know, that right is not particularly worth it. Studies show that about a third of those who are searched for practical help do not know the free choice, that one third of the elderly who are searched for a foster home do not know the free choice and that about half of the elderly who are searched for personal care do not know the free choice. And why don't they? It may be because many of our older people have grown up in a different time, the war and the postwar period, where one was more content and where one might have had a different attitude than today. More: What can I do for society? What do I need out of it? They're not asking for it. They think: I settle, I guess I can, I don't need it, and I'm sure some people are worse off than me. However, it is very important that all of our older people, including many of our fresh elderly people, know what they have of opportunities for them to have a better and more dignified elderly life, so the idea of older counsellors is exciting. We have also heard the idea raised by the organizational world, which is why we are in favour of a pilot project, although we may not just think that it can stand alone. The municipalities must also be aware of their responsibilities, and there are many who do, but when we have these figures that show that a lot of people do not know their opportunities and rights, we need to do something. In fact, such a proposal as what we are talking about today should not be necessary if the municipalities were to provide sufficient information about the free choice to which they are actually legally obliged. We Conservatives would urge the Minister to send a shepherd letter to the municipalities, where it is made clear that this information must be given to our elderly and their relatives in an easily understandable way and at the right time in relation to the decision that our elderly should take. It should be dosed so that it is not about nursing homes, if you can take care of yourself otherwise, but whether some extra home help is needed. We welcome the proposal and thank the Left for the initiative. However, it might be useful to know a little more about how the 50 million. kr. is calculated. It says it must be a pilot project, but it does not say how many municipalities it should apply. It also says that older counsellors can cross borders, but neither, as I read it, does it say anything about a time perspective. That is why it is a little difficult to consider whether it should cost 50 million. kr. or 20 million kr., and how much it actually includes. However, we are very positive about the proposal. After all, we are a little concerned that the government has initiated an experimental scheme that allows us to remove this right for our elderly people. We are against this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131626	There are a few questions. The first is from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131630	Thank you for that, too, thanks to the Conservatives for their positive reception. I am also very pleased that the Conservatives attach particular importance to the fact that there must be something to choose from. It's all missing. Then I would just like to sign for the proposal for a shepherd's letter to KL, where, like, what to say, one insists that one should remember that one has a municipal obligation to provide information and I hope the Minister is listening carefully and that the minister will take the good idea with him. But together we can delve into that in committee. So thank you for the positive reception.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131709	Thank you to the Left, and thank you for your support for a shepherd's letter. It is not something that costs anything, and it will certainly be an easy political one, you might say, wave or a gain for the minister too, if you came out with such a shepherd's letter. So I guess it could be good for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131729	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131733	Thank you. I listened very interestedly to the rapporteur's proposal on what such an elderly counsellor could be used for. I think I heard the rapporteur say that, for example, this is the case. could be advice and guidance, in terms of whether it was really a foster home you needed or whether you just needed more help. And then it just hit me, isn't that the visitor's job? And does the rapporteur think that we have challenges with the advice and guidance that the visitor gives to all citizens around the country, also in terms of what opportunities they have to choose, for example, a private supplier? And what does the rapporteur think of an elderly counsellor who does not have the right to be involved in drawing up the conclusions as to what the citizen can actually be searched for? Isn't that gonna be a little double-confect?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131827	You might think so. But we're just gonna have to look at the numbers I read just now. There it turned out that, in fact, between one third and half of the elderly who are searched do not know what they can do about what they can do about it. It's like you go to your own doctor who says: You need this kind of medicine but you're actually feeling really bad about it. But you don't know there are other options. It's the same thing as if the visitor says, this is what you can get. Then there are many older ones, at least I think so, many of the older ones I know, including my own parents who are very modest, so they say: Well, it's also very noble; thank you for that. They do not know that they have the possibility of free elections. This is what older counsellors have to go out to support and explain to older people, that is, where their opportunities are and what they can do. I am not an expert in the area of the elderly, I am just a standin here, but at least that is what we see, namely that there is at least a greater challenge. That is why we are very much in favour of the Left's proposal, which says: we need older counsellors. If, then, one day it has completely solved itself, it may be possible to stop the old people's counselling system. However, in relation to where we stand today, we think it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131933	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517131935	I just think that the rapporteur revolves around something quite different, namely that citizens do not necessarily get searched for what they actually need, and that they modestly, and because they do not know the area, just say: well, that's probably the way it is. And I respect that. It can be hard to find a way around. But is it really about the fact that for too long we have failed to ensure that expenditure has been accompanied by demographic developments and that aid is also sufficient? We can see that the more elderly there will be, the harder it will be to be searched into a nursing home. After all, we have not had any more nursing homes, although there have been relatively more elderly ones. So is it not really just a starving economy in the care of the elderly that is the cause of the problems that the rapporteur puts forward as an argument for us now to have older counsellors and not more to help the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132023	No, not necessarily, because there are also many options for choosing private offers. It's also an option. A lot of people don't realize that you can either. But it is clear that we have an ongoing challenge ahead of us with our entire care for the elderly, because of course, and fortunately, we are getting older, but the costs in the municipalities are also growing very rapidly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132047	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. We need a little despriting and then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132111	Freedom and free elections have unfortunately been difficult in Denmark anno 2021. We live in a country where the system is characterised by cash thinking, which destroys it for the individual. We saw that only this summer in the area of the elderly. We saw it in a much spoken and heart-rending documentary on TV 2, where you saw how the nursing home dwellers Else and Niels, who are both people with dementia, were humiliated and badly abandoned by the nursing staff at two municipal nursing homes in Aarhus and Randers respectively. Now it shouldn't sound like conditions are like this in all municipal nursing homes, but this problem is deeper than just the two nursing homes in Aarhus and Randers. It is simply that the system is not good enough. Therefore, there is a need for the elderly and their relatives to be given much better opportunities to vote with their feet. In short, they must have a real free choice, both to choose from and to choose from. The elderly and their relatives today do not have enough freedom to choose from or to choose for themselves. In New Citizens, we are in favour of the money following the individual elderly so that the elderly and their relatives can decide for themselves what care they want, because it is an essential part of a dignified old age that the system does not underage the elderly. Of course, this should also apply if you choose another home care provider or something else. Therefore, schemes in which the municipality searches for, for example, a nursing home, food and cleaning should be provided as a direct grant on a certificate that the elderly person can dispose of himself. It will quite naturally close the nursing homes that do not provide a high enough level of care, and bad managers and employees will not just be repositioned. They will be chosen from. Then we also want much more nursing homes to be free-care homes, because this creates better room for initiative and individual solutions outside the public acquis and municipal ties. In free-care homes, ideas can be translated much more easily and more quickly into practical measures and better quality of life for residents, and this is urgently needed if the entire area of the elderly, which I am proposing here, is to be set aside, the problems addressed by this motion for a resolution would in fact be completely avoided. I certainly think it is good that we want to take action when so many clearly do not know their right to choose, but the system must be completely changed. We must give the elderly who have helped build up our country, a decent and caring old age and a real free choice. Actually, I think they deserve that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132357	There are a few brief comments. First it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132402	Thank you. I love it when people vote with their feet, and I think it is quite fair that, as older people, you can choose and choose from, in relation to what you think you need. But one example, Mrs Mette Thiesen: in a private nursing home in the area I come from, one could then choose to buy oneself for the help that was not within the framework that the municipality had now set out. It interpreted this private nursing home in such a way that citizens were offered that when they should have washed their hair, they could also choose to buy themselves for hair massage. I myself have wondered a lot about how in the world people do their washing hair without also giving hair massage. But here it had become a buy-in. This had not happened in a public nursing home, which had been washed hair, with what is now the result of hair massage, because there can be no buy-in. Isn't there just a huge challenge in terms of the risk of boosting the benefits of purchase, more than ensuring that the citizens receive exactly the help they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132514	No. I think it is more creepy that the Socialist People's Party wants to put older people at a disadvantage instead of really allowing them to choose freely. I simply see no problem in the fact that there are some nursing homes offering it. You can easily have an ordinary hair wash, where there is a little hair massage, and then you can buy further. It may also be if you go to the hairdresser and you need a hair cure, then you also get an additional scalp massage. I simply see no problem in making this possible. I think it is more problematic that the Socialist People's Party seems to prefer to tie citizens to a worse service. Because we can see that the system is not working as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132550	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132552	I know a lot of older people who think that the hair should be washed properly when it is washed, and that it also means that you actually get hair massage, but who can't necessarily afford to buy this extra hair wash. Let me ask in another way: does New Citizens also believe that it is reasonable for the citizen himself to have to pay for a bath more than once a week?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132615	So, as a starting point, I think that everything the rapporteur has just mentioned is precisely proof that the system is not working. For why is it that you feel the need to buy things? Well, that's because you don't get it from the amount of money that is currently being posted into the municipalities and that we can just see goes to seemingly also anything other than that which is like nuclear welfare. So I certainly do not want to attack the fact that there are some people, such as private nursing homes, who would like to make purchase benefits for those who live there so that they can get these benefits. I could never dream of getting in the way of that. However, I would rather attack the system which is completely wrong and where the money does not follow the individual elderly today. And that is what we want in the New Citizens' Party that money follows the individual elderly, for they can choose for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132700	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132701	Thank you for that and also thank the rapporteur for the positive reception of the motion for a resolution. I am very pleased that in the case of the new citizens, just as in the case of us in the Left, we also want all the elderly to have a real free choice. I am also very pleased that we seem to be able to find each other around home-care centres and the possibility that more elderly people, including those in nursing homes, will have to have more choice. So I just want to sign for the very positive approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132733	Thank you. We certainly share that and there is really much to look at in the area of the elderly in relation to doing it much better than it is today. We are always ready to work together on this, and that includes, among other things, that. a genuinely free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132745	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132747	Thank you. I know that the rapporteur would like to have some questions, and that is why I get a little worried when we talk about the area of the elderly and you see that New Citizens want savings in the form of tax cuts of 100 billion. kr. Tax relief can be good enough, but we also have, it has to be said, a dignified care for the elderly that we have to take care of. And we must at least ensure that our welfare system works. So I get a little worried: How much does New Citizen think older people should pay for their own care? And in relation to the debate we are having here today: does the rapporteur not think that it is a slippery path, for example, that one should be able to do so. Is it necessary to insure ourselves in order to have proper and dignified care for the elderly, what we have seen, in other words, in relation to insurance? And does the rapporteur not think that it should be the case that, as a society, we must, as a starting point, ensure that the elderly citizens who have built up our society receive decent care for the elderly without having to pull their wallets out of their pockets?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132856	Yes, I am very much in agreement with the rapporteur on that. Now I shall not go into the eternal debate on the economic issue. It just says in two different places: the Danish People's Party has a socialist economic policy and we have a bourgeois economic policy. So it's just different, and of course DF has changed its position since the late 1990s. That's the way it is. But I would like to say in more detail, as I said to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, that I think this is a sign that the system is not working. So I would rather look at changing the system, and that is exactly what we are proposing here. So that the money follows the individual elderly, so that you really have a free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132935	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517132937	Okay. The Danish People's Party will ensure a dignified and proper treatment for the elderly. We want to ensure good and dignified care for the elderly, and in fact we also want to ensure that we have at least some good standards in a welfare society such as Denmark, without having to pull up, you might say, own funds. After all, we are creating an A and B team in relation to those who have an ordinary national pension. And there I can only note that New Citizens will cut hundreds of billions on the system we have today. That money must come from somewhere, and it will then go beyond our welfare societies and our elderly, if you can say you give such a significant amount of tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133018	I am glad to recall when the Danish People's Party was a bourgeois party with a real bourgeois economic policy. Unfortunately, that is no longer the case. I have to say that with shame. No, it is not about cutting back on older people when we want there to be a smaller public sector and the money to really go to core welfare. It is certainly not about the elderly not having the best conditions when we say that the Danes should be allowed to keep much more of their own money. It's just quite ordinary bourgeois snuff. But that the money should follow the individual elderly is one hundred percent in favour, that is, of the elderly having proper conditions. But we are not going to be against the fact that there are some places where you offer something extra.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133056	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. The Liberal Alliance is not present, nor are the Christian Democrats. Then we turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133117	Thank you for that, President. With the motion for a resolution here, the Left proposes that independent older counsellors be associated with the elderly, who are searched for a service that forms part of a free choice system. The Left wants older citizens to have the opportunity to make a free, informed and independent choice among the services that form part of a free choice area. People are different and have life through different preferences. The world is not black and white; what is good for one can be a clear opt-out for the other. And we as a society must respect that: that we as people thrive in different environments and with different people around us. Therefore, when we design our lives, we must have the opportunity to choose what suits us best. Fortunately, we have a number of free choice arrangements, including in the area of the elderly. Older people can choose between municipal and private actors, including: in the area of care and care and food service. But freedom of choice and freedom of choice are under pressure. Let me give you an example: last year, Danish Industry presented an analysis which shows that only nearly one in three nursing homes know that they have a free choice between a municipal and a private player when the last home, a nursing home, is to be chosen. It is a drop of 7 percentage points since 2017, and it is in itself sad that fewer people know about the free choice rights and opportunities that they legally have. Even more sad is it when we read in the same analysis that there is an increase in the number of elderly people who believe that free choice in nursing homes or nursing homes is important or very important compared to 2017. For in 2017, about 60% felt. of the elderly that it was important or very important with the possibility of free choice and nursing home or residence. By 2020, the figure had risen to 82%, where the elderly surveyed find the system of free choice in nursing homes and nursing homes important or very important. And that is significant when we see an increase of 23 percentage points. I think we should help our older people so that more people know what free choice there is. Because it's a huge inequality factor when some know something and others don't. And here comes an independent elder counselor who can guide our elders and their relatives to choose exactly the supplier that fits best. Because it is a huge paradox that we know that it means something to our elderly, that there is something to choose from and that choice means something, while fewer elderly people really know that they actually have the right to choose the care home that is best suited to the individual, if we are to keep that example. We have to do better than that. The position of the Left is clear: Older people are entitled to care for the elderly, where both dignity, care and empathy are a natural part of everyday life. We believe that, if we increase awareness of the free choice system, self-determination, equality and, above all, health will be strengthened. And let me say straight away that it is not crucial for us whether we choose a private or a public offer, but it is crucial that there is something to choose from. That is why we are now proposing a pilot project in which an independent elder counsellor can help to create an overview for the individual. And it could well be a cross-municipal elder counsellor who can provide an overview, both for the individual and also for the relatives. We must safeguard the welfare contract of which we are all part, and we do so, among other things. by ensuring that even more can take active choices and opt-outs. Some may ask for price and finance. The Left proposes that 50 million be set aside. kr. on the pilot project, and I hope that the parties of the Danish Parliament will consider, in particular, those who have clearly said no, considering voting in favour of the proposal, so that our elderly can be better equipped in the future to inform themselves of the many free choice options that exist. Freedom of choice is a social benefit that must be enjoyed by all the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133529	There is a question from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133537	Thank you. And also thank you for your commitment, which I also praised from the platform. I am just wondering about the proposal, because when the Left says that there is too little knowledge of free-care homes, for example, I would say that the previous government has just decided to introduce this nursing home portal, I think it is called, to be quite accurate. And I have actually tried, also as a prelude to this proposal today, to do a search on it. Well, what exactly does it look like? Where's the information about what kind of options I have? And I just have to confess that the question of price, for example, is virtually non-existent when you look at the Nursing Home Survey. If it is really so important and so difficult to recruit elderly people into private nursing homes, why not use such a tool which is completely freely available to all care homes managers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133640	In fact, I am standing here and wondering whether the portal was a common stake pool project or whether it was a clear VLAK priority I do not actually remember that. And it doesn't matter whether it was one or the other. In any case, it can be said that regardless of what, the nursing home portal was, what to say, an attempt that the elderly should have better opportunities to orient themselves when they had to choose a nursing home. And it wasn't about private or public, but it was about having better opportunities to orient oneself. And it can be said that there may have the nursing home portal, perhaps not worked entirely as intended; there is still something to do. But that does not change the fact that the elderly are still in doubt about what they really are able to choose from what is of free choice. We have a job to do there, and that is why the Left has put forward a proposal in view of the fact that it could be intercommunal older counsellors who could inform the elderly, but also their relatives, about the opportunities that exist, for example. the last dwelling must be chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133756	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133758	But I think that's exactly why we made the nursing home portal; that's why it was an attempt to give citizens information about what was possible if you were to have a foster home. In reality, the problem is that one rarely gets the accommodation one wants when the need arises, because it has to be available. So how many vacant dwellings can the Left afford to stand empty and wait for someone to choose them for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133829	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133830	Well, what matters to us in the Left is that there is something to choose from. And right now it is not a discussion that there is empty housing right now that there is a discussion that, for example, there is a debate. in about half of the country's municipalities are only one type of nursing homes to choose from, namely the municipal. And that's where we want to go, and I certainly don't want to hide that we want to have a free nursing home in all municipalities, so that all elderly people really have a free choice. And that is because we in the Left believe that it is a huge factor of inequality when only a few really have something to choose from, while others do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133905	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. And I'm gonna have to ask you to get drunk up here. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517133938	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517134006	The motion for a resolution here proposes requiring the government to set up a working group to investigate the possibility of temporarily excluding or denying a person the right to work in the social field if the person is under reasonable suspicion or accused of having committed an act of violence or other gross negligence in the course of the work. The reason for the proposal is a specific case of an employee in a settlement who was accused of violence against a resident and who subsequently continued to work in the social field without the new workplace being familiar with the person's history. He was subsequently sentenced to 40 days in jail and also deprived of the right to work in care for 3 years. I fully share the intention of the authors of the motion for a resolution that, as a resident or user of a social offer, we should be able to feel safe and secure and that we should not in any way accept violence, threatening or degrading behaviour against our vulnerable citizens, certainly not from the staff entrusted with the task of helping and caring for them. Although I share the concerns and intentions of the proposers, the government cannot support the resolution because we believe that we already have different safeguards where the same objective is achieved in different ways. A case such as the one mentioned must not be repeated, but if it does happen, one of the first things that can and should be done as a management is, of course, to disfellowship the employee from the workplace, so that the employment relationship ends immediately and so that he no longer has contact with the citizen. This is an effective approach, and it was also done in the case in question. In addition, we have various safeguards to prevent the wrong people from being employed on social services. First of all, since 1 July 2020, it has been a legal requirement that the management of each offer obtains a criminal record prior to the appointment of staff in social services covered by the Social Protection Agency. The requirement includes both employees, temporary workers and managers. In addition, management has the opportunity to obtain recommendations and opinions from the person's previous workplace. Both obtaining a criminal record and obtaining recommendations from previous employers require the consent of the job seeker. If a job seeker does not want to give up a reference, it can in itself make the alarm bells ring. The possibility of obtaining references from former employers is, I believe, a long way from being able to act as a safeguard against hiring the wrong people, especially when they have not been convicted of a criminal offence, which would not be seen by the criminal record. It is also apparent from the websites of several municipalities that they obtain references with prior informed consent. I believe that the management has a clear interest in examining the history of the job seeker in question, so that they have the best possible staff to carry out the task in the offer and to prevent incidents of violence or equivalent. I also believe that there can be no doubt in the social sphere that a great deal of responsibility has been placed on individual management in the offers of hiring staff. I expect you as a leader to take on that responsibility so that you get the right employees in. To go back to where I started, I am pleased that the proposers share the concern for our vulnerable children, young people and adults and people with disabilities, and that we all want them to have a safe everyday life with the help and support they need. This is an agenda which the government is very concerned about. However, I do not believe that we will solve the problem, as the specific case showed, by setting up a working group to examine the possibility of temporarily excluding or denying a person the right to take up work in the social field. In the social field, we are already ahead of having demands to help the wrong people not be employed in social services, among other things. in the form of the requirement to obtain criminal records. At the same time, there is also the possibility of examining the history of job applicants, which I would strongly urge the individual local management to make use of. Then, of course, you are innocent until proven otherwise, and that is why we must generally be cautious about depriving someone of the right to work while being accused of criminal law. In that case, a management will be able to expel the person from the place, as happened in the particular case. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517134423	There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517134429	Thank you. After all, it is not the case that we want to deprive the employee of his livelihood without a very strong presumption that he is a threat to the safety of the residents. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this matter. It is possible to do so in the health sector today, and we actually saw this in the documentary which was about a nurse, but it cannot be done in the same way in the social field. So is it not the case that the Minister believes that socially disadvantaged citizens are worth less than those in the health sector? The minister is talking about obtaining criminal records; it is something that the Danish People's Party has been fighting for many years to spread out, so it is not only in relation to those who are subject to the Social Protection Agency, but that it applies in general. But it cannot prove anything in relation to such a specific case here; neither can expulsion. It turns out that the employee continued to work in the profession, although there were video material which documents the violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517134537	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517134538	I do not believe that employees in the social field are worth less than employees in any other area. There are, after all, different arrangements for different occupational groups. Some are authorized, some are not, and it is true that you have these discussions from time to time in relation to the various professional groups. It is also true, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party points out, that it is something relatively new that there are legal requirements for obtaining a criminal record when new employees are recruited in the social field. So things have happened in that area. Then I would just like to say that you have a very great responsibility, both when working with our most vulnerable citizens, and also when you are the leader of an offer for the most vulnerable citizens, and that is why you should of course be interested in what kind of employees you hire and obtain references. I do not know the specific case as detailed as it seems that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party did, but if references had been obtained from previous employers, it would have been found that there was therefore a pending case of violence against an employee. It would then have been possible, as a leader, to take this into account in relation to whom you chose to fill that position.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517134645	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517134648	But is the Minister sure of that, because there is something called confidentiality? Is the Minister sure that when a manager is called and a specific employee is asked, can the manager tell us that he is no longer employed there because she is actually accused of violence? Can the leader do that? Can the leader tell someone else? Now the Minister is talking about the fact that you are innocent until proven otherwise; I think there is something about confidentiality here, but the Minister can explain that, because I am not really sure that you can as a leader. Therefore, you may not always be able to get the most truthful information from a former leader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517134728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517134729	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is a good thing, and I am also glad that you can see it on the websites of several municipalities, that they stress that they are obtaining references with consent and intend to do so on people they want to hire in posts, for example. in the social field. If you have an applicant who will not give it consent, then I think that should make the alarm bells ring. Why wouldn't he? And, of course, we should not disclose information which is not to be fundamentally used. In committee we can try to define what we can say and what we cannot say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517134810	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more questions. The first in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517134847	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor. We are now going to discuss a proposal to set up a working group to investigate the possibility of temporarily excluding a person from or denying a person the right to take up work in the social field by reason of suspicion of gross negligence towards a physically or mentally socially exposed citizen. Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the premise of the motion for a resolution: if you live in a place of residence, you must be able to feel safe and that you must also be able to feel quite safe in your own home. It is therefore also quite awful, and certainly not in order, that a person who is employed and entrusted with the task of taking care of and providing support and care for our most vulnerable citizens will be able to commit violence against them. These citizens are among those who are most dependent on the community's help. It is therefore also important that they have confidence in the employees who look after them and care for them. When they are exposed to violence, threats or humiliating experiences from those very employees, we have to say that this is a clear failure of care, and that is therefore not acceptable either. We need to focus on quality in the social field, and I have no doubt that when we hear some of those stories in this Chamber, we will have a stomach ache and we will be angry and angry. Because you should not be subjected to violence or threats or degrading treatment. It's not okay. If that happens, of course action must be taken, and one of the first things to do as management is, of course, to expel the employee from the workplace, so that the employment relationship immediately ceases. In addition, as local management in the recruitment of its staff, it is also necessary to examine whether there is a problematic history of the applicant. You are therefore obliged both ways, both when you have an employee you say not to, when you are called, but also to check, when you hire an employee, what a history you have, i.e. whether it is a good employee you hire. Of course, if an employee has a problematic history, he should not be hired. There must therefore be a clear expectation that, as a local manager, you can assume responsibility for the recruitment of your staff. Another protection that already exists to prevent the wrong people from being employed on social services is that the social offer is covered by the Social Protection Agency. There is an obligation here to obtain a criminal record before hiring staff, but because the requirement has only been in force since July last year, the real effect will only be seen later. We have also helped to strengthen the social inspectorate and ensure that greater checks can now be made of the professionalism that exists. I think that is actually quite important when we talk about the work of the Social Protection Agency. In conclusion, I can also say in the context of the working group set up in the care of the elderly to ensure tools to support the failure to get stumbled vessels in, that it will be interesting to follow its work. Thus, there are several types of protection to protect socially vulnerable citizens from degrading or violent behaviour. One of the last things I would like to say, before I have to say to the proposers, that the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal, is that some of what we have discussed in general in the social field has been an increase in quality and that staff and local authorities have been under pressure and that together we need to look very carefully at what empathy and professionalism we need in the social field. For empathy, good leadership and enough hands are central to being able to carry out the task properly and show care and respect for the people you are dealing with. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517135301	There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517135305	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. The rapporteur does not recognise that the protection we have today is not working optimally, because we can see an example of this in that an employee is expelled from a job, but then continues to work within the profession. We have seen it in home care, and we have also seen it in 24-hour accommodations and accommodations and other things. There have simply been examples. So if everything that the rapporteur says and talks about on the platform worked in practice today, we would not see these examples, then there would be no examples, so there are simply some gaps today in this area, and we are obliged, I think, to remedy that. And what the rapporteur says about public criminal records, we have fought for in the Danish People's Party, but the fact is that private suppliers are not obliged to obtain public criminal records, i.e. those who provide private care for the municipalities, it is a 'can' clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517135408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517135410	I would actually like to say that I think the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution delivered a proper debate on what we have done. In other words, there has been no doubt whatsoever that this government has wanted the most socially vulnerable. I just have to say that it has been a huge task, together with the government and the support parties, to take up a social effort which has been under pressure, which has been challenged, and this is therefore about raising the overall quality, so I am not buying the premise. This is about investing enough in welfare and investing enough in quality and making sure that that control is then also done, and that is why we have raised the quality of the Social Protection Agency. Are we done? I do not think we are, because public welfare is super-pressed, we have to look at what quality it is, and among other things. support it in relation to a knowledge limitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517135508	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517135510	It's not a either-or, it's a boat-and. I have to say that it is just described in the article "Indicted persons in the social field can move from job to job," Randers Amtsavis, on 23 January 2021, which I refer to in the motion for a resolution, how the accused person can freely continue to work in another position in the social field. So you can continue to work with some of the most vulnerable citizens in society, even if you are accused of committing gross violence against a person for whom you are employed to be a support teacher. Well, that's a problem, isn't it? We're gonna have to find a solution to that? That is why it would be ideal for a working group to shed light on the advantages and disadvantages.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517135548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517135549	One of the things we can see when employees are being pressured is that it is about not having enough understanding and knowledge, and it is so important that we increase the quality and knowledge in the social field. In relation to what the rapporteur is asking, I think I have said very clearly that this does not relieve the manager of management responsibility, even if the references that are needed need to be obtained. It actually takes quite a lot to work in the social field, and I think we really should put a thick line on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517135621	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Bjerre, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517135645	Thank you. When I read stories like those that have been in the press about violence against less developed residents on social offers, well, it offends me, just as it offends my party. It is this kind of lack of empathy and decency, yes, basically dumbness, which is helping to dissuade our society. If you are given the responsibility of caring for and caring for some of the weakest in society, there is a special responsibility. It is a responsibility for someone who is much weaker and much more exposed than you are, and that must be taken seriously. And if you live in a social habitat or you are a relative of someone who does so, you should be able to be confident that the staff you meet are aware of their responsibility. Those who abuse the weakest in society and who neglect their responsibilities must be stopped, they must be reported to the police, and if they are found guilty, they must be punished, and if they are punished for violence against a citizen or for gross negligence towards a citizen, they must not, of course, work in the social field again. However, this proposal is about people who are suspected or accused, i.e. people who have not yet been convicted of anything. The proposers want people who are suspected or accused of crimes against the citizens for whom they are responsible to be deprived of the right to take up work in the social field. That makes me worried about legal certainty. I believe that the proposal puts an end to the principle of innocence until proven otherwise. For the Left, it is absolutely fundamental that we uphold legal certainty, and legal certainty also applies to people accused of abominable crimes. That is why the Left cannot support the proposal as it stands here. If an employee is charged with violence against a citizen, or if he has been grossly negligent to a citizen, the Left naturally considers that his or her leader is acting in accordance with it. In fact, I think it is very natural for an employee to be exempted from profit or expelled from his manager until the case is closed. And the fact is that this possibility already exists today as a result of the right of management. In conclusion, I also think it is necessary to pay tribute to the country's social educators and social and health assistants, not to mention their other colleagues in the social field. I know that most of the country's social workers are skilled and go to work with the desire to make a difference for citizens. I think that is quite important to remember when we have this debate. Our debate today is merely about weeding out into the stingy vessels that are, and those people should not, of course, work in this area when it has been demonstrated in the courts that they have committed violence against a citizen or committed gross negligence. This is in everyone's interest, not least for their capable and responsible colleagues. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140000	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140002	Thanks for the speech. I fully agree that there are a great many good employees, both in the care and care sectors, but also in the health sector. But this is just about some of the stumbled vessels that are continuing to work in this area and that shouldn't be working in this area. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left on something; it is a working group, and I understand the principle of innocence until proven otherwise. But now it is the case that, in the health field, staff can be prevented from working for a temporary period if someone poses a danger to the safety of patients. So why is it that the Left does not want anything similar in the social field? I think that the rapporteur of the Left agrees that the socially vulnerable, that is to say the citizens of the social sphere, are of no less value than the citizens of the health sector, that is to say in the health sector. And this is about a working group that will shed light on the advantages and disadvantages, so why is it that the Left does not support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140110	No, that is, social residents are worth no less than patients in the field of health, but what matters to the Left is that legal certainty applies when you are convicted. It's the same thing with kids' certificates. Nor is there anything on the child certificate until you have been through a criminal case and have been convicted. And this proposal concerns only those who are accused or suspected. I think that there are many of the proposals which the rapporteur has mentioned that the working group should look at, which could be very sensible, but we must then look at that when they have been convicted and so it will also be a motion for a resolution on legal policy and not a social policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140151	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140153	Thank you. I do not know whether the rapporteur has seen the documentary that was about the nurse Christina, who has now been accused of a series of murders, one might well say where patients were given sleeping medicines. She wasn't indicted or convicted before. But does the rapporteur think that, when there is such suspicion as in that example, it should simply be possible to continue working in the field, that is, until one is convicted? Or does the rapporteur think that a solution should be found as to how to secure some of the most vulnerable people in one way or another in order to secure both?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140236	No, of course we should not be able to continue working in the social field or in the health sector if we deliberately neglect our work or commit serious violence, but the fact is that we already have those competences today. I therefore expect the manager to disfellowship the employee in question, who behaves that way. Those competences are already there today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140300	There are no more questions. Then we say thank you to the rapporteur and we will have to get the alcohol off again. The next rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140334	Thank you. I would just like to start by thanking Mrs Bjerre for her greeting. I myself am a social educator and have worked in settlements, and it's really nice to get that recognition. I am quite sure that many of my colleagues are happy about that too, and it is also very important that we take it with us here today. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party also addresses a real enough problem. Cases in which employees engage in violence against a citizen should not take place during the period. The motion for a resolution proposes that, in such cases, the right to work in the social field should be temporarily withdrawn if there is a reasonable suspicion of serious negligence, and we in the SF oppose that. We see it as problematic that the proposal makes it possible for an accusation of violence to be deprived of the right to work, even if one does not yet know whether one is guilty or whether one is acquitted. Instead, we believe that the employer has a great responsibility to assess whether an employee is able to perform a task. It is a management responsibility, and there are a great many tools a management can use. Today, the managers already have a great responsibility to ensure that the employees are equipped for the job, and there must be among other things. criminal records are obtained when social services under the authority of the Social Inspectorate employ staff, temporary workers and managers. In addition, the manager has the opportunity to expel an employee if he or she has substantially failed to fulfil his or her employment relationship. However, we are really concerned about the possibility of authorisation. We would like to look at that more closely. SF considers that a withdrawal of the right to work on grounds of serious negligence is not a good solution. This will hit far too many people quite wrong, and that is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140532	There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140537	Thank you. Does the rapporteur recognise that there are challenges today and that we can read repeatedly in the newspapers' columns that there are challenges precisely in relation to the situation that, although some have been expelled, they can work in the trade, just somewhere else? So the tools that are today are simply not good enough to find these stingy tubs. And then we all agree that there are a lot of good employees. This is also about those who are not doing well enough and who I don't think should be in the profession. What can a working group do to illustrate its advantages and disadvantages? Because it is true, as the rapporteur says, that in the field of health there is authorisation, so it can be withdrawn, even temporarily, from it. You can't do that in this area. And it is also true in this area that it is not always useful to have a criminal record, even in this case, because it is not certain that anything has been done in the past. The rapporteur also knows that we in the Danish People's Party have fought too many times to prevent the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140642	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140643	I recognise that there are a great many very talented employees in the settlements. I recognise that every single time there is an attack on a citizen, it is a serious mistake and that it is quite awful when it happens. However, I would also like to know whether the questioner can recognise that quite often there are also unfounded accusations or various accusations, where there is really no cause, in relation to whether you are guilty. And it is not about getting away with it, but it is actually also about some employees having legal certainty. And I know that the Danish People's Party is very concerned about legal certainty, but legal certainty is also about the employee being properly treated and not being convicted until you are and that is why we are not on exactly this solution, but, as I say to the Danish People's Party, we would really like to continue working on various solutions in this, and we think that an authorisation system could actually make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140755	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140755-2	Yes, we are quite ready to find solutions, and we have actually been fighting for this for quite a long time in this area, both in making proposals on public criminal records, but also in relation to the problem that exists. This isn't about the good employees. This is about a few stingy vessels that we need to stop and that aren't supposed to be in this class. As far as legal certainty is concerned, that is true, but when there is a video of violence, I really do not think that we should continue to be able to use violence against others. And if we look at health, there are only other rules for them today than there are in the social field, so they are not protected in the same way as they are under the health regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140837	It is true that, in relation to employees who commit abuse, we must stop it. But the problem is a little that if we want to run everything in here from Christiansborg, we will have policies for the few that go beyond most. And there is therefore a problem with employees who are being accused of a lot of things. Where is their legal certainty? After all, it is also a huge violation and disaster for the individual employee if one is simply expelled on the basis of suspicion and the person concerned has actually done nothing. So we do not think this is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140914	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, who is ready, is Mr. Henrik Vinther, Radical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517140933	Thank you. As an employee in every context where you are responsible for other people, you are entrusted with a task that is more than the responsibility for a specific task, but also with a task that extends beyond yourself and thereby also for the image you draw of the work you have and the field you are in. Therefore, we have concrete laws and regulations that allow you to be removed from the order for a shorter or longer period of time, and that as a manager here in the public sector you are obliged to take good references when hiring new employees. At the same time, it is a safety net, where you as a manager have the tools to ensure that you have employees who are an adult or who have turned out to be an adult, because there is a first time for everything, and then you have to be able to take action, also against bad behaviour and negligence when you see it. Because it's probably about the individual employee and the responsibility you each have for conscientiously solving your task, but it's also about the management of employees, that is to say as manager to be close enough to the task and to be able to give advice and sparring and take action if not the behavior is in order. The solution is not further punishment here by taking action on suspicion alone, but good management, the development of a good working environment and thus the application of the current rules, and we cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141049	Thank you. And there are questions. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141053	In other words, this proposal is about setting up a working group which can shed light on this and suggest how we can sort of close the gap with employees who continue to work in the social field but who are not supposed to be in the social field, i.e. employees such as those in this particular case, which is the example of the motion for a resolution, who have committed violence against one of the residents whom she should take care of. So what is it that is so much opposed by the Radical Left? I think it might be appropriate to refer to the previous debate I had with Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk; now I have to remember the last name and all the names here that the working group came to the conclusion that an authorisation was the right solution. However, it would not even help to set up a working group across the Resort Ministries, which could, as it were, offer solutions in order to ensure legal certainty, one might say, or at least to meet the needs of residents, so that they did not continue to be subjected to violence or any other by the same employee who was expelled from one place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141206	Yes, thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141207	I'm not sure about anything except that there might have been a question in the middle, but I'm trying to deduce it myself. I mean, as a leader, you are responsible for the ability of the employees you have at your place of work to do the job. And one of the most important tasks you have is to hire someone and to ensure that they have good references and ensure that the people you take in have nothing on your conscience that does not belong in the context in which you are. There are labour law sanctions. You can expel people from their jobs if they don't do the job properly. And there is also the possibility of putting people out of the order in the current legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141237	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141238	I know there is. But what is the point of having expelled one employee, and then that employee can go to either a private supplier, that is, a private company, or somewhere else and work in the trade, so that he can work as a substitute worker or some other, despite being expelled for violence at one workplace? That's what's actually going on. I would just like to ask the radical rapporteur: what does one have against a working group which has to find some good solutions for us in the Folketing in order to get rid of this so that we do not see these matters forward-looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141313	I have nothing against working groups. I have a problem with saying, as a starting point, that if you are suspected of having done something wrong, you can be put off the order. And that is the starting point for the proposal we are discussing here. Take references! It is the safest tool at all if you want to hire the right people. Anyone who is employed in a private or public company as a manager will know that this is the best way to do it. Everything else is sticking people in the eye; it doesn't solve anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141336	Then we thank the rapporteur, and since the Enhedslisten is not present, it is now Mr. Mads Andersen as rapporteur for Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141354	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the proposal. I am filling in today for Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, who is still recovering from illness. I would like to start by thanking you for your intention with the proposal and this focus being put on it. There must always be a full focus on the professionalism of our employees in our social offerings and that loyalty to the well-being of the vulnerable citizens in our offer is in order. The management bears a huge responsibility here, as several others have also mentioned, to ensure that the right employees are employed in the offers and that they handle things as they should. Of course, we expect the leaders to do the same, and I have heard a number of others say the same from the platform. I would like to put it this way: the proposal is, after all, about an examination of a working party that there are several of the elements of the proposal here, which is in fact exciting enough to discuss, but I do not know whether I think that time should necessarily be spent on a working group examining it. In fact, the jumping point for us here, as several others have also mentioned, is that you are innocent until proven otherwise, and that is, of course, also true in this area. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141510	There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141513	Thank you. We were in complete doubt whether this was the first time the rapporteur was on the floor, but I do not think it is. No, I'm glad there was a little panic here. But I would like to hear the rapporteur from Conservatives what will then be done. Well, we have had the debate today in relation to this, and in terms of health it can be done. There are other rules there. But we kind of have some holes in this area. When there is an employee who has been expelled on the basis of violence, how will it be ensured that he cannot continue to violence against others, in other words continue in the profession, just at another workplace? The fact is, and I hope the rapporteur has also read this out a little bit, that in the examples that we can read in the press and the examples that have been around, it is at the expense of vulnerable and vulnerable citizens that these stumbled vessels continue to work in the field. So what will Conservatives do to stop it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141617	My career as social rapporteur can now be measured at about an hour's time, and that is why, of course, there is also a lot of history about the cases that I may not be as much into as Mrs Karina Adsbøl. However, I would say that this is exciting enough with an authorisation model, and we have already proposed it ourselves in other areas. I think that would be an exciting suggestion to bring to the table, more than just a working group to look at it. But in general, this is also about us as a society saying, or emphasising that the management out there should focus on this, about how the employees behave during their working day, and if there are any criticisms, it should be a focus area for the manager.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141708	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141710	That's interesting. Well, congratulations on the rapporteur's position. I look forward to working together in this area. What I get a little confused about is that the rapporteur says that with an authorisation system it sounds interesting and that you want to take part in looking at it, but that means, of course, if you should listen to what Mrs Bjerre, the rapporteur of the Left, said that you can then have your authorisation withdrawn before you have been convicted. So, what's the difference, compared to having a working group set up, so that we can clarify this area, its advantages and its disadvantages? If it is an authorization system that is needed, that is what it will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141746	Thank you. I don't know how long I get to be a social rapporteur, but you too. So far, it's probably only a few more hours. I would say that in relation to this licensing model it could certainly be something that could come as a specific proposal; then I think it is worth discussing. However, in relation to this work group, I would like to say that I come from the municipal political world that all these working groups often and many times can also help to slow things down and slow things down in the decision-making process, and then I might think that this model was interesting to have discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141818	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141821	Congratulations on the rapporteur's work. I think the rapporteur will see that when he steps down from the platform and he did quite well, you cannot hear that this is the first time he will miss it, because the social area is something that goes under your skin. Then I would like to say that I very much agree with the rapporteur's comment on the right of management. And then I would just like to say, and it is just as much to the President, that in my eagerness to talk about the area, I was forgetting to say that I should say hello from the Enhedslisten. So the rapporteur has the support of both the Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten. So congratulations on a really nice speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141906	Thank you. I will not delay the debate any further. Now it was most of all a comment. I'd say I've already been thrown into it very directly, but if you can make more pennies on it, you can finally... No, I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141924	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517141947	Thank you. It was a real nightmare that an elderly lady with dementia was exposed to in a nursing home in Elsinore. In English, she was threatened and humiliated by a sosu helper. Imagine how frightened and confused this older lady must have been when the male sosu-helper overwhelmed her with insults in a foreign language to her. And now I will quote, and I hope the President will bear that in mind. The Sosu helper said, among other things:: What the hell do you want? Stupid bitch, I'm gonna kick your ass. This is how the sosu helper said, among other things. to the resident of the nursing home. Of course it is called a single matter, but by now we have just seen a lot of individual cases. There is a pattern of a system that is fundamentally wrong with. Unfortunately, in our so-called welfare society, we have had an older sector that is plagued by too many stumbled vessels. And we also see examples from the social area. That is why we are here today. The Sosu aide was expelled and reported to the police, and that is a start, but how do we ensure that he does not get reinstated in a similar position in another municipality? That is why I called ex-elderly Minister Magnus Heunicke in consultation, where I just wanted answers to what he would do to ensure that employees who threaten or humiliate residents cannot get work anywhere else in the older sector. And that, of course, is also true in the social field. Unfortunately, if we do not intervene, there is a real danger that the fired person will be able to work elsewhere, because, as you know, there is a lack of work, among other things. most nursing homes labour force. He and other stalled vessels can therefore easily get employment in other municipalities, as his identity is not known. And it is a very good bourgeois principle that you are innocent until proven otherwise, and that principle we pay tribute to in New Citizens, but it makes sense to have a closer look at this area. We do not necessarily agree with the ways in which this motion for a resolution appears, but I hope that a report can be drawn up, for example. about how we're gonna look into how we're gonna protect ourselves against these stingy vessels. It is therefore a problem not only in the area of the elderly but also in the social field. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517142210	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. The Liberal Alliance is not present, nor are the Christian Democrats, so now it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517142237	Thank you for that, President. In the Danish People's Party, we want a working group to be set up to investigate the possibility of temporarily excluding or denying a person the right to work in the social field. The proposal has been made on the basis of a creepy case from 2020 when an employee at a North Jutland settlement was charged with beating a heavily devel oped resident. The employee was employed as a support teacher on a special educational residence offer for adults, and the employee was charged with beating the resident while the resident was hospitalized. The whole incident was videotaped and there was therefore no particular uncertainty associated with the charge. Nevertheless, the defendant has been free to continue working in the social field, just somewhere else. The new employer has no opportunity to know about the employee's history until the employee has received a verdict, and even then it is not certain that the employer will ever learn that the employee has a verdict and for what he has been convicted. In the Danish People's Party, we do not think it is right that an employee who has committed violence against one of society's most vulnerable and vulnerable citizens should be able to proceed to a new workplace and a new employer who does not know about the employee's past. In the field of health, health professionals may temporarily be deprived of their authorisation if they are considered to be a risk to patient safety, even if no judgment has yet been handed down. Something similar should be the case in the social field, so that we do not run the risk that an employee who is clearly a danger to the citizens with whom he or she works can simply continue his or her working life in the social field elsewhere in the country. Paragraphs 78 and 79 of the Criminal Code provide for a certain degree of freedom to exclude an employee from engaging in certain activities if they have received a judgment in respect of a situation which makes there an obvious danger of abuse of the post or profession. There is section 79 of the Criminal Code. 4, also the possibility of being excluded from the exercise of activities in this field until the case is finally settled. The problem with paragraphs 78 and 79 is that they require a judgment to be delivered and the problem with paragraphs 78 and 79 is that they require a judgment to be delivered. 4 of Paragraph 79 states that the provision must be applied restrictively so that it is very difficult to use it in practice. In the specific case of the employee who struck the resident, the prosecution considered that the provision of Paragraph 79 (1) of the Civil Code was not applicable. 4, could not be used even if the violence was recorded on video, and it is almost difficult to imagine a case where there was better evidence that an employee had committed violence against a resident. So, if the provision of Paragraph 79 of the Criminal Code... 4, cannot be used in such a case, we as a society need to look at how we can ensure that employees can be temporarily excluded from working in the social field if there is a reasonable suspicion that the individual employee has committed violence or gross negligence towards a physically or mentally exposed citizen. It may also take a long time for a case to be settled in court, and it is not fair to expose our socially vulnerable citizens to the risk that an employee accused of violence against another resident can just get work elsewhere in the social area. That is why we in the Danish People's Party propose that the Minister, with the assistance of other ministries, set up a working group to examine the possibilities and recommendations for arrangements to temporarily exclude or deny a person the right to be employed in other positions in the social field if there is a reasonable suspicion that he or she has committed violence or gross negligence towards a physically or mentally socially exposed citizen. And, of course, the intention is that this should apply to employees in the social field who are in direct contact with socially vulnerable citizens with physical and psychological impairments, including home care, in institutions, in communities of residence and similar places. We in the Danish People's Party have described some solutions that the working group can include in its study, but we think it is important to find the best possible solution, so that the solutions we have described should not in any way bind the working group or take precedence over other good solutions. And we then believe that the outcome of the working group should be presented to the parties of the Folketing by 1 December 2021 and, precisely on this basis, form the basis for some negotiations among the rapporteurs. However, I am sorry to say that there will not be any support for this, and I am very incomprehensible about this, precisely in the light of all the examples we have seen. I think it is very good that the majority of our staff working in the care and care sector are skilled and respectful employees who have empathy and heart in the right place, and these are not the ones that this proposal is about. But every time we have to have a debate in this Parliament, which is about the broken vessels, it is always, I think, a little difficult for many of the other social rapporteurs. Because it is precisely the stingy vessels it is about, and New Citizens said it very well from the platform, and we all remember the ugly, ugly episode where the demented woman was subjected to a very, very violent and ugly way. We need to think about what kind of staff we want to take care of for some of the most vulnerable and vulnerable citizens, and now several rapporteurs here today have said that the system we have is good enough. However, I do not feel at all that it is good enough when we can see that our vulnerable citizens are still failing, that stray vessels continue their work. In the Danish People's Party, we have fought to make it compulsory for both private and public suppliers to obtain public criminal records. This has been achieved in some of the social areas, in other words, precisely where the social inspectorate is supervising. However, it is the case that you can then be employed by a private supplier, and private suppliers are not obliged to obtain public criminal records. Nor is there any provision in the municipalities for obtaining public criminal records, but that is something they can do. So there is a need to prioritise this area and ensure that the vulnerable and vulnerable citizens who need help are not let down, and if we can do anything on the part of the Folketing in any way whatsoever, then I think we should solve it. We have put forward many proposals and one more in order to find a solution in this area, because we think it is so important, precisely because we can see that massive failures are taking place today. I can then say, if I count the mandates, that many people have spoken very strongly in favour of an authorisation system, and that is why I think that we in the committee should continue to work for an authorisation system. Well, we could make a report based on this proposal, which provided for the government to find a solution to the authorization. However, I look forward to the further work of the committee and would certainly like to thank New Citizens for their support for the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517143017	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517143038	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Health and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517143101	The motion for a resolution here sets out some principles for the estimation of cases of association which the proposers believe will lead to better co-decision and bring Danish law into line with the conventions. The aim of the proposal is to put an end to the harassment of cooperation, which means that some parents do not see their children. Let me state straight away that I fully agree with the underlying intention. It is quite unacceptable if a parent for no reason prevents the child from seeing the other parent. Unless there is a really good reason why the other parent should not be a part of the child's life. be because the parent is convicted of perilous crime... then it is clearly best for children to have good and close contact with both their parents. Having said that, the government cannot support the proposal. We cannot do this because the proposal focuses on the right of parents rather than on what is most important, namely the child. The comments on the proposal begin with the view that the right of parents to associate with their children must be regarded as one of the most fundamental human rights. I agree, of course, that the most important thing for each parent is to be with his or her child and that the links between children and parents are protected by the Convention on Human Rights, but there are therefore cases where consideration for the child must be given to the highest weight and where it may be necessary to interrupt the child's contact with one parent. One can hardly disagree with the proposers that the family and our children of the most precious thing we have. Too far, the vast majority of children, it is better for them to keep in touch with both parents when the family is broken up; there is no doubt about that. I note that the proposers are aware of the fact that the parental responsibility law states that the child's best should come first, but then it is also as if the proposal is based on a wrong premise. It should be noted, in fact, that the law does not specify which other considerations are factual and relevant when deciding on association and that the law and the administration of the proceedings are contrary to the conventions because other relevant and objective considerations are not taken into account. That's just not right. First of all, the parents' liability laws make it clear that the assessment of what is best for the child must always be based on an individual assessment of the individual child's circumstances. In fact, it is stated immediately that consideration must be given to whether one parent, without reasonable reason, hinders the association of the other parent. Secondly, the parental responsibility law directly states that contact between children and parents must be maintained when parents break up. This is, in fact, the very clear starting point of the law, and it is also the starting point from which the Family House and family law dealt with matters. This means that in the vast majority of cases dealt with by the authorities there is also provision for child-parental relations. But here we come to something very central that is very important to stick to, namely that it is about the child's When the new divorce system was agreed in 2019, all parties agreed that consideration for the child is paramount and must always come before all other considerations. It is now established in the law with seven-inch nails, and that is the consideration we must hold on to. One must be made of stone to avoid feeling for the children who are in trouble in the most conflicting divorce cases there, where parents have often fought for the child for years. There are cases where the conflict arises because of risk factors such as: abuse and violence, but there are also cases where it is difficult to see the cause of the conflict. The fact is that whatever lies behind the conflicts, in some cases they are so violent that children pay too high a price. Years ago, Children's Conditions interviewed a group of children who had all been through some very complex and conflicting divorces. In some cases, as I mentioned earlier, there were parents with abuse and mental illness, but there were also cases without such risk factors. One of the children told in the Children's Terms study that at the age of 5 she could say the State Administration and that the parents were through 13 different court cases • 13 court cases! These are precisely the children that the law and the system must protect and on which the new divorce system has the greatest focus. For me, it is not primarily a question of being suitable as parents or not, but, on the contrary, first of all, of what is best for the child, because unfortunately, the fact is that these children can be so insecure in the very heavy and worst conflicts that, in the worst cases, it can be best for the child, where the conflicts are greatest, that there is no association, even if both parents on paper are suitable to care for the child. Moreover, it is in full agreement with the conventions that we have signed and, when it is stipulated in the law that the child's relationship with parents must be maintained when the family breaks up, it is in accordance with the right to family life under the European Convention on Human Rights. At the same time, however, and in full compliance with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the law also states that the child's best should be given priority in all decisions concerning the child. It is a consideration that must be overwhelmed by all considerations. The authors themselves point out that this is reflected in practice by the European Court of Human Rights. Unfortunately, we have to deal with the fact that the reality is that there are parents harassing each other. It is the parents who create the conflicts, not the law or the authorities. That said, both the law and the authorities must tackle the harassment so that the child's relationship with both parents is maintained. Over time, therefore, there has also been a great deal of focus on cooperation harassment, and it has put its mark both in the law and in the way the system can intervene. For example, a legal amendment from 2015 with the so-called harassment package has. In the case of an association which is cancelled for no reason, an automatic right to compensation has been introduced in the House of Families. Cooperation harassment can also be a determining factor in which parents should have custody of the child, as expressed in the Supreme Court ruling referred to in the proposal. After years of harassment, a father was given custody because the court considered that he is the one of the parents who will clearly best be able to make a future relationship work so that the child can have good contact with both his parents. In conclusion, I do not see why the principles proposed would give better decisions or eliminate harassment. On the contrary, the proposal focuses too clearly on the right of parents, so that in some cases it becomes more important than the right of the child. In my view, this is the wrong way to go. If anyone asks me whose side I'm on, it will always be the child's side. We must therefore insist that consideration for the child is essential, as was also stated in the reform of the family law area, otherwise we will be abandoning children who are already vulnerable and squeezed by years of conflict between parents. The government cannot support this, which is why we cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517143814	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517143819	Thank you so much. I shall start by saying that I am a little disappointed that the Minister does not want to support this. It's a massive problem. I have spoken to a great many people, and there are many examples of one party starting a conflict and continuing to run the conflict. Finally, it is chosen to say that there is a conflict and we are not really assessing whose fault it is, but we consider that the association must be terminated because there is this conflict. Thus, the party who is not a resident parent loses the right to see his child. Does the Minister honestly not think that this is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517143903	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517143905	Thank you for signing the speech and also thank you for having the discussion here today on an important subject. Yes, but as I also went through in my speech, it can be decisively important that we have seen this most recently with the Supreme Court ruling • if one parent harasses the other for a long time. This may be important in relation to custody in this case, but also in relation to the setting of association. The most important thing is to protect the child and look after the child in the best way possible. And quite specifically, it can mean something and be given a weight if one parent deliberately opposes, harasses and does not try to make the cooperation work. For the best for the children, even in the difficult divorces, the adults are the adults and do what they can to drop the level of conflict and make the cooperation work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144003	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144004	Our resolution is precisely about the child's best interests, but it cannot stand alone. And it is so deeply, deeply unfair that one party can deliberately cause conflict and thereby gain revenge, I am almost tempted to say, over the child. It is not for the best interests of the child when the child loses contact with his parents. Now the minister mentions this Supreme Court ruling, but the father was given custody precisely because the mother was particularly unfit. So I don't really think you can use it in this respect. But does the Minister really not think that the current practice is simply wrong and misguided?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144044	No, that is to say, it has been made absolutely clear with seven-inch nails, even in the recent reform of the whole family law system, that it is the child's concern that is the most important, the most important and the centrepiece of the family law system that is supposed to protect children. The decisions also stress whether parents can cooperate on the child and what parent, as in the case of high conflict cases, can assume that both parents can be in the child's life. This is already the case in the legislation we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144117	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144122	Thank you for the floor. The Minister mentioned this here with the child's right of association, and the rapporteur, Mrs Mette Thiesen, was aware of the same thing, namely the discussion on the best interests of the child, together with the right of parents to their own children. Honestly, when I read and hear about the things that come in my inbox in particular and on my answering machine about this. If we are really going to be on the side of the children, what are we going to do about the children who want to see both parents? If it is in the child's best interests, it is then to be on the child's side that you say: It is really fine, little Lise, that you want to see both Mom and Dad, but Mom and Dad cannot find out, Mom and Dad are in a very, very bad conflict, and therefore it is best that you do not see your father or your mother. What's it like to be on the child's side?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144215	It is the clear starting point of the parental responsibility law that attempts are made to maintain the child's contact with both parents. That is the starting point for our legislation, and that is why, most recently with the harassment package, various legislative changes have been made to ensure it: meeting obligations, compensation and also contact-preservation. After all, you can apply for contact-preservation if parents cannot make it work and one parent risks losing contact with his child, and then it can be fixed. I have received some figures from the House of Families which show that last year alone over 2,000 decisions were taken on contact-preservation with an average processing time of 3.4 weeks, so there is, of course, a tool in our legislation here, if I understood the question put by the questioner correctly. Hopefully, everyone in this Chamber is running cold down their backs when you hear about the worst divorces, when adults are fighting each other with everything they have, and there are some children who get into a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144318	Thank you. Is there another comment? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144320	We know it has such great consequences for these kids who are pinned down in the system, and whether they are allowed to see both parents or not, it doesn't help anything in a conflict that has gone into a stalemate, to say that then we think the situation for you, little Lise, helps, and that this will ease if you don't get to see your father or your mother. The minister himself says that the starting point is fine, because the starting point is that you have to see both parents, because other things would also be completely disproportionate to discuss at all, but then we see these matters, and we see them out in the real world, where there are several cases where the opposite is the case anyway, namely that there is a parent who suddenly has not seen his child for a year and who is even told by the House of Family Rights that this is the way the world is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144404	I think we all get examples and can read on social media about very unhappy parents in divorce cases. It is my experience, moreover, that both mothers and fathers have landed in grueling divorces, violent conflicts where methods are resorted to that would not be used by adults who have children together. It's deep, deeply unhappy. We have put it in the law to protect the child at the very centre, and I think that is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144436	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144440	Thank you. The minister says the law is already that way. After all, Minister, we have seen that we have made legislation in here at Christiansborg, but that the legislation has not been implemented, or that at least the legislation that we have adopted in here is not being followed. We also saw this in the context of child reform legislation or not. It has to be said that there are quite a lot of people who find that there is discrimination in the House of Family Rights, including that there is no work on contact-preservation and that the processing times are too long. Now I know that the Minister spoke about the average length of proceedings, but it depends on different things. One case may take a long time, and others may take a short time. And in the meantime, what is also called parental alienation can happen. So the starting point must be that a child has a right to his mother and father. How will the Minister ensure that it is enforced?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144543	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144544	I think we have legislation that takes that into account as far as possible today. In other words, consideration for the child is essential when decisions are made on association. I think that is true. I do not know whether the question put by the questioner is that it is not the concern for the child that should be paramount, but the concern for one parent or another. It is basically the case that we have to give the child greater consideration, and we are obliged to do so by convention. After all, it is deeply, deeply unhappy, every time you have a divorce case, which is about a high conflict in which adult people take a child hostage in either way. That is why, together with the author's party, we have set up a new family law system where it is crucial to protect the child, to help the child and to try to equip parents to deal with their conflicts so that the child is not caught up in those conflicts during his childhood, but can have a calm and safe childhood. I think that's the right focus to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144649	Thank you. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144651	But we can see, Minister, that this is not how it works in practice. Regardless of whether there is legislation in this area, we can see that even if the child would like to have the right to his or her parents, unless this is a danger to the child, that is not what is happening in practice. We can actually see that many of these children are losing contact with a parent. So I just ask, how will the Minister guarantee the child's right to his parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144721	I do not know where the rapporteur has his findings. It is clear that in difficult conflicts there are quite a lot of unhappy situations and unhappy fates. So it is not the law or the authorities that create high-level conflict divorces, where people cannot find a way to reach agreement, cannot find a way to protect their children, but where children become the center of years of conflict. At the age of five, the girl I mentioned here was able to speak of the State Administration and saw that the parents had to go to court 13 times. This is quite awkward, which is why it is important for us to have legislation to deal with, for example. social Schikane. We have that today, and we have regard for the child as the crucial thing, and I think that is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144802	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. There are no more brief comments. Then we will have to get the alcohol off before we welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go, Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517144832	Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to start with what I forgot last time, namely to say that I should welcome from the Radical Left and from the Enhedslisten and say that, like the Social Democrats, they do not support the proposal. Then I would like to explain why the Social Democratic Party does not support the proposal. But that's the thing about just remembering everything. What is crucial for dealing with matters in the parental responsibility law must and must be the concern for the child. This consideration must be put above all other considerations, the best interests of the child must always be the most important and the most important. So the only sensible and balanced thing for all reasons must be. In social democracy we are always on the side of children, even when it can be at the expense of parents. This view was also expressed by the parties of the Folketing when last week we arrived at a very broad agreement, namely the children First, where consideration for the child is going to weigh even more heavily in relation to consideration for example. the biological parents in matters relating to placements. This is an agreement which, unfortunately, New Citizens are not part of. I agree with the proposers that the right to family life is a fundamental right in our society and that, of course, as a society, we have a duty to safeguard the close ties between children and their parents, but also between children and their siblings. This is also why the clear starting point of the parental responsibility law is that the child's relationship with both parents is preserved by a co-life breach. So while we must safeguard the right to family life, the child's best interests are paramount. Therefore, the law does not give a parent the right to association if it goes beyond the consideration of the child. Decisions under the law must always be made on the basis of what is best for the child, and that is why I believe that the law, as it is today, is very much in the best interests of the child. I understand that the intention of the new citizens in this proposal is, among other things, to: is to make up with fellowship Schikane in cases under the Parental Responsibility Act. Like the New Citizens' rapporteur, as stated in his question to the Minister, I have also received a great many inquiries, and I can also agree with the authors that it is of course unacceptable for a parent to harass another parent so that he disappears from a child's life. In fact, I think we can all agree on that. Harassment is not acceptable, and therefore, a unanimous Parliament also adopted back in 2015 the so-called harassment package, where various tools were given to address the issues of parental responsibility. Unfortunately, we are still hearing examples of harassment and of parents who are unjustly seeing their children taken out of their hands and, of course, we must have stopped doing so. But this motion for a resolution misses the mark, and instead we risk forcing children into association that is not for the best of the child. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517145152	Thank you. I need to make sure. Was this from the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten? Camilla Fabricius That's correct). Because I saw that the rapporteur also spoke to the SF rapporteur. Camilla Fabricius SF's rapporteur comes in later). It's so good. Then we are clear, and then there is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517145209	Thank you. All parties are under control, I understand here. The parental responsibility guidelines of December 2020 say quite specifically that no one is looking at the issue of guilt, that is, who is causing the conflict. So I would just really, really like to hear the Socialist rapporteur how the Social Democrats can support and support legislation that is simply designed in such a way that conflicts are rewarded. Those who start the conflict, those who continue to maintain a conflict, may be rewarded and rewarded with having the child, and the other parent is written out of association. How can the Social Democratic Party support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517145258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517145259	So what is central to us, and I will repeat myself, is the child's best interests, and the starting point is to look at what is best for the child. That is what matters to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517145314	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517145316	But hopefully we can agree that it is contrary to the best interests of the child if one rewards a parent with association • the parent who for years has made parenting and association chicane against the other parent. That's one thing. The second point is that I do not understand how social democracy can support legislation which at this stage simply means that some people have to fight so hard just to see their children. I have spoken to both mothers and fathers, mainly fathers, who have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars in the judicial system just to be allowed to see their children, based on the fact that they have been denied association on groundless charges.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517145400	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517145401	It sounds to me as if the rapporteur has some concrete examples and, like me, the rapporteur is also invited to continue to follow up on the situation in the House of Family Rights. And I think it is really important to bring up the specific cases, and I do not think it is appropriate for us to discuss individual cases from the parliamentary platform. I think it is quite essential not to harass oneself in association. It is also important that we follow the child's best interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517145435	Thank you to Mrs Camilla Fabricius. There are no more brief comments. Then the rapporteur of the Left will be Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517145449	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the new citizens for bringing the whole problem of the estimate of social affairs into the Parliamentary Chamber, a subject which is both very difficult and certainly very conflicting, but which we in this House should nevertheless look at how to resolve. That is also why we in the Left have called for a conciliation on this particular issue ourselves, because the conflicts in the House of Family Rights are at least to take and feel. There are few areas where I, as a family rapporteur, am getting more citizen references than this subject, and if only half of the inquiries I receive went into the media, then perhaps there was also more focus on it. Considering the human cost of losing association with one's child, it is simply incredible that it does not have a greater public focus and that we are currently doing so. accept that because the Family Court House needs some time to implement the reform, there must be parents in the system who run the risk of losing association with their child forever. This is totally unacceptable and it is heartbreaking to read some of the reports that come from the parties to this system. The proposal from the New Citizen speaks exactly into the discussion that we in the Left also think we should take, namely how to resolve this forward-looking, so harassment and fictional stories, especially conflict-recording actions, etc. will not be a mission for a party in the Family Court House and will not be a solution that you can get away with. We must avoid the horror stories we have all seen and heard. Because when we hear of the incidents in which parents' internal problems lead to children no longer being allowed to have association with their mother or father, just because, unfortunately, they did not agree on an agreement at first, and therefore not because one party is particularly unsuitable as a parent, there are some gaps that we owe to these people to close down. It's so disgusting reading that I am personally affected when I receive this type of inquiries from citizens of the family courthouse system. It's not for babies, and I feel so sorry for the kids trapped in this conflict. It must be absolutely, absolutely awful to experience your parents in this conflict and that as a child you have no chance of getting out of it without it possibly meaning that you do not see one parent forward. We agree that we need legislation that puts the child first, even when matters are muddy and the parents do not want the best for each other. Therefore, we also need to follow the area closely and be ready to act when the reality out there is shouting guard in arms, as I have to say that these parties in the family courthouse system have done in my inbox. Fortunately, however, this is also the case for other rapporteurs, and I would just like to say that the representations I receive are deeply, deeply serious and serious. So we have to cut through in here and ensure the best solution for our children and the children's association with both parents. We in the Left are behind the reform, and the expectation was of course a coherent system which took account of how complex and different matters can be. All the way through, the hand was to be held under the child, who is in the midst of the parents in their divorce. That was and it is a major reform and much had to be changed. That is why it is fair to say that we must have some experience along the way, and if there is something that does not work, we must, of course, correct it. We have done so in the past, for example. We cannot just sit back and say that now time has to go on, that now we have added more funds to the House of Family Rights, and then it all works out. For more money alone, unfortunately, it just does not solve in these examples, as we do, among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Of course, we should not regulate everything from in here, but we can demand that at least one should try to keep the child in a healthy relationship with both parents, as long as a parent is not particularly unfit. Because even though Mom and Dad may no longer be able to get along, father and daughter or mother and son or grandmother and granddaughter can still have an amazing relationship, and we must actively try to preserve that. So when we vote in favour, it is to ensure that in the long term we can have a discussion on solutions that ensure that the bond between children, parents and grandparents is not unnecessarily broken simply because mother and father no longer want each other in each other's lives and no longer want each other the best. You can soon forget that a family isn't just two parents. A family is your whole source, it is the first close and close relationships you make, and it is also to ensure the child's best interests, which must, of course, be the focal point in matters of association and ensure that the system is not abused to exclude mother or father from children's lives. And I have no more speaking time, so I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150008	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150013	Thank you so much. Thank you very much to the Left for supporting our resolution. In all its simplicity, it is simply a question of ensuring the following principles in the assessment of cases: (1) balancing all relevant considerations; and (2) ensuring the best interests of the child by protecting and preserving the bond between parents and children, unless the parent is particularly unfit. Does not the Left and the rapporteur really believe that this is just common sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150045	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150046	Thank you, and thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen for her question. I think that Mrs Mette Thiesen and myself are very much in agreement on these matters and on the progress of matters. And precisely because these cases are so conflicting and also very complex, we have to look at how we get it all around the system. I really think that we should sit down as rapporteurs with an interest in this and take the discussion because it is a huge reform and it is still not fully implemented. So it's perfectly obvious that we're gonna sit down and take the discussion on how to solve this in the future. And, as the rapporteur himself says, the two issues are something I can easily endorse.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150119	Thank you. There is another point from Mrs Mette Thiesen. You gotta keep in touch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150126	Thank you. Well, I just wanted to say thank you to the Left for their support. As the rapporteur of the Left also rightly says, we are receiving a great many requests. I posted a post on my Facebook Saturday night and this morning I received more than 150 inquiries from really frustrated people who have experienced a family justice system that obviously does not work. So thank you very much to the Left for their support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150153	Well, I just want to say thank you again. I hope that we may also be able to produce a report so that we can hopefully get more parties to take an active part in this resolution, because it is so important that we have a look at it. And otherwise, at least it's something the Left agrees with the bourgeoisies that we have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150209	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. Thanks for despriting, that's great. And then we welcome DF's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150234	Thank you for that, President. And I would like to thank the new citizens for putting forward the proposal in this Chamber, which seeks to change the principles of discretion in matters of association. It would like to require the government to submit the necessary legislative proposals before the end of the current parliamentary year and to make the necessary administrative changes, which means that in future the authorities must incorporate the following principles in their discretionary assessment of cases: balancing all relevant considerations; and that the child's best interests must be ensured by protecting and preserving the bond between parents and children, unless the parents are particularly unsuitable. The amendment of the discretionary assessment aims to create better decisions in matters of association and, at the same time, to bring Danish family law into line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. I have to say that I am deeply surprised at New Citizens' proposals that Danish family law should be in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, because I did not think that New Citizens were in favour of, you might say, the Court of Human Rights. Because if you go to New Citizens' own website, then it says that the problem with many of the international conventions that Denmark has signed up to is that they are interpreted into the absurd and used for political purposes that were never intended when we signed them. In the case of the Convention on Human Rights, non-elected judges sit and take far-reaching political decisions without democratic control. Another example is the refugee convention. It was not intended to be used as a lever for mass immigration from the Third World to Europe and Denmark. In Denmark, it is the Danish people who have to decide the legislation. If international conventions prevent this with unfair consequences, they must be denounced. That is one of the points on the New Citizens' website, which is why I am surprised that so much attention has been paid to the Court of Human Rights in this resolution. In the Danish People's Party we also want changes like New Citizens. We want this to take place in a Danish context and, as I said, I fully agree that there are huge challenges in the House of Family Rights and that we have a commitment to remedy it. And I, like all other social rapporteurs, have numerous inquiries about the Family Court House, and I certainly think that this is what we in the Danish People's Party believe that the starting point must be that the child has the right to both his parents, unless there have been particular seriousnesss, and that it is therefore not for the child's good. The family courthouse must be professional in its meeting with the families. In the event of conflicts, conflict mediation must be speeded up, and there must be no lengthy processing times or difficulty in getting in touch with the Family Court House, and unfortunately there have been numerous examples of this. And that is not satisfactory at all. In addition, many people experience discrimination on the grounds of their sex, and I think that is something we are obliged to look at. We also believe that action should be taken in this area. B.T. described in an article here on 16 May that Stig, the father of two girls, lost association with her two little girls because of misinformation about a psychiatric hospital that was used against him. From what is described in the article, it seems profoundly, deeply unreasonable. The family courthouse must be sure that the cases that are being passed on are, of course, based on correct information, and I am deeply concerned about legal certainty in these cases. I also believe that we must take a tough approach to false, undocumented information which can be used in a custody case; and the same must be done if we are to mark the child in a direction that creates parenthood in relation to the opposite party. That is why I also believe that the government is obliged to do everything it can to correct what is not working, and it must also call us parties for possible renegotiations, because we simply have to do this better for families and for children. After all, we believe that it is the Danish Parliament that should make legislation and decide what should be changed and not conventions. But of course we in the Danish People's Party support that we have to correct the shortcomings in the Family Court House, and that is why we also believe that it is time that we stopped trying to revive the Family Court House system. Instead, we need to sit together and find a new and better solution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150731	Thank you to DF's rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech. There is also a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens, this time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150738	Thank you so much. There was half a speech by the rapporteur about all sorts of other things. I shall be the first to say that I am in no way enthusiastic about EMD, and it was also some lovely pieces of text from our website that the rapporteur read out. I'd love to remove that part. Can the Danish People's Party support what is basically in this motion for a resolution if we remove the last part that is used as an argument against it? Can the Danish People's Party support it? Then we would very much like to remove that part of the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150811	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150813	Now I hope that Mrs Mette Thiesen has listened to what I said in my rapporteur's speech and has listened very carefully. I am just wondering why conventions and the Court of Human Rights and other things are going to be used, in view of the fact that New Citizens are of course customary, one might say that we are advocating that we should make the legislation in the Danish Parliament and not on the basis of conventions. Now you can take the whole area of foreigners. What would it look like to do that, in relation to the Court of Human Rights, in relation to family reunification and other things? Well, that's just what screams a little to heaven.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150847	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150848	I do not think that it is our resolution that is screaming to heaven. I think that is the rapporteur's argument, because it is beginning to smell much more of such political teasing, rather than really wanting to solve a specific problem. As I started by saying, we'd love to take that part out. It shouldn't be a problem at all. This is about two things: 1) balancing all the relevant considerations in these estimates, and 2) ensuring that the child's best interests are ensured by protecting and preserving the bond between parents and children, unless the parent is particularly unsuitable. Will the Danish People's Party be able to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150922	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150924	But has the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party not listened at all to what I said in my speech about the challenges facing the whole area of the House of Family Rights? Has the rapporteur of the new citizens not heard that I, as rapporteur, have been talking about the challenges that exist in relation to how the parents experience the meeting with the system and that I have said that we should put this together and resolve it? Has the rapporteur not listened? I will then have to give a copy of my rapporteur's speech to the rapporteur, because I recognise that we must, of course, have this family court house and this family law system corrected. That's all we can be familiar with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517150958	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the SF rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Ina Strejer-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517151025	For SF, the child's best will always be first priority. The way in which this is ensured in a case of association must be based on a case-by-case assessment. We would like the child to keep in touch with both parents if it is for the child's good, but it is clear that if it is considered that having a relationship with one parent is detrimental to the child, it should not be enforced simply because it is a principle. As mentioned, decisions are based on a concrete assessment of what is for the child's good. It will therefore also be a concrete assessment whether it is best for the child to re-participate with a parent to whom the child has lost contact. The fact that one parent is being cut off because of the parents' internal conflicts is sad, and it should be examined whether this conflict can be resolved before a decision is taken. The practice of fellowship chicane is very problematic and attempted solved in a relatively new law. The punishment of fellowship chaikas is shown by a Supreme Court ruling. In the SF we would like to support further investigations into the area, but we cannot support the concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517151123	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Thank you. Then I do not see anyone from the Radical Left and the Enhedslist immediately, as the Social Democrat rapporteur welcomed them. Then it is Conservatives' rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Mads Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517151145	Thank you. It is rare that I am allowed to go straight on to S and SF, I would say, in relation to the order, but there is so much new when you are acting social rapporteur for a moment. I can be brief. If Mom and Dad are fighting, it's never good for the child, let alone when it comes to the child. I do not imagine that there can be two views on that. There are certainly also professionals who are better than me to assess the complexity of these cases, but it must be as flexible as possible for both mother and father and child in particular. We have to go a long way to avoid these situations. Since I am not a social rapporteur normally, I cannot boast of getting all these inquiries from troubled parents, one can say that lies in conflict, but I can say that as a council member alone I have tried to get inquiries from people whom I have had to try to pass on to someone I knew who might help to push. We can support the proposal, and if there is no majority, we are of course also in favour of landing it in a report so that we can look into it in depth. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517151250	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments here either. Then I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance and the Christian Democrats immediately, and that is why we must now welcome the rapporteur of the proposers, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen from the New Citizens' Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517151324	On Saturday, I asked my followers on Facebook to imagine that they are coming home to an empty house or an empty apartment • their spouse or girlfriend has left them and took their common children with them. Members of this House can now try to imagine the same thing. You seek association with the children, but the children's mother or father says you can't figure out how to be a parent. That sounds pretty awful, doesn't it? Unfortunately, it is the reality for Søren, whose former partner began to make up stories about him to prevent him from having association with their common children. Søren and the children's mother have meetings at the State Department, now the Family Court House, separately, and eventually it is decided that Søren gets an hour and a half supervised association with the children every three weeks. Often the mother doesn't bring the children, and then it can be many weeks between Søren's seeing the children. As the association process is over, the child counsellor concludes that the children are happy to be with their father. He is good at caring for them, and so the association with the children should no longer be monitored. The children's mother tells the State Department, she's still not comfortable leaving the children to their father. After a period when the mother has refused to hand over the children for association, the State Department decides to set in motion a new course of supervised association to meet her insecurity. The process ends again with a positive assessment of Søren's relationship with the children. The children need their father, and the association is good for them. Therefore, the association should no longer be monitored; it should be slowly stepped up to every other weekend with two nights at his home. The mother complains about the decision to the Ankestyrelsen, but she is not successful in the complaint. The children have the right to be with Søren, but the children's mother often does not want to deliver them to him. Sometimes the kids are only handed over because the bailiff demands it. It's hard for the kids. And after four years, a court case on custody and two child experts' inquiries, both of which confirm Søren's parental competence, the State Department decides to terminate the association between Søren and the children. The conflict has become too difficult, and it puts too much strain on the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517151553	[Sound emission]... so it is so that not everyone wants to be mentioned from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament. It's not a real name, and I've done that before). Okay, that's good. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517151607	This story is from before, the State Department became the Family Court House, and frankly it gives me chills. And things have not improved with the new system, on the contrary. In a new study by the Lawyers' Society, 50 per cent is equivalent. of 267 lawyers that legal certainty is worse today than five years ago. The new system that was supposed to help more people does the opposite. The reason can be found in the Parental Responsibility Act and the Family Court House's practice. The official guide on residence and association in cases with a high level of conflict between parents also shows that refusal to associate can happen if the association is or will be very conflicting because of the relationship between parents. Furthermore, it appears that the issue of guilt does not affect the assessment of the issue of association. Thus, a parent living with the children can deliberately cause a conflict and thus win his children. It is simply not worthy of a rule of law. In the past, we have put forward proposals to give men the same rights to help as women when they experience domestic violence. Unfortunately, there was little support for this from the left, which otherwise screams very loudly about gender equality. But now we are trying again with a new proposal. I and New Citizens are proposing to change the principles of the estimate in social matters. We want to balance all the relevant considerations and ensure that the best interests of the child are safeguarded by protecting and preserving the bond between parents and children, unless the parents are particularly unsuitable. I hope that the few Members who have chosen to be present in the Chamber for this very, very important matter have listened carefully, and the many parties who have announced that they will vote against, I would urge you to think very carefully before the second and last reading of this proposal. Because there's a really big problem out there. After I told on Facebook about Søren's history, countless Danes, both mothers and fathers and grandparents, have written their story to me, and these are horrific and thought-provoking stories about the practice of the State Administration, now the Family Court House. Most recently, B.T. tell about Stig, who has lost association with his two little girls because a false claim was used against him. A solution is needed. There is a need to restore legal certainty in this area, and let us together help everyone, both children and adults, who get caught up in these matters of association. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517151857	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Mette Thiesen, from New Citizens. There are no brief comments, so we need to get the alcohol off. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517151917	The debate is open. First of all, we welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517151945	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution B 156, which we are about to discuss here, proposes that before 1 May 2021 the government should put forward a legislative proposal setting up a new pilot scheme with extended free municipalities. The extended free municipality experiment scheme should enable all 98 municipalities to apply for specific experimental courses in one or more welfare areas of their choice. It could, for example, be done. be day-to-day, primary school, older or employment areas. With the extended free-community scheme, all the municipalities in the country should have much greater freedom to find new and effective solutions themselves. Over the years, a number of good efforts have been made to eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy in the municipal sector. We have had free municipalities in various forms, and the right to challenge was introduced in 2008 and we have removed individual provisions, but this must be said to have been a sporadic effort with various tools. Despite good intentions, there remains a need to debureaucratise and simplify rules. The former government of VLAK launched in 2019 Free Municipality Experiment III. 20 applications were received from a total of 17 municipalities, so there was a limited interest from the municipalities in a new free municipality experiment. The applications were subsequently redirected to the scope of the extended challenge rights in December 2019. The previous government also launched the second round of free institution attempts in 2019 where both municipalities and institutions could apply for experiments. However, in March 2020 the government decided not to carry out the trials. This was partly because there was very limited interest in the experiments among the municipalities. Only 3 out of 98 municipalities had shown interest in this despite the fact that the experiment had been open to all the municipalities in the country. The government's attitude is also based on the fact that we have tried and tested the experimental schemes where individual rules are removed. This does not mean, of course, that we simply have to give up more attempts, where ideas to better solve welfare tasks, with less bureaucratic rules, can come from below, from those who know where the rules are bothering and preventing new and better ways of doing things, on the contrary. But there is a need for us to try something new, and that is precisely what the government has done with the welfare agreements in the day-to-day services sector, the school sector and in the care of the elderly. The proposers state that the extended free municipality attempt must free all 98 municipalities at once and that the municipalities themselves must be able to choose one or more welfare areas where the municipality must be freed. On that suggestion, I may have a quiet wonder. In the past, the proposers have refused to support the welfare agreements in the area of the elderly. The proposers have quite recently voted against draft legislation on welfare agreements in the area of the elderly. Now you want it all and more. How it works, I don't know. With the welfare agreements, we are going a different and new way than we have done before. We start, so to speak, with a blank piece of paper, because we will do away with what chokes professionalism and presence. We don't know best in here at Christiansborg... not always at least. This makes those who are daily close to the older citizen, the child in kindergarten or the pupil in primary school. Citizens must experience more presence, better care, better care. They can do so by allowing the professionally competent staff to have a freer framework to create better welfare with the citizens. It takes courage, and it requires faith in the professional: the teachers, the educators and the employees of the elderly centres, and the courage and dedication of the local authorities have been shown by the seven municipalities. I'd like to sign for that. Experiments of this nature can only work if there is strong political anchoring in the municipalities. Of course, children still need high quality education. The elderly still need the help and care they need. Therefore, on the blank piece of paper, a few fence posts have been set up to ensure that this happens. But with the greater freedom granted to the municipalities, there is, of course, also a responsibility to deliver better welfare and better solutions. I believe that the seven municipalities can deliver that. The municipalities have so much spirit and lots of ideas. The welfare agreements are an experiment in depth in which the municipalities are given far-reaching degrees of freedom. The number of municipalities involved is therefore also a balance in relation to the extent of degrees of freedom. As I have already mentioned, it is therefore most appropriate at this stage to start with seven municipalities, each of which is completely free from unnecessary regulation in a single area, where we try a wild idea on a smaller scale. We will have much better conditions if we have the opportunity to follow and support each of the seven municipalities. It therefore requires close cooperation, and it requires some municipalities dedicated to the experiment. The same is true in relation to the number of welfare areas. We start with three welfare areas that form the cornerstone of close welfare: day care, primary school and care for the elderly. Unnecessary bureaucracy, detailed regulation is certainly also needed in other welfare areas, so experience should not only benefit in three welfare areas and in seven municipalities. It is clearly our ambition to be able to spread the experience of attempts to improve the welfare of the rest of the country's municipalities. This does not mean, of course, that other measures or proposals for freedom can be implemented in parallel with the welfare agreements in the broad sense. The important thing here is to look at the purpose and why we are doing these attempts: to remove bureaucracy, to make room for the professionalism of employees and local solutions close to the citizens. So to sum up: instead of the various liberation attempts that we have had over the past many years, for which there has not been a great deal of interest, we need to let go and do things in a completely new way. With the political agreements on the welfare agreements, we have undertaken to turn the whole thing upside down. We're gonna have to step back in here. We need to see innovation sprude, and that is why it is a question of dare to go quite far. I can assure the Left and the rest of the parliamentary parties that the government's work to debureaucratise the public sector does not end with the welfare agreements. On the contrary, it is only a first step. So here I think the Left kicks in an open door, so to speak. For, of course, we must continue the work of releasing our citizens and skilled employees from tighter retail management. Welfare agreements on day-to-day services, public schools and the elderly are the starting point: several areas can be reached. But we don't do it all at once. We have tried this before with limited results and also with limited interest on the part of the municipalities, I dare say. In other words, we are doing this step by step in order to be able to support the experiments. That option will not be there if all municipalities and welfare areas are released at the same time. As the experience of the previous free municipalities also shows, it is about quality and not quantity in the experiments and in the number of participating municipalities, if we are to succeed in putting something seriously on this agenda. I look forward very much to getting started in earnest and seeing what comes out of these far-reaching experiments with seven welfare agreement municipalities, so that we can use the experience to improve welfare across all municipalities, and then we can talk about involving more municipalities and welfare areas. So, on this basis, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517152716	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517152721	Thank you for the Minister's speech. There are, in fact, a great many of the things the Minister says in his speech that are entirely in line with the resolution we are actually putting forward on the Left side. The minister said, among other things:: We don't know best here from Christiansborg... it has to be local that things are anchored. The Minister also said that there should be room to take a step back and think again. That is exactly what we are doing with this motion for a resolution; to dare to think again. And then it may be that we do not think that we should take a step back, but perhaps actually take a larger step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517152823	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517152824	No, we cannot be accused of that, as long as we actually have so few fence posts that guarantee citizens' rights. But otherwise not only do we stay out of it and the Danish Parliament stays out of it, but we have got the local authorities involved in it too. Now I do not remember in which of the three municipalities they mentioned that they are doing this in the area of the elderly. However, the ideas of bureaucracy and of new ways of doing things where the needs of the elderly, the relatives and the professional assessments of the employees are at the forefront are very well under way out there. And one of the places I know they've collected ideas in the bathrooms... it's not much peace you get as a public servant. But there people have been able to contribute good ideas in the toilet booth to how they should do it. And that's the whole point here. Well, compared to this up and down thing or this with a single rule you can apply for, and free institution attempts we can just see that over the years we've seen that it's not what's really going on. Then we wouldn't be standing where we are today. So now we're trying to do it a new way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517152932	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517152933	Yes, thank you. What I am really sorry about is that one does not dare to release the municipalities and allow them to join for themselves, in relation to what they would like to try. Because I can inform the Minister that I have received several inquiries from municipalities asking: why can we not be allowed to do some tests, for example. in the area of employment, in the area of climate change or perhaps in rural areas? And I have to say this: because the government has decided which seven municipalities and which subjects are to be tried out by free municipalities. And I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister not believe that the other 91 municipalities could actually have some good ideas?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153014	Well, I think it is quite fantastic if already, on the basis of the welfare agreements with seven municipalities in three key welfare areas, there has been a great deal of energy and interest out there to be involved. And as I said in my reply, the Left is kicking in an open door. For it is clear that we must follow up these communities of freedom, as I think some have called them, and the experiences they are doing, and spread them. And then the obvious thing to look at is whether there are other areas where we can go just as radically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153046	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. There are no more brief comments. And then it is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153110	Thank you for the floor. We are today considering a proposal from the Left to require the government to submit legislative proposals before 1 May 2021, setting up a new experimental scheme with extended free municipalities. The extended free municipality experiment scheme should enable all 98 municipalities to apply for specific experimental courses in one or more welfare areas of their choice. We in the Social Democratic Party agree with the proposers that a free-community attempt is basically a good thing. The free municipality experiments have resulted in many good initiatives, and the municipalities have also been quite able to spread new knowledge and implement actions as well. And for us, there is no doubt that free community attempts have been a gain. At the same time, however, we must also know that the free-community attempts have not been the new break that we have perhaps been waiting for. At least not a new break, which has propagated itself into the way we run the municipalities. In December 2019, the Government decided to redirect applications in free municipality trials to be dealt with under the extended challenge rights, and further applications were closed, and in March 2020 the government decided not to carry out trials as part of the second round of free institution attempts, as among other things. a very limited number of interested applicants were only three out of 98 municipalities. If the proposal we are discussing here today is to get Earth going, then more people need to show interest. We in the Social Democratic Party are convinced that there must be other and more fundamental changes than what we have seen from the free municipalities. And that is precisely what the welfare agreements will be able to point out. We are, in fact, fully in line with the Left that we should rethink the municipal assignment and debureaucratize state rules, and we are actually very pleased that the Left is also concerned about this agenda. We in the Social Democratic Party are just going to make it very thorough and perhaps more far-reaching end to what free municipalities are actually trying to do. With the welfare agreements, we have chosen to place responsibility locally in the 3-year trial scheme to try to find a new and better way to improve welfare. And this must be done step by step, as the experiment goes into depth with very far-reaching degrees of freedom. One of the most important things in the welfare agreements is the desire to give professional space back to frontline workers and managers for the benefit of citizens. The welfare agreements are more than just an attempt. For me, they are also stepping stones on their way to a municipal Denmark, which is characterised by a high degree of local autonomy in which managers and employees and citizens can see themselves. We must be aware in this Chamber that as politicians, both locally and nationally, we have the overall responsibility, and that is why we must make sure that what we put in the sea is also acceptable to us. For it is so that if we are to be able to make the fundamental changes and rethink the municipal area, it is important that we here from Christiansborg can follow up and support the experiments. There must be close cooperation and follow-up in relation to each of the municipalities that may be set free, and there we must also be realistic in the first place about how many areas and how many municipalities we can actually set free. That is why we do not believe that it is now time to give 98 municipalities free access to free municipalities in all possible areas. We would very much like to be able to carry out thorough and well-considered evaluations of all experiments, so that we can discuss politically what the experiments mean for the future work in the municipalities, and that needs to be done properly. It just doesn't mean we have to sit back and just watch. We're not finished at all. We need to see the welfare agreements as a major piece of work that we have only just begun, and that is why we are very pleased that the Left is getting so clearly into this fight that we have to keep a close eye on the big picture and the agreements that we have actually already put into effect. We in the Social Democrat Party have great ambitions for new thinking and debureaucratisation, and I know the Left too, so let us look at the big picture together and how together we can move forward from where we stand today. We cannot therefore support the proposal as it stands here today, but we look forward to the further discussion on how we can succeed together in achieving the common ambitions we have to debureaucratise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153526	Thank you to Mrs Birgitte Vind. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153531	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I think the Minister said that, but Mrs Birgitte Vind also said that we have not finished the welfare agreements at all. The seven municipalities that are now in progress are only the first step, so I would like to ask: when will the government take the second step?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153555	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153557	Thank you. After all, we have barely got off the ground, one of the municipalities has even asked for us to step a little on the brakes because of corona, but the debate is, as it were, in the Chamber already today, and that is what we need to do. We must all talk to each other about what we want and what we can measure up to. So, quite specifically, when we are taking the next step: I hope that after today we might even be able to come up with a joint report that we have common ambitions for debureaucratisation and want this way together, but that we are also doing it wisely and at the right pace.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153627	Anni Mattiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153628	Well, thank you. I can easily say on behalf of the Left that we are trying to draw up a joint report on this, because I think it is actually sad if there are municipalities out there who want to start an experiment here and now, but then have to wait. And let me give you an example. If the Municipality of Vejle wanted to start trying on climate change, could it not be something that the Socialist rapporteur could easily see would be sensible? The climate area is, of course, an area where we in Christiansborg talk about someone talking about the importance of thinking into it all, and there I think it would be a shame if, for example, we were to do so. The municipality of Vejle had to wait 2-3 years to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153707	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153708	I am not going to say which municipalities it should be and in what order we should do it right now. One thing is just certain, and that is that it is a huge amount of work that we have put ourselves into, and I could just see that Roger Buch, who is a municipal researcher, but also that someone from VIVE has said today to the newspaper Denmark that it is very, very extensive with what we have already started. And if we start more, we have to find out what we have to start, and why? In other words, if we say yes to all 98 municipalities, we do not have the opportunity to evaluate and follow up the whole thing. It almost goes without saying, and that is what has been the challenge of the free municipalities, namely that we have not been able to follow it up on the part of the state and act in the face of what has been experienced out there in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153746	Thank you to Mrs Birgitte Vind. There are no more brief comments. We just need to get the alcohol off, and then it is DF's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517153810	Thank you. The draft parliamentary resolution deals with a new experimental scheme for extended free municipalities in a number of welfare areas. This is what the proposal is about, and we always need to discuss how we can improve and, above all, develop public services. That is why we in the Danish People's Party welcome the fact that with this proposal the Left is giving rise to a debate in this Chamber, precisely in relation to how we can approach it. There have been many initiatives over time to free the municipalities, to give the municipalities space and the opportunity to work on developing the way to solve the municipal tasks. Unnecessary bureaucracy, slow working procedures, inappropriate rules and demands are all things that are often addressed both in here in the Parliament hall and out in the municipalities and sometimes in the population as a whole. Yes, something must be done, and it cannot be said that there must be so much documentation and so many rules! One government after another puts it on the agenda and much has been tried. I can also say that nothing good has ever come of it, but in the large picture I do not think it is wrong to say that it did not result in the great revolutions in the way in which the municipal service is provided. And that doesn't mean we shouldn't try to do better. After all, the present government has launched an experiment in the area of the elderly and children's and primary schools. Both attempts have probably also been made on the basis of the best intentions, but the experiments also show the dilemmas of free municipalities, because there are limits to municipal freedom, and so must there be. After all, it is not entirely without reason that we in here make laws and regulations on how we want society to function, on what we want the service to be, and on what rights the individual citizen should have precisely in relation to the system. And in the Danish People's Party we do not want service standards in the municipalities to undermine the service law that we have today, and that is also one of the reasons why we in the Danish People's Party are only included in one of the two current agreements, because with the agreement on the elderly, we believe that the legal certainty and freedom of choice of citizens will be too limited, including the free choice, and that is also a discussion, it can be said, the Left knows, because they are not included in that agreement either. But we can basically support the fact that all municipalities have the opportunity to apply for and carry out specific trials in one or more welfare areas of their choice, but what we in the Danish People's Party are concerned with is that it must not be at the expense of citizens and that it must not be at the expense of legal certainty. The purpose of the proposal is described in such a way as to enable all municipalities in the country to be as free as possible from state regulation in one or more areas in order to provide much greater local business space to develop welfare and the task solution. We support this a long way along the way, but we must be sure that the tests that may be approved are not, at least, something that we need to make sure of. And that is why it is also important, I think, when we make such actions as these, that we sort of get it fenced in, because citizens' opportunities for proper and more dignified treatment should not be undermined; today, through the right of challenge, the municipalities also have the opportunity to challenge if it is. I am also looking forward to seeing what comes out of these trials that are currently running. But let us sit down together and look at it, it may be that we can draw up a joint report which can at least take account of the fact that it must not be at the expense of citizens' legal certainty or their free choice, as we have seen in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517154236	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517154242	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for his positive response. I can at least say, as the rapporteur also knows, that it is also one of the things that matters to the Left, in other words that it is one of them. I think it is quite easy to get things in place so that we can also ensure that things are done in the future. Where I just think this proposal is different is when we accept the requests that come from the municipalities. Because I know, for example, that one of the seven municipalities is about to start free municipalities, which would actually rather have had something else, and that is really just where I, if you let things grow from below and there are council members who, together with employees in the municipalities, have some good ideas about trying to see if there is one area they would like to free more, then think that it will be easier to have a good effect. And perhaps I would also like to have a comment from the Danish People's Party on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517154351	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517154352	I think the rapporteur has a point in that. However, when it comes to the request made by the rapporteur, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, I cannot say why that municipality has not sought the right of challenge. I fully agree that free municipalities in themselves are not bad, but it can be. It may be, if it is at the expense of the citizens, and it is certainly for the Danish People's Party to find the right balance. Because it may well be that here there are some crooked rules that are demotivating to the municipalities in terms of developing something, but I, as social rapporteur, would also like to have a hand in dealing with it. After all, trust is also something to be earned, and there I sometimes have a concern about something in the social field where I find that, like undermining the intentions of the Services Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517154447	Anni Mattiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517154448	I totally, totally agree. There are also areas where we simply have to tread cautiously, and that is why I also believe, whether we are talking about free elections or we are talking about legal certainty, that it is one of the things that it is important to get the agreement through. Then there is another thing that I would very much like to discuss with the other parties, also in relation to the possibility of reaching a joint report, and that is that, if I look back in time, whether it is in our own reign or in the time of the current government, then perhaps I do not think we are capable enough to ensure that what comes out of the free community attempts is, frankly, also reality or subsequently spread out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517154527	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517154528	The rapporteur is absolutely right about this. When it comes to many of the funds that we have set aside at some point both in the social sphere and in free municipalities, to dismantle and try new active efforts, and that the efforts are working, and that may be in relation to methods working, or other things, we simply do not have a bearing on the implementation of it, nor on what has worked in practice. And I believe that we must ensure from in here that the Minister must, of course, ensure and has a responsibility to look at how what is being put into effect also works and whether there are some of the very good solutions that need to be implemented elsewhere. The rapporteur is absolutely right about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517154615	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517154632	Thank you. In Denmark, we have a fantastic and strong municipal self-government, ensuring that decisions are taken as close as possible to the citizens and allowing the overall political framework to be adapted to the specific local needs and context. Unfortunately, we have seen a tendency for more and more decisions to be taken centrally rather than in the municipalities, and this is an unfortunate trend, as it stifles the possibility of finding good solutions. That is why the SF has taken a positive view of the experimental system of free municipalities and appreciates the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left. In SF we want to set the municipalities more free. Too much top management of the work in the municipalities involves cash thinking and inflexible solutions which are a nuisance to the citizens and the employees who carry it out. The experiments so far in the social, health and employment fields have shown that municipalities are very much able to handle their tasks better and cheaper by organising their own solutions. In the field of employment, fewer procedural requirements include: The meeting with the citizen and the opportunity to launch new initiatives as psychological assistance improved the results of the job centres, and at the same time it has increased the satisfaction of citizens and other stakeholders such as companies, teachers and cashiers, and this is what happens when municipalities are freed from top management and bureaucracy. That is why I also look forward to working on the welfare agreements together with seven selected municipalities in the area of the elderly, day care and school, and I also think it is very exciting if we provide opportunities for the schools in particular to be freer from the many general demands that are here from Christiansborg. Already there are exciting experiments in Holbæk and Esbjerg, these are two independent cities and not put together and we believe that further attempts at the liberation of primary schools could improve the school day for both teachers and pupils in many places in the country. We already have an agreement on this, and we will continue to do so in the autumn, which is why we in the SF do not believe that the school area should be taken in a future round according to this proposal. However, I can see that something similar could apply in other welfare areas, such as employment, as I have already mentioned, but also in the cultural field, I could imagine that greater freedom in the task solution could allow for new and creative local cultural opportunities in the municipalities. In the field of culture, we have already started work in the SF with the freedom of local representation on boards, and we must continue this liberation. However, we also need to be careful, because free municipalities must give more freedom away from rigid top management, but we must also ensure that this does not lead to a reduction in welfare or a violation of citizens' rights. It has previously been seen that experimental schemes can put citizens at a disadvantage, for example tenants in relation to their rights to live in a dwelling, and it can also help to reduce welfare or lead to increased privatisation, and it is clear that this is not something SF wants. In the SF we are open and tense to hear the municipalities' input on what they think could be good free municipalities attempts, but we also believe that the incoming proposals should be handled so that legal certainty and citizen-friendly welfare are not neglected. With the attention points we have with us, we look forward to working on this proposal and could help to free the municipalities, show them more confidence, while at the same time ensuring that welfare and security remain.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155015	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I think that's how Korsbæk came into being. You took two names and put them together, that is, parts of them, so maybe you're making a trend here. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155027	Thank you. I would just like to say thank you for the fact that the SF is also in favour. I actually hear what the rapporteur says as if the SF could be involved, for example. to draw up a joint report. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155041	That is absolutely correct, and we really think that would be the best way forward here. It is clear that, as the proposal stands at the moment, it is not finally ready to be implemented. So we're gonna get on with a bigger job, compared to how this is gonna work. But in the SF we are clearly on the idea of letting the ideas come from below, and that it is the municipalities that tell us what they might need and what they might want, and in fact can also see some potential in working on from the free community idea, and then we must somehow find out how to systematize it and also ensure that you keep an eye on the work that is going on out there and that you pick up on the results that are there, but also that there is not just free play. So we think a report would be the right way forward, and it would be very nice if we could get as many people as possible on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155129	Anni Mattiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155130	Thank you. I can promise that I will also take the lead in getting some common text done. In any case, I can see that there are things that need to be adjusted to, in the resolution, because the date alone is no longer appropriate. It has been a little while since we put it forward. It says that on 1 May the government should have this in place, so we might have to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155150	At least if you're not Hermione who can turn the clock back and forth. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Radical Left immediately, so that is why it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155211	I think that free municipalities' proposals are interesting, and if the aim is to debureaucratize state rules, there is a great deal to be done. Free municipalities may be a welcome input to the process, but it is important that the experiments that are being carried out are systematically implemented, and that is not always the case. Perhaps we should start with what we have a direct opportunity to influence here and now. For example, when the Left... I think it would be good to imagine that the Left and we could make proposals for dispensing for the budget framework so that if you invested in green initiatives you could get them implemented in this way. We'll see if we can do that. But back to the welfare areas, which is, of course, what the proposal is most about. As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, it is a question of balancing legal certainty for the citizens and a possible urge on the part of the municipalities to solve the tasks cheaply and thus possibly under appropriate standards, and that is precisely the balance that is difficult to make in experimental areas, because there are very often not quite real experimental conditions. All in all, however, there is the basis for a joint report, for which all the parties have so far made themselves spokesmen, so I really look forward to the work we will be doing in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155358	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is also a brief comment from Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155403	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur for also welcoming it. I hope we can reach a joint report. The question put to me by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, I think I must first turn to the rapporteur for finance in the Left before I begin to speak, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155416	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155418	Well, I'm gonna consider that pretty clever, because otherwise it's probably gonna get nowhere. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155425	Thank you, Mrs Jette Gottlieb. There are no more brief comments. Nor is there anyone directly from the Conservative People's Party, so we should welcome Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155436	Every time politicians want to make these solutions with free municipalities or when they say that we are now setting people free, it usually ends up being even more bureaucracy, even more administration and some solutions that really do not benefit the citizens out there in the long term. I think it was Schlüter who made the first attempt to cut red tape away, and since then every government has had their own little project that they could drive forward and where they could say: something is happening now, we are debureaucracy. This government then has free municipalities as their little talisman that they can put ahead and where they can say: look, we are moving, and we are moving in the right direction. This has been done for 30 to 40 years now. But when I look at it, and I think when the citizens look at it, they do not look into a system of less bureaucracy and less administration and fewer rules and requirements. On the contrary, things are going the wrong way. So despite the intention that we should now have free municipalities, and all municipalities should be free municipalities, there is nothing there and now I have been sitting in Aarhus City Council, which suggests that the municipalities will set the institutions free out there. On the contrary, they just put on even more bureaucracy and administration. So if you want something, and we really want to do that in New Citizens, you have to set the institutions free, then you have to leave the money around the regions, bypassing all the local politicians and DJs who sit out in the municipalities, because there are too many links on the way out before the money comes out to the citizens. And in every little link, there's some people brave this money with documentation requirements, evaluations and high wages. Now put the money directly to the citizens. Have some faith in what we call close democracy. The school boards. What real influence and power have the school boards seen? What has the principal really seen in influence and power on the school today? Haven't they just become an extended arm of the municipality? Yes, they are in many places. The same applies to nursing homes. There are so many skilled managers out there, there are so many skilled employees. In New Citizens we believe that they can deliver the best core welfare if we set them free and the money goes with the citizens out there. That would be the free thought, and we would like to support it. But to give more money to the municipalities we don't believe in making anything easier. Unfortunately, history has shown that it didn't happen under the previous government either, so that's the way we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155727	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155730	Thanks to New Citizens' rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech, exciting, exciting. I just need to know if it really is New Citizens' policy to abolish the municipalities. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? Are we thinking that the money should be sent directly from the state to the citizens, or how is that supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155751	No, we do not want to dismantle the municipalities, but yes, we believe that the money should be sent directly to the individual institutions. In this way, we ensure that there is the same opportunity for the same level of service in Hørsholm as there is in Herning, because they get the same funds there. The fact that some municipalities then choose to spend more and then perhaps demand something more in tax with the citizens must then be up to the municipalities, and they must be accountable to the citizens. But when we talk so much about ensuring a proper level of service everywhere in the country, the best and simplest way to say: the money follows the citizen, and that is the same amount that comes with everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155828	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155830	Thanks for the explanation. It is also good enough to know that it is not because New Citizens want to shut down the municipalities completely, but actually send the money directly to the citizens. Another thing I would like to ask a few questions about is that, after all, you have some good experiences from some of the free municipalities attempts that have been made, among other things. in the field of employment, too. Does New Citizens not think that sometimes it is a good idea to try something new, for example. Here to set the municipalities free and let things grow from below?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155908	But that is what we are doing in the true form of the New Citizens' Party, by letting the money follow the citizens. Then it grows up in the institution and not with some consultant inside the municipality. During the last government, which increased the municipal budgets out there, it was 2.3 or 2.5 billion. kr., it went up to 435 million. kr. of them for increased central administration and management. So when you give more money and more things to the municipalities, they are not used for the benefit of the citizens, then they are spent on increased administration. That's what we want to get away from. We want the money directly to the citizens, right into the bourgeois core welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155947	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517155951	Thank you. I am quite convinced that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is actually well aware of how many rules and frameworks have been laid over the shoulders here. I am quite sure that the rapporteur himself has experienced this. However, I am surprised that the rapporteur himself is not aware that there are places and areas where local authorities have actually asked for a debureaucratisation in the field of school. In the same municipality from which the rapporteur is from, for example, the alderman in that area, and it is then SF's Thomas Medom, has led it in terms of avoiding the test tyranny imposed also in here from Christiansborg. That is one of the examples. Can the rapporteur say, and it may be, that I have misunderstood it, and then he must correct me whether the rapporteur is not in favour of such positive things happening on the part of the municipalities as well, where one would actually like to ease the yoke of bureaucracy and strict rules that have been imposed on them here from Christiansborg, but where they simply cannot push it because we have a lot to do with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160059	Yes, and that's why we just want to move it one step further than SF. We want to give power to the municipalities, we want to give power to the schools. In fact, we believe that they can do the job better than the local politicians, also in Aarhus Municipality. So we actually just want to move it one step further out. Then I would say that not everything that comes from the municipality of Aarhus has been good. For example: The number of school leaders has increased enormously. Has it come closer to directing it? No. In the past, the headmaster, the principal of the school, and they did these tasks very well. Now you have these management teams with five or six leaders who are so busy being management teams for themselves that they don't have time to look out at the people they're actually supposed to be looking at in schools and at the kids. So it is certainly not everything that goes in a better direction because the municipalities are given more freedom. To give the municipalities more freedom is certainly not a guarantee that there will then be less management and less bureaucracy and administration, on the contrary. So we're just gonna follow that thinking and then go step further, so it's the individual school that's gonna have to see if they find a value in this test tyranny.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160155	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160157	I very much agree with the rapporteur on this. It is not only gold and green forests that come into the municipalities; it is not always the best decisions. Nor do I say that the municipality of Aarhus makes only the good decisions. However, I would just as well try to return to the example mentioned by the rapporteur in giving the money to the schools and removing all procedural requirements. Is it okay for the rapporteur if the school in question chooses to employ ten managers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160224	Yeah, absolutely. It is, of course, that schools are set free. Well, hopefully there's a school board that grabs the management and says, "You know what, that's a bad way to spend the money." Or they support the management that this is the right way to spend the money. And the parents who have chosen people to sit on that school board must then take responsibility. It's close democracy. That is when decisions are made where the benefit lies. But it requires politicians to be willing to take that step back and accept this near democracy. And that's probably where it often fails.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160300	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160316	Thank you. We support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left. We believe that Denmark needs to have some more political pluralism in the way that our municipal units can develop in more different directions than they can today with the very strict central governance there is. Basically, politics in such a centrally managed country as Denmark suffers from the huge mistake that it is not possible to experiment seriously with other ways of conducting politics than that which is decided upon at Christiansborg. In other words, all the positive things we see out there in free market players do not exist in politics. Actors in a free market can offer consumers what they want, and if they succeed, they will make very large profits, and if they do not succeed, they will go bankrupt. There is an experiment going on with how best to give consumers what they want. The consumers can then choose if they are not satisfied with Netto, instead to go into Facts etc. That is not the case in politics in Denmark. It is not the case that you can really get a different political system by moving from the City of Copenhagen to the Municipality of Frederiksberg. They are very similar, although there are differences. And it is, in fact, a mistake in politics that one cannot like experiment with going different ways so that one can see which way is best. A country like Switzerland has a very pronounced degree of autonomy in the cantons. There are different levels of income tax and different levels of corporation tax, and there are different benefits for people on transfer income, etc. I think, and we think, that we should find our way of doing it here in Denmark. I think it is a very modest and infamous attempt, as we are now doing with some free municipalities sometimes, and this proposal from the Left is a step further in that direction. And we're happy to take these little experiments, but we should have even greater ambitions. But because it is a step towards more political pluralism in Denmark, we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160534	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160538	Well, thank you very much to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And yes, the rapporteur has understood what I see in this, that is to say, the fact that we are different and that so are the municipalities. And there it is that too often here at Christiansborg we will squeeze everyone down into the same funnel so thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160602	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160604	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So now we have the last rapporteur, of course. I wonder who could miss it. We will, of course, conclude with the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160624	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to all parties that have been positive about this. I have sat and noted along the way, and it certainly seems that we may be able to land a joint report in committee, and I will look forward to working on that. I have to say that, personally, I simply have this basic belief that when we are free, we also get the best out of it. I believe that the employees who sit around the municipalities by having the freedom to influence some things themselves will succeed even more in achieving some good things. I can say that before I became a politician myself, I was employed at Grindsted Municipality for almost 18 years. During that time I actually met again and again examples of things that I would really like to throw myself into changing in the municipality, but which, frankly, was stopped by some demands or rules from Christiansborg, and which actually meant that the light was gradually turned off slightly in the eyes. Perhaps that was also what helped me to run for politics, because now I also had to go in and try to change some things. Because it is true, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also said, that we are different, and the municipalities are different. And it's different things they might be passionate about in these years, depending on who's on the city councils, or for that matter, who's in town halls or around the institutions. It may then be different things that you want to throw yourself into, and that is actually why we on the Left are quite frankly proposing that we take this step further so that we give even more freedom and allow the municipalities to actually allow things to grow from below with their commitment. So thank you so much. Finally, I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which is also in favour of this motion for a resolution. And then I look forward to the committee's work afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160833	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160848	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517160918	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution here, SF focuses on a key issue, namely how we can strengthen the organisation of the Danish labour market. The functionality and legitimacy of our well-functioning labour market model depends on a high degree of organisation, both on the employee side and on the employer side. It is therefore worrying that the organisation over a number of years has been declining, especially among traditional trade unions. They lift a great deal of social responsibility by concluding agreements broadly, by developing the field of training and by finding flexible solutions to accommodate the new forms of employment on the labour market, such as: in relation to those atypically employed and those who work via digital platforms. If we are to maintain a strong Danish model, it is important that there is a broad focus on the importance of employees and employers in all industries also in the future choosing to be a member of a trade union or an employers' association. It is therefore very important for the government that we strengthen the Danish model, but we must do so on an enlightened basis and in broad dialogue with among others. the social partners and experts in industrial relations. The Danish model contains the clear division of labour, that the social partners regulate pay and working conditions through agreements, and that the Folketing ensures that the social partners have the necessary framework to act within. The current rules on a tax credit of DKK 6,000. Every year for the union quota is an expression of a broad political desire to support the organisation of the Danish labour market and applies independently of the size of the quota and regardless of the tasks performed by each trade union. A debate about the importance of trade unions and increased organisation through tax deductions contains various aspects, but is basically about how we want to safeguard the Danish labour market model and also about how we develop it. In Denmark, Danish employees and employers can set up and join exactly the associations they want and also call them what they want. This also means that it is up to the individual trade union and its members themselves to determine what the union stands for and what tasks and what interest the association stands for. It is therefore up to the individual employee to decide with himself what one considers to be a trade union's core task and where one wants to be a member. This is the core of freedom of association in the Danish labour market. However, it is important to have the debate and remind each other of the role of professional organisations in our society and the tasks they undertake. It is at the heart of the Danish model that we have a high degree of organisation and that the majority of employees are covered by agreements. Agreements and large membership with the trade unions are the cornerstone of a strong and flexible labour market. It is a core task for a trade union to ensure proper pay and working conditions in the various disciplines. This is done by collective agreements and, where appropriate, by applying strikes and blockades in order to achieve that objective. And there is a difference between the so-called yellow trade unions and the traditional trade unions organized in the main organisations in FH and AC. The traditional trade union movement is based on professional affiliation and struggles to achieve broad wage and working conditions in the Danish labour market, but also to develop the labour market so that it is flexible and competitive. Among other things: Employment pensions and vocational training are examples of the traditional trade union movement carrying out tasks of social gravity. And the well-functioning shop steward system is an important element in a busy day-to-day business life where the shop steward is a key person in the day-to-day cooperation. Unlike traditional trade unions, the yellow organizations do not or to a limited extent use resources to obtain collective agreements in a professional field to the benefit of all employees, to fight to achieve collective agreements through strike or blockade, to develop and maintain a system of trust representatives and to develop and maintain the profession itself. It is appropriate to make it clear in the debate that there is a significant difference between the traditional trade unions and the yellow unions and the tasks they perform. And this must be borne in mind by the individual employee when choosing a trade union. The government agrees with the assessment of the challenges underlying the SF's motion for a resolution, which is why it is high priority for the government to strengthen the organisation of the Danish labour market. This applies both on the employee side and on the employer side. But we need to think carefully about what concrete measures will be appropriate. Here, adjustments to the rules on tax deductions can be one measure among several. In the first place, however, there is a need for a thorough analysis of the various aspects of strengthening the organisation. It also includes an analysis of the organisation on the employers' side and of the barriers to employees making a positive choice to be organized. Against this background, the government cannot support the resolution, but welcomes the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161431	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161434	Thank you for your speech, Minister. It shows clearly that the SF and the Socialists are broadcasting on the same channel when we talk about this. Nevertheless, I think that the Minister could be a little more specific in relation to what we do about it. In connection with the analysis mentioned by the Minister, I have here a very comprehensive analysis, which 3F had carried out a few years ago by the private company Implement Consulting Group. It shows that on the bottom line just in large numbers, if we add it all together, we save ourselves in 3F's field, of course in interaction with employers, society for over 2 billion. kr. a year by dealing with conflicts before they flare up. So isn't it just a matter of getting started in this direction? After all, it is a good business for society to have these contractual associations and employers' organizations, respectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161519	Mr. Karsten Hønge is absolutely right, and I am not a second in doubt about what that report shows. It only applies, as I remember, to the area of 3F, and it has been created and prepared before the Corona crisis, where we have really used the triangular tool actively and strongly and in reality shown how huge it is in the midst of a crisis to have a labour market that, both on the employers' side and on the employees' side, is prepared to take responsibility, but also to adapt, but it shows that it has helped to save Denmark a great deal of money. I do not disagree with Mr. Karsten Hønge in that we have a basic and it should also be a broad desire in the Danish Parliament to increase the organisation of collective labour unions. In relation to which precise grip we should use, I am not quite so convinced that the right thing is what the SF is proposing in the resolution, but we welcome the debate and agree that we, as Mr. Karsten Hønge expresses it, sends on the same frequency or channel, or how he now formulated it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161628	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161629	This is a very fine approach to my next question, which is quite simply: would it have been possible, with just a reasonable probability, for the government to pull us through the Corona crisis without having the trade union movement, which has legitimacy in the hinterland, and without the employers' organisations that have legitimacy in the hinterland, and to be able to make these 15 tripartite agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161653	It is my firm and full conviction that it would have been harder and probably also more expensive. It has really come to a country like Denmark well that we have organized a labour market as well as we have. The more people have used the picture that the corona crisis is also a magnifying glass for both our strengths and our weak points. It has clearly emerged that our well-organised labour market is a strength, but it is also clearly a slap in the face of a weakness that we can see that the organisation on both the employers and employees side has been decreasing over a number of years. I think that is clearly a discussion we should have together here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161734	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161736	Thank you. We now have trade union freedom in Denmark, fortunately for that. This proposal is, after all, a tax credit for the quotas. I agree with this that we must of course support the Danish model and all that, and I would like everyone to join an unemployment fund and a trade union for help, but I think the Minister believes that this is the case, for example. is the 69 kroner. a month, which the Trade Union House takes in union quota, which causes people to change? Those who have to pay 69 kroner. a month doesn't care about the small tax credit. It doesn't matter. It's not the tax credit that matters. You have to look at something else. The existing old trade unions have to look at: what is the reason why people change? It's not just because of this tax credit. You can take that as it is. But these are some other things that cause people to change, and that is where the old trade unions, for example. 3F, Danish Metal and HK, should look at: What is it that makes people change to some other unions? It is not always the quota that determines whether they change.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517161849	I think that there can be a point in that, and I also think it is important to make it clear: it is neither the responsibility of the Folketing nor the government to organise members, neither for trade unions nor for employers' organisations. It is basically up to them, and it has to reflect the strength they have. But it is clear: from here we can make decisions that make it either easier or harder. A number of decisions were taken in the years after 2001, which clearly helped to make it more difficult to organise members. But I think, sir. Bent Bøgsted is right that it is not necessarily the price in itself that makes you change the union. It can be anything from the shifts in the labour market to the extent to which one feels really presented in one place or another. On the other hand, I think that we should also reflect in our resolutions that where there is really a high level of social responsibility, there are among the organisations which draw up both agreements and take educational responsibility. I think that is also part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162000	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162001	It's fine. I should just like to hear the Minister: does the Minister think that it is fair and lawful to tell someone that they should be deducted from their trade union quota while others should not? I do not know if it is something of 600,000-700,000 that is part of some so-called yellow unions. Does the Minister think that they may not be deducted from their quota, but others may? I guess you can't legalize that and say that there has to be a difference between the system it's either-or.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162036	Without prejudice to my legal memory, I think it would be legally possible to say that we are only granting tax credits for contingent payments to organisations that are either contractual or educational, on the basis of a logic that it only makes sense that, through our common tax, we are granting tax credits for memberships where, in fact, we are also assuming a greater social role. Whether it is politically desirable or whether it will have the desired effect, in terms of what it is, in terms of conflict, even in relation to the unequal treatment that many would feel, I am more in doubt about. That is also one of the reasons why we are not prepared to support the SF's motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162118	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162119	Yeah, that's exactly what I'd like to dive into. Because now they say you're on the same side as SF in this. What about 11 per cent of those who are members of non-traditional trade unions are mistaken? Well, is it the government's opinion that they just haven't seen the light yet? Or have they actually just made some good choices on behalf of themselves and their families, compared to what they think is right in their lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162149-2	I am not in a position to express either a positive or a negative opinion on those choices. Well, people make choices and hopefully on an enlightened basis. However, I think it is a reasonable debate to have, in relation to when we choose to be able to deduct certain memberships from the tax, that we then agree on the purpose it serves. We are not where we are prepared to say that we do not think that people who are members of other organisations should also be able to deduct their quota. I simply do not believe that it would necessarily pursue the objective that I agree with, Mr President. Karsten Hønge in, namely that we want as many as possible to be a member of a collective and educational organization. And that is also why we do not support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162240	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162242	Yeah, well, I guess it has something to do with who you're gonna let be on the same page. In other words, it is clear that if there are some trade unions which have certain rights to perform certain tasks, then they can easily be given better conditions. But it may also be that there are others who would like to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162300	Yes, and basically, I know there is nothing in our legislation that prevents certain organisations from drawing up agreements. There are certain organizations which have chosen not to use the tools that are often used to conclude agreements. There are also some of these so-called yellow unions that have an agreement, so it has among other things. Krifa in a wide range of areas. And that's why it's not necessarily as black and white as I think it's made. On the other hand, I also think that the discussion on how to ensure that more people are members of a contractual organisation is important, because it is something that helps create a strong labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162343	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162345	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for indicating how the government feels about these matters. In September 2019, the Minister speaks out his personal opinion, and the Minister says that it is futile to make no distinction between trade unions. That is why I think that the good answer to the more than 300,000 or how many figures are slightly different, but at least several hundred thousand workers who are members of the yellow trade unions are to assure them that the Minister will work loyally in relation to his government and not allow his personal opinions to prevail.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162424	The beauty of being a politician is hopefully also that you have a lot of personal attitudes that you try to make into politics. However, the position I have also expressed on the platform here today is, of course, both the policy of the government and my personal position. I basically agree with what Mr. Karsten Hønge calls the frequency, that we have a desire for it should be a common wish all the parties of the Danish Parliament between • that as many employees as possible in this country were members of a collective union and were part of our well-organised labour market. But I do not necessarily believe that it serves any purpose to go in and make a very square division, because I think there must be smarter methods in it. On the other hand, I also believe that political decisions are, of course, instrumental in making it easy or difficult to actually organise employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162520	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162524	I would actually like to ask the Minister for Employment about paying tribute to being a union which is based on collective agreements, which is not only the government's policy, but is also the Minister's personal position. Where does that come from? Because when you look around the world, there are many different labour market systems out there, and what you can see is that it is labour productivity that determines how good wages you have out there, not whether there are agreements or not, and how much the unions are filling or not. For example: is the median income in a society such as the United States higher than in Denmark, despite the fact that the trade unions are extremely weak, and this is because it is labour productivity that determines how much it is paid. And it is not the trade unions that create labour productivity. So why do we really have to go through this always claiming that we have to thank the unions for having a good salary in Denmark when a sober viewer of the world tells us that it is not the unions that do it, but that it is productivity that does it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162630	I guess that's a lot of relationships at the same time. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen is right in saying that of course it is also labour productivity, but it is to a large extent also to what extent the labour force has a real opportunity and an equal relationship of strength to demand their rightful gain and product of the productivity gains and increases in prosperity that are being created. Well, now Mr. Ole Birk Olesen USA, and there you can see that there is a connection between the extent to which middle-class income is eroded from the 1970s onwards and the extent to which the organisation of the labour market falls.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162715	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162716	The American middle class is richer than the Danish, and that is why median income is higher in the United States than in Denmark. So I really just think that the Minister should also decide that what makes the salary rise is not the trade unions; that is the fact that a company that does not follow the wage level of its competitors is losing its workforce. We see that, for example. At the moment, when the state outstrips restaurants and others, because when the state offers high wages to people who graft, you cannot find servants in the restaurant business, you have to raise wages to find servants, and that is what increases wages, it is not the trade unions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162758	All I can say is that I strongly disagree with Mr. President. Ole Birk Olesen, for of course it matters, and of course it has also shown its value. One of the reasons why we are a society where employees have higher wages than there are in many other places, where we have greater freedoms as part of our working life, is indeed the results that have been negotiated home, which are also of great benefit to even the same companies, because it has also helped to contribute to a more productive workforce, and at the same time also that both sides have taken responsibility for creating training systems which they have actively co-owned and are constantly helping to refine, so that the workforce needed is adapted to the training that is required.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162842	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. The next to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517162854	Thank you. It can be said that the SF raises an entirely legitimate and, in itself, important issue with the resolution that we are going to discuss, namely the question of how we can strengthen the Danish labour market model. And it has to be said that there is no doubt that if we look at the organisation, perhaps particularly on the employees side, in what is called the traditional trade unions, several analyses and, in particular, the analysis that has come from the FAOS, which appeared earlier this year, show that there may be some kind of concern about this. What is crucial in the Danish labour market is that agreements are reached broadly and that the degree of organisation in the professional organisations is high. This is one of the basic prefaces of having this strong and flexible labour market for which we, at least from our side, are very fond, and for which we are also recognised in many places. That is why, of course, it is also an issue which we in the Social Democratic Party take very seriously and, as the Minister said today, we would very much like to discuss it. What the SF wants with the motion for a resolution is, of course, to hit the yellow trade unions, as it is screwed up here, by influencing the economic incentive to join the traditional trade unions. With regard to the difference between traditional trade unions and the yellow trade unions, we agree that it is important to bear in mind that traditional trade unions are solving, I think, some tasks of social gravity and helping to develop the labour market continuously. We see that, among other things. in the field of vocational training, where the parties concluded, before Christmas, a tripartite agreement aimed at securing more apprenticeships. We are currently engaged in a trialogue on sexual harassment in the workplace and, last but not least, it can be said that the traditional trade unions have been a very important part of many of the tripartite agreements that have helped to keep their hands on jobs and companies here in the coronatide. I think it is important to focus on the important differences that employees must bear in mind when organising themselves. Someone once said that nothing comes of itself, except pocket wool and window envelopes, and good pay conditions and working conditions do not come of their own accord. This is something that needs to be worked for. So we are in favour of strengthening the Danish labour market model, but one of the positive things has been that, when we have had such discussions, we have been very good at involving the social partners and experts in this field, so that this is done on an enlightened basis. I understand the intention behind the motion for a resolution, but there are also analyses which indicate that the challenge is not just about employees joining the yellow trade unions, because we are in favour of growth in this area. One might say that one of the main challenges in this respect is primarily that more workers do not organise themselves completely. In a study by Electica for NNF, the Danish El-Forbund, Blik & Rør and the Danish Federation of Painters, it turns out that a lot of Danes support the Danish model, and I think that is very good and positive. But it also turns out that this support seems to be falling in the young target group. For 19-29-year-olds, it is only 48% that corresponds to the fact that the Danish model is good for Denmark, and at least we think this is a concern and something we should take seriously somewhere, because it is the generation that is about to take over the labour market, and not least we must share the need for these future generations to commit themselves to defending and backing the Danish model. That is why, of course, I also agree with the Minister that we must strengthen the Danish model on an enlightened basis and seek more expert knowledge, because that is the way we ensure that the changes we make will also have an impact on a stronger model in the future. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution, but we agree that there are major challenges ahead that we need a strong trade union movement to deal with, and that is why I am pleased to hear the Minister's statements today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517163327	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517163331	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Møller referred precisely to the FAOS report which was published not long ago. The conclusion of the FAOS report is precisely that union membership is essential if we are to preserve the contractual model for our labour market. At the same time, it notes that the level of organisation is declining. That's what I'm gonna ask, sir. Henrik Møller's proposal is to hit the yellow ones, it does not do so; it is to be completely color blind to whether something is yellow or red but in relation to that if you are to have a tax credit, then you have to carry out a socially useful task, and there may be the ability to enter into agreements as such a good parameter. For, sir. Henrik Møller, what will the consequence be if this development continues? What is the effect on the labour market if employees are split up into a sea of different organisations or are not organized at all? So what dramatic consequences will this have for the labour market and for society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517163431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517163432	You can only guess. But I can say quite basically that it is certainly not an interest that we have on the part of the Social Democrats. We are also interested in having a strong trade union movement which is able to enter into agreements with employers. May I also say in this connection that this system does not only make sense in relation to the trade union movement alone. It also makes sense that we have employers who have organized themselves and with whom we can make some agreements. So I think it's both sides we're gonna get into the fight for this. Of course we can focus on price, of course price has some kind of importance in relation to this, but I just don't believe that it's the solution alone in relation to the challenges that are. What we see is that the approach is not there in relation to the trade union movement. I do not see anything that the SF's proposal solves. I think we need to have a broader debate on this and on how to make it attractive for these new generations to actually come in and organize themselves and preferably in my view to see a union that is able to make an agreement. Because I kind of agree with the scenario that if we don't get this collective agreement covered, the risk is ultimately that we have to make legislation in this area, and we certainly have no interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517163553	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517163554	Well, I totally agree with Mr. Knox. Henrik Møller in saying that this cannot stand alone and that it is not the only thing, and that is perhaps not the most important thing either. But it's one of several tools. I have not claimed that this should be the most important thing and that if we do this, we will change things completely. I just think this is one of several things that brings us towards saying: If you are doing a socially useful job, if you are helping to support the organised and regulated labour market, you can sign an agreement with 25%. of your members, then you can get a tax advantage, and you can't if you don't if you're just a business. Why should one say no to a tool, even though it is only one among many?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517163632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517163633	Well, because we're still not on the side of the Social Democratic Party, one hundred percent are convinced that this is the right way to do it. As I mentioned, we are taking part in a discussion on this, and then we must have different elements in play in relation to this. But right now, it's not this model that needs to be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517163655	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Sir. Stén Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517163714	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the SF, which raises the debate again. In the Left we are great supporters of trade unions and the Danish model. The fact that people are self-employed and without compulsion unite into communities that best serve their interests is, after all, a manifestation of the free choice of the individual. And then I don't think it's gonna be any more liberal. The fact that this can be done at all is due to the fact that we have freedom of association in Denmark. This means that we have the right to choose whether or not we want to be a member of an association and which association we want to be a member of. It is, in fact, one of the cornerstones of a democratic society, and it also applies when it comes to trade unions. In fact, I think most of us agree on that too. People in Denmark must be allowed to choose freely which trade union they want to be in and whether they want to be in one at all. We shouldn't interfere with that from in here. In the Left, we believe that the individual is best at assessing which associations best support the circumstances of the individual. But apparently the SF doesn't think so. With the SF's proposal to change the tax credit for trade union quotas, the red trade unions in particular will be better off, and this is because it is particularly the red trade unions who are meeting the demand in the SF's motion for a resolution here to enter into agreements for more than 25%. by their members. At the same time, SF proposes that unions which have not concluded agreements for more than 25%. of their members, should not be able to obtain tax credits for their membership quotas at all. This means that these trade unions and, ultimately, their members will be made significantly worse financially as a result of the SF's proposals here. In other words, the SF will discriminate between different types of trade unions. It must be more expensive to be a member of a yellow union and cheaper to be a member of a red. We cannot, of course, participate in this in the Left. That is also why the Left opposed the proposal when the SF made a similar proposal for the first time here in 2018. The position of the Left remains unchanged. In the Left, we continue to believe that freedom of association is one of the cornerstones of a democratic society and a prerequisite for the Danish model. But that is obviously not the case when it comes to SF. As I mentioned earlier, the personal position of the Minister for Employment is that it is entirely futile that there can be no discrimination between yellow and red trade unions. I have to say here that apparently not many people in the Social Democratic Party listen to the Minister's personal convictions. There is nothing new about this either, in other words, that the Socialists want to restrict freedom while we Liberals want to defend it. In the Left we believe that we are defending freedom, in this case freedom of association, best by voting against the resolution as it stands here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164008	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164010	Yes, I do not give five flat ears for the freedom that Stén Knuth stands and argues for: freedom to first run corners with union members, freedom to run corners with taxpayers afterwards. That is what we are talking about here. They're people who live on stolen goods. There are others in the deal, and these people take all the benefits without lifting a finger. Is that freedom? It's not at all. But we fully agree that there must be freedom of association in Denmark. Surely no one is questioning it. The question here alone is this: should we, as a taxpayer, prize the people who carry out social work by making collective agreements? That's the only dividing line there is. Of course, freedom of association lies there, but should we go in and support associations that do not lift a finger for labour market work? I actually thought the Left was more critical of people on passive support, but apparently they are not. Let me conclude by asking: I have here a report which shows that in the 3F area alone, together with their employers, together with the organized employers, there is, of course, a saving of over 2 billion in society. kr. A year because we can resolve the conflicts before they come out of proportion. That is the whole difference between so-called red and so-called yellow unions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164114	I don't think the yellow unions will agree with Mr. Karsten Hønge in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164121	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164122	No, they are not trade unions; they are business, ordinary private business. We don't give them a deduction. But may I ask: how does the Left feel about subsidising some business where one of them spends 65%? of the membership budget to advertise for themselves, so not advertise for professional matters, it could be better pension conditions or better working environment, or what do I know, but only these advertisements that run in loops on local radios: just join in? That's what they use 65 percent. On. And now that we are about to be liberal and the freedom of association: why can't we know what these people who sit at the top of the Krifa and the Trade Union House get in wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164155	I can't answer that. But what I can answer is that in this way we share the view of the government that there must be free trade union elections, whether it be higher or lower quotas and whatever content.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164214	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164243	Thank you. After all, this proposal is about whether you should have a tax credit for your union quota or whether you shouldn't have to go if you're not in the right trade union, after Mr. Karsten Hønge's opinion. It is, after all, a very ideological proposal. We just have to acknowledge that we have seen it before, and that is fair enough, because I think that Mr. Karsten Hønge is one of the most intrusive and persistent in the Folketing on this matter. And Mr. Karsten Hønge never concealed, that is, that he's passionate about this case, and that's fair enough. You have to burn for what you believe in. But having said that, I must also say that in the Danish People's Party we believe that if you are part of a trade union and there is a deduction for union quota, then of course you should also have the right to that deduction. Then you should not distinguish between which trade union you are part of, so either you have to abolish it completely or everyone has to have it. This is the position that we have in the Danish People's Party. So we think that we should stick to the fact that the deduction has to be there. We do not think that we should deprive employees of the right to deduct rooms, even those in the yellow trade unions. And when I say it is purely ideological, it is because it is not the tax credit, for example. in relation to the Professional House, which makes people run away screaming if they don't get a tax credit. They pay 69 kroner. a month, as I recall. It is not, of course, the tax credit that is of great importance to them in this matter. But something else that we need to look at seriously is: what is the reason why people leave the established old trade unions? Why are they changing to something else? It's not just because of the price. Some do. Some change because of the price, but not everyone changes because of the price. We also have to recognise that there are a great many employees. And when I say employees, ordinary employees, it is because we can see that academics and managers have increasing numbers. They're not the ones losing members. But it's FH, the main organization, and some of the unions inside that lose members. So you have to look at yourself: what is the reason why people change to another union? And as late as here on February 22, 2021, it sounded, quote: We need to look at ourselves in the seams. That's what Mr. Henning Overgaard from 3F in recognition that there is something that causes you to opt out of 3F in relation to the union. And as you must look at what 3F delivers and people are dissatisfied with. It's not just the price, I don't think so. We must also recognise that there is some political conviction in this. I have met a great many people who are absolutely not in favour of either Social Democracy, the SF or the Enhedslisten, and who think it is good to be a union, but they want to get into another where they are seen in a different way. I myself have been on the labour market and also met a shop steward who said that he wanted me to go where the pepper grows because I was not a socialist. That's the kind of thing that makes people change. They say: I'm unwanted in this union; then I might as well switch to someone else. And that is why it is necessary for the established trade unions to look inwards against themselves: what is the reason for this, what are we doing wrong? Have we survived ourselves after the over 100 years we have been on the labour market in the Danish model that we safeguard? Are you gonna rethink it? There must be room for everyone, and there must be room for you to be red or for you to be blue. Once upon a time, if you were a worker, you were red. You're not today. Many are neutral, many are blue, and many are still red. But you have to look at what people want in a union. That is what the established unions have to look at; look into themselves in order that they can pull people back into the fold again. Because they're doing a good job. They do a great deal in the labour market, and we must safeguard that, and I am very much in favour of keeping the Danish model with the model of the agreement. But the trade unions have to look at themselves: what is it that scares members away from us? And that's not just the price.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164754	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164757	I fully agree with Mr. Bent Bøgsted in that there are many other reasons than the economy in that we agree on that, of course. I still find it a little striking, because if you go to Krifa's website, that's what they advertise: With us you get full tax credit for your quota. Similarly at the Professional House. Here they say about the limitation of trade union quotas that it does not matter to them when you are a member of the trade union body. So they use it to recruit but otherwise we agree. These are other things that need to be done if you are to attract members, no doubt about it. I just think that when mr. Bent Bøgsted says that this trade union thing should have been split up after Mr. Bøgsted. Karsten Hønge's opinion is that I put in completely objective criteria: is it possible to draw up agreements for 25% and 25%? I guess it is precisely on the basis of an objective criterion and not on the basis of which trade unions or associations I should like. The fact that it is ideological differences does so is something I simply do not agree with, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted in other ways than that Mr. Bent Bøgsted himself says his great support for the Danish model. It is an ideology and I agree with it. But you cannot have the Danish model without having members of the trade unions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517164908	Oh, well, that's true. I think that the Danish model is a good one, even though I have met some of these really hard-skinned red shop stewards who wanted to go where the pepper grows because you didn't have the same conviction. Then it is just that I say just as quietly: it is some of the things that can scare people away and make them say that they choose another union if that is the way it should be. That is why the trade unions need to look inward and say that there must be room for everyone. I would like, for example, to say that we are in agreement with the Commission's proposal. 3F and Metal, of which I am a member, have room for everyone and that they can convince their members why it is good to be with them and why they should not just switch to another union. That is why the trade unions must sell themselves with the products they have. I do not think it is right to advertise the price. That is not what has to sell a union; it is by convincing Members that it is here that they get something for their money that they must be members here with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165014	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165015	Well, again, I have to say that I fully agree with Mr. Bent Bøgsted. And it's totally unfair if Mr. Bent Bøgsted or anyone else by a trade union representative or by a shop steward should be beaten out because of the party they vote for. That doesn't belong anywhere. We are in the trade union because we have the same professions and because we are in the same jobs that is crucial. Then it doesn't matter which parties we vote for. I'm just gonna give mr. Bent Bøgsted is totally supportive that it doesn't belong anywhere. But I'd still like to ask Mr. Bent Bøgsted, what he thinks of this is that tax credits are granted to businesses which at least for the Trade Union House use 65 per cent. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165055	I don't want to be smart about how much they keep a secret about wages, but I think it should be public what they get paid. It is also public that for example. 3F probably has Denmark's largest money tank among trade unions. It may also seem to Members that it could benefit them a little more. I'm not the one who's supposed to run a union, and I'm lucky I never will. But I still think that trade unions should look inwards and look a little more at what they are offering their members for their quota. Is this a miscalculation of what to offer? Maybe you need to see it a little differently and rethink it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165140	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted. There are no more brief comments, so the rapporteur may just prepare for the next rapporteur. The next to speak is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165216	Thank you very much. I think that the SF raises an important and fundamental question. This is because every time we talk about our labour market and talk about how good it is that we have the Danish model and that it is so much better than everyone else, there is one thing that is continuous, and that is that we have a single trade union movement, and that is really what is essential. If you work for a variety of trade unions, you work for the French model, and the French model says that it is most important that the trade unions in question compete with each other, but that is not what we have thrown our lot on in this country, because there we have worked with a single trade union movement. That does not mean that there are no differences within it. I have spent quite a lot of years of my life trying to keep the bottom of a trade union movement that has, of course, made many mistakes over the course of time. I believe, for example, that one of the most important factors leading to the apostasy of the trade union movement that we are currently seeing is in fact the centralisation that has taken place, because that is what makes the situation of the individual difficult to be active and participating in his union. Such a thing is important, and I think that should be maintained as an opportunity, but it is not if you only have an office in Aarhus and Copenhagen. That is why there are quite a lot of factors involved, and if we want to defend the union trade union movement as a part, a foundation of our labour market model, then there are several things we should take initiatives on. One of them is for example. the rule, introduced some years ago, that you had to be at least 50,000 members in order to be able to retain an A-box and at least 5,000 in the individual. Such things contribute to making it difficult to have a trade union movement that is active and based on members' activities. Our labour market is changing at the moment, and it is doing so with great haste, and that hangs, among other things. together with new conditions such as platform economy and such things, and this helps make it much, much harder to maintain an organizational level. We therefore need to play all the strings that can be in order to ensure a level of organisation that will enable us to maintain the factor inherent in our labour market structure, namely that we have two sides and the two sides face each other, and the two sides need an organisation in order to have an organised relationship with their differences. That is what I think is the epitome of the Danish model. So all in all, it is actually important to work to maintain what I call the unitary trade union movement, and I think we should do that in many different ways, and one of them is what the SF proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165511	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Mads Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165526	Thank you for that, thank you to the SF for the proposal, and thank you to the parties for an exciting debate. After all, we are all proud of our Danish model and the principles on which it is based. We usually get praise for that too in the big world, and of course we should be happy about that. The social partners conclude the major agreements on wages, conditions and working conditions with as little interference from the legislator as possible. We must always develop our Danish model, and we must always change to preserve at a time when our society is constantly moving. The Danish model is based on basic concepts such as flexibility, freedom and self-regulation. We in the Conservative People's Party find that rather bad with words such as pre-distribution, distortion of competition and forced organisation, and that would therefore be the result if the proposal were implemented here. The fact that employees are less and less organized in trade unions can be an expression of a trend in society. We are, for example. also to a significantly smaller extent a member of party associations than we were just 20 years ago, and that is, if you disregard trends in opinion polls, which is probably very good. As a society, we can do everything we can to change those trends, and that is a challenge that needs to be solved, but in a different way. I also imagine that the aim, when a tax deduction was made years ago for trade union quotas in general, was to provide incentives to be a member of a trade union, but there should therefore be no difference between the color or observance of the trade unions when it comes to the tax credit of the individual citizen. It's either-or. Then I would just like to repeat that perhaps we should use the development of these numbers in our trade unions and see it as a trend in society, and perhaps it should be resolved at a different level and on a completely different blade. Perhaps we should think newly and go with the parties to a discussion about the common challenge, that fewer and fewer organize themselves. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165720	Then there is a brief comment. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165723	Yes, yes, it is talk, talk and tribute to the Danish model, while the Conservatives look passively at the yellow trade unions like bog pigs undermining the model that has just been celebrated. It does not belong anywhere, because you cannot at the same time say that you pay tribute to the Danish model, while you look passively at the fact that there are drill beetles in the carrying woodwork or bog pig that undermine that model. That is why I would like to ask the Conservatives precisely that this is what is in favour of the competition of companies, namely that it takes place on as fair terms as possible; that we have an orderly and regulated labour market. So if you now see the system collapse, what it will do at some point, if more and more people are not there, where the agreements are concluded with the serious employers, then it will end up hitting employers as hard as it hits employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165808	Yes, thank you. On a totally equal footing with the employees, of course, employers must also be invited into the debate on how we can develop our Danish model. But perhaps we also just have to face up to the fact that this is a trend and that it is something that is developing and that, whatever we have to look into, we have to look into embracing the unions that are currently experiencing growth, and perhaps learn from some of the elements that they are using, in relation to the fact that the broad level of organisation can increase and that we can become stronger on that part. I just think that one has to face up to the fact that the development of society is also that we, as citizens, organise ourselves less and less in associations in this way, and that we are increasingly choosing it according to what we can immediately see as our own needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165851	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165852	Yeah, we know the egoist again. Then you know the selfish thing the Conservatives are talking to here, the one who sits at home with his own wallet and thinks: Ah, what is best for me; can I now avoid paying to the community, which by the way gives me all the benefits, and then get away with it a little cheaper? I actually thought that the Conservatives had a higher morale and a higher morale compared to bypassing stolen goods. These are fence goods; some parties enter into agreements, others are hiding from them. Is that really what the Conservative policy means, that everyone answers his or hers, and in general honesty, in relation to paying for the cost of what he or she is now taking?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165928	At any rate, we can say from the Conservative People's Party that, while we are celebrating the Danish model of flexibility, freedom and self-regulation, it is a little vague that we should at the same time be discussing whether we should put tax deductions on some trade unions and not tax deductions on some others. That is what the proposal is about. At the same time, I hear myself saying that I would like to be invited to a debate with the professional organisations on how we can strengthen the organised part of Denmark and thus create new growth in that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517165956	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, who is preparing for the next rapporteur, who is from New Citizens. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517170014	When I hear such a debate about the unions, I feel like I'm referring to the story of Monopoly and the Ladies' Magazine or at least a story about some who have a store and can't understand that people no longer bother to shop in their store, and instead of looking at what might have gone wrong with their store, both those who have left the store, but also other stores, blame for having some other goods and some other products that people would rather have. It's also very easy. In this way you can live with your head in the sand without dealing with the real problems that exist. This is the case for many of these trade unions who have experienced a declining number of members. Why is that? Yeah, if it's up to SF and sir. Karsten Hønge, it's because someone has come to steal their customers. The free will, the will of the people or the ability to choose for themselves do not exist in the socialist camp. The story for all of us is probably someone else. It's probably that these old, traditional unions have stood firm and stood still for far too long. The world has moved on and they haven't gone with it. A lot of people I talk to by young people who opt out of these old trade unions opt out of them because of the political part of it. Young people do not think so. I can take myself as an example. When I as a teacher had to choose whether to join the Danish Teacher's Association, I also chose it from, because it was a political movement that spent much of their energy on it and not on ensuring good working conditions for me and my colleagues. I remember a debate where I had actually raised it with trade unions. At that time there was actually a fairly high level of unemployment in the teaching profession, and I said: how about we suggest that we fix the teacher's salary in the next period and then use the money that the municipalities will save on it to hire more colleagues? That would be solidarity. That would surely make it possible for our unemployed colleagues to come in. We'd get better working conditions. But no, no, no, no, no. It would not go in the political world of the trade unions. I think a lot of people have had enough of that. They don't want to, and so they go to other places where they can get rid of that part of it. This proposal speaks in terms of giving a helping hand from here to those trade unions who are not willing to look inwards who are not willing to renew themselves. Then it is clear that if trade unions can just send the Socialist People's Party in the field to do their job, then it will all be much easier. But I don't think that's the right solution. Because they'll still be lazy in three years, in five years, and then we'll be in exactly the same discussion again. So my call must therefore be to the trade unions who see their members disappear: ask them then. Ask them why it is they don't find value in it, and then listen to them, and change the things. Perhaps it may also be that these young people or people who just enter the labour market and work out in the private sector for some wages that are not very high, look at these union bosses and wonder why the hell they are sitting and getting over a million. kr. In terms of salary. Maybe they're looking at an HK boss who can choose to resign at the age of 60, and then he can walk for six years, paid by the members, for two thirds of his salary, which was 88,000 DKK. a month. That means he can run around and get 58,000 kroner. a month for the next six years to do nothing. Maybe the young people are just smarter than that and don't want to put up with it anymore. They've had enough of that pamphlet. That's why they turn their backs on it. I don't see that as a sign of disease. In fact, I see that as a sign of health. The young people demand more, they want more, and they do not accept the classic pamphlet that has been in these unions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517170455	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517170459	I noticed that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen said that there were people looking into stores where there were other goods and other products on the shelves. I think there was a letter missing. There must be other products and other products on the shelves, because that is what is in the yellow ones. Because they do not have any products themselves, but they have other products: the products of the trade union movement on the shelves, where they get all the benefits, because the trade union movement has made territorial agreements, so everyone is covered by them. So what happens here, if you have to stick to the Matador picture, is that you go in and insist on buying the dress in the Ladies' Magazine, but you also insist on paying the bill over in Skjern's Magazine. However, you have to pay the bill in the store where you buy the goods, its own goods. But now I would like to ask: if New Citizens distance themselves well, I think that the Liberal Alliance's so wild West-liberalism is what Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's assessment, if we imagine employees being divided at a sea of different organizations without fixed agreements, where we do not know how long our working hours are? Because it's in the deal. You don't know when the overtime payment will come into effect. What will this lead to? Who's gonna be the weak side there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517170606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517170608	In New Citizens we probably generally have a little more confidence in the citizens out there than you have in the SF. We believe that the citizens will organise themselves where they gain from it. We believe that when there is an increasing number of citizens who choose to move into some other trade unions and opt out others, it is because they think they get a better product there for what they pay. Is there something wrong with that? In Mr. Karsten Hønge's world you have to go in pay 6,000 DKK. for a TV where you could have got it at 4,000 kroner. If you think it's the same television and you think it's just as good value in it, and you watch TV just as well, then you have to pay for the expensive television. I understand that in socialist thinking, where economics and understanding of commerce mean nothing. Fortunately, the Danes are smarter out there. They can see a good deal and a sensible deal when they stand in front of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517170655	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517170656	No, the Danes are not fences, and that's what's happening here. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen says they like the product. Yes, they can, because it is someone else's product that you go in and take and get the benefits of without paying for it. That's what this is about. Then one can understand that until the system may collapse someday, it is tempting for some who have no self-respect at all, cannot see themselves in the mirror in the morning, to choose to go to the store and take the products and refuse to pay for them. But now I can do one thing here. For Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen mentioned a situation in HK. The reason why we can even discuss here the remuneration of a President of the HK Federation is that it is open and transparent. What does Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen to the lack of transparency, the total secrecy about what the heads get in the Krifa and the Professional House?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517170737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517170738	I think it took me two seconds to google. I think from 2012 they got 1.6 million. kr. But I guess you can just google into that. Then there is an explanation why it is that a party like New Citizens is the second largest when it comes to the workers out there. Then it's because we believe in the workers out there. We don't want to sit in here and dictate that they're going somewhere. We believe that they can easily make those decisions. The workers out there have had enough of the pamphlet that they see from some of the traditional unions, and therefore they are seeking away.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517170814	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. If sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen will just prepare for the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, that would be fine. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517170841	Back in the 1990s, when I was young, I could spend a lot of time going into the startling Internet forums that were then. These were fora where there were some astrologers, and they had the idea that the way the stars and celestial bodies stood when people were born was simply absolutely crucial to people's lives. Then I discussed it with them, and I thought it was extremely funny, and I put up one piece of evidence after another that it wasn't true what they said. But I also found quite quickly that it is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends on him not understanding it. And these astrologers made money trying to convince people that the location of the stars at people's birth was crucial to people's lives. That is why, of course, I could not convince them that it was wrong, because if they did not believe it, they could not earn that money anymore. Here in the Folketing there is one red politician after another who has earned his money in the trade union movement. I also think that the Minister for Employment has worked for the trade union movement at some point. Sir. Karsten Hønge has worked for the trade union movement. Lots of red politicians have had student jobs, shop stewards' jobs or positions on which they have earned money, and they have also been supported in the election campaign by the trade union movement. Up to the 2019 elections, the trade union movement ran a big, big campaign. It cost millions and millions. It was cleverly made and was about Denmark being extremely skewed since 1992; everything was better in 1992, but because of all the bourgeois governments that had been since, Denmark had now become a really bad place to be, that is, understood: Now we had to have a red government again. So the red parties and the red politicians earn their money from the trade union movement and from expressing the views of the trade union movement, and they are helped to enter the Folketing with the support of the trade union movement. That is why it is very difficult to get the red politicians to understand what can otherwise be understood if you have taken a university degree as an economist or labour market researcher, namely that it is not the trade union movement that ensures that we have proper pay and working conditions in Denmark. Because when you look out into the world, you can see that there are plenty of countries that have as good pay and working conditions as Denmark, many even have better pay and working conditions than Denmark, without having this organisation of the labour market that we have. I mean, it shouldn't be possible if you'd think Mr. Keen... Karsten Hønge. He believes that it is the trade union movement itself and the particular part of the trade union movement that draws up agreements that are responsible for our well-being in Denmark. That is why they must have a deduction which other parts of the trade union movement, i.e. trade unions, which may not be known as trade unions, should not have, because they do not contribute to all this good, as Mr. Karsten Hønge and other red politicians see that the red unions contribute. But it's completely impossible to get Mr. Karsten Hønge and others to understand that that is not what does it. What does this is: When employees in a particular industry build up skills and when the employer invests in the production equipment, then employees can produce more per year. tomorrow, than they could yesterday, the basis for a higher salary rises. When different companies do the same, they start to compete for the labour force, for the more you have employed, the more you can earn, and then labour shortages gradually arise, and then wages increase, regardless of whether there are unions or not. We see it, for example. In the crafts sector, where there are often periods where there is a shortage of labour among bricklayers and carpenters, wages rise completely independently of whether people are members of any union or not. That is why we are voting against this motion for a resolution, which claims, as it were, that some trade unions are doing something socially useful by drawing up agreements because they claim that the agreements are what ensure that Denmark is a rich country and that people are doing well. We are voting against because we simply disagree, and because most thinking people disagree with this, but the Reds can't actually convince because you can't get a man to understand something when he earns his salary not to understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517171305	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517171308	I understand that the whole foundation bottle in mr. Ole Birk Olesen's speech is simply that the luminous intellectual lighthouse of the Folketing, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, can spread his wisdom to all of us who are almost idiots, have not understood anything and only do things because we have not understood the big context. But I would like to say that it could be that it was about something more objective: Do you do a professional job at all? You can measure it and draw an agreement, or do you not? You do a lot of other things, and an agreement is an expression, a parameter you can measure on. It could also be done in relation to whether or not people have been chosen in the workplace, etc. I would just like to finish off with the insinuation in which it is stated, among other things. I myself should have made money from the trade union movement, to announce that during the 16 years I was elected president of a trade union, I was elected by the members by roll-call votes. People got it was then sent a written piece of paper where they could tick. So all the years I've been there, it's only been on an elected mandate, and by the way, my salary was what corresponds to a primary school teacher's, so don't insinuate that you do it for the money's sake.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517171414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517171415	Well, I don't suppose that sir. Karsten Hønge would have the post if there had not been any money associated with it. Well, I don't think sir... Karsten Hønge would do it for free, after all. So let's assume that Mr. Karsten Hønge, when he was a trade unionist and was paid for it, went to work, also because he was paid, and thus similar to Mr. Karsten Høngge very many other red politicians here in the Folketing. One has simply earned one's money and one still earns money from supporting the trade union movement and being part of the trade union movement, because one also gets support in the election campaign from people in the trade union movement, and then one puts them forward. So, SF is such a mailbox that the trade union movement can put its resolutions in and then they are put in here in the Parliamentary Chamber. And congratulations, sir. Karsten Hønge. Sir. Karsten Hønge could also have been a good mailman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517171504	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517171506	But what is fantastic about the trade union movement is that it is Denmark's largest popular democratic movement that involves thousands of active people out there, and since I was a happy carpenter apprentice who went into short pants and was active in the Apprenticeship Association, the body of the trade union movement itself has not been made up of those who are employed or those who have been elected, but of the thousands of people who every day work in the jobs actually that we have a labour market that is both flexible and dynamic and takes care of everyone. I think it is interesting, by the way, and I would like to shine on the luminous intellectual lighthouse of the Danish Parliament, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, when it comes to who you feel responsible for. I recall just who started the Liberal Alliance, and so, from experience of your own, I assume that you know that there is a close link between who you get the money from and who you're a boy for, isn't it, sir? Ole Birk Olesen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517171546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517171547	I've had short-term relationships with various sponsors of the Liberal Alliance. I do not think anyone from the outset is still hanging on, and that is often the case in politics, that is to say, at some time someone wants to support you, and at other times there is not. But the trade union movement and the red parties, the trade union movement and Karsten Hønge, have been hanging together for decades, even centuries, so it is like a really solid partnership where one service is worth the other, and we see that every week in the Chamber when Mr. Karsten Hønge and others make suggestions on behalf of their financial supporters.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517171621	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and then we are through all the rapporteurs, except the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals. Sir. Karsten Hønge from SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517171638	You know that trade unions have many different songbooks, and you take them out in all sorts of contexts. In these yellow divisive organizations, there's especially a song that hits, and that's this song from the band Folkeklubben. They've got a terrific hit called Fedderøv. You know, it's this song where this individual always succeeds in getting out of the cab and leaving the bill to the others. The same sad creativity he shows when laps are ordered at the tavern. When it's his turn, he's going home all of a sudden. Of course, the community can cover the bill when individuals take off the beer box or the cake box at work without paying. For shorter periods, you can participate in a lunch scheme without paying, but at some point the other participants will demand that everyone contribute. If it is a very large food club, you can bear with individuals who are forks to themselves without paying, but what happens if the group of free riders, Nasser, or whatever else we can call them, grows larger? Yeah, either you get everyone to pay, or you take down the food club. And who, by the way, can look at themselves in the mirror when others pay for the food that you enjoy without giving anything in return? Where is respect for colleagues? And above all, where is self - respect? The Danish model for the labour market is brilliant, it is sophisticated, it gives us flexibility and dynamism, and at the same time we have one of the most stable and quiet labour markets. This is because we regulate working conditions through collective agreements, and we have even built in a fantastic system for dealing with conflicts. But nothing is possible if those organisations do not have legitimacy in the hinterland, and that is precisely because they are democratic organisations on both sides of the table and because they actually represent the members that the Danish model works. A comprehensive study conducted by the private company Implement Consulting Group for 3F I am dealing with this from a few years ago showing the financial value of strong professional organisations on both sides of the table. In 3F alone, we are talking about 40,000 conflicts and disputes that have been resolved and three out of four resolved in the workplace. At formal and legal level, 3F handles only approx. 10,000 larger and smaller cases, i.e. approx. 30 a day. It is a huge gain for all of us, for the whole of society, and it is estimated to have a value in the region of 2 billion. kr. alone within 3F's territory. The right to deduct taxes must be linked to the ability to draw up agreements. If you do not contribute with socially useful work by being an active partner in our brilliant Danish model for the labour market, then taxpayers should also not lend a helping hand. The dissension organizations nudge on agreements for which others have worked hard and then receive support from the state. First they run around corners with organized employees and then they run around corners with taxpayers. It has to stop. The entry fee for deductions from the union quota or the main association to which the association is affiliated shall be a proof that one is able to sign an agreement for at least 25%. of the members. Something to say, I guess. Or to put it another way: no arms, no cookies. Krifa, the Trade Union House, Free and Ase have nothing to do with trade unions. If you spend the day lying on the divaneser, you must yourself to your pockets, i.e. your own pockets well to feel. The right to deduct taxes is therefore not about red or yellow trade unions, but about the will to do socially useful work. When the nudges can no longer receive the tax rebate, the saved money can then be used to give full right of deduction to the collective trade unions. But what do these businesses do, because they have nothing to do with trade unions, so their millions of tax credits? A very large item in the budget, in fact 65 per cent, at the Professional House consists of advertising for itself, not for matters relating to the labour market, it could be a campaign for better pension conditions and working conditions or for training courses, but only to get people to join. We know the commercials, they run in loops on many local radios. Other yellow shops also have extremely large advertising budgets. It is, of course, perfectly acceptable with legitimate media campaigns for cases that can help ordinary employees, for example. is about pension conditions, the fight against social dumping or better professional training • but that most money is spent on banal advertisements for membership and platter messages and on discount quotas in relation to the right trade unions, should not be supported by society. For all of us who pay a quota every month to the union, it is a strong diet to go to Krifa's website, where they directly advertise that here you get a full tax credit for your quota, or to go to the Professional House, where they similarly write that it has no meaning at the Professional House that there is a limit to how much you can deduct, because with them the whole quota can be deducted from. They are very open about the tax credit, but close in like oysters when it comes to how to pay off management. After all, it does not make much sense to have the trunk in the pockets of taxpayers and trade union members while keeping the remuneration of management virtually secret. The last figure I can find for Krifa's President is from 2002, when the President got 1.7 million. kr. In terms of salary. I wonder what it really is today. The right to deduct a quota in tax is fair because it is a relevant cost for doing its job. Trade unions enter into agreements with employers, train shop stewards, work with a healthy working environment, negotiate tripartite agreements with politicians, participate every day in the work on initial and continuing vocational training, combat social dumping, etc. Of course, these yellow shops can work with a low quota when they don't do any professional work, but come on, they must have a bad taste in their mouths. You can also buy cheap stolen goods or get black work done, but what happened to self - respect? I really think that corona has rarely shown the importance of a strong trade union movement. During the last Corona year, the trade union movement has concluded 15 • stresses 15 • tripartite agreements with employers and the state, and this has been crucial to getting the whole society through the crisis. This has been to the benefit of the individual employee, the companies and society alike. And the picture was the same: The yellow forks again all the benefits, but once again left the work to the members of the unions. Society mind is a much used word here under corona, and it actually describes very well the feeling and value that makes us move together. When we get under pressure, we stand together and help where we can do our own way. We reach out to each other and we see that as humans we are not isolated islands, but are connected. We depend on each other. The trade union movement has played a huge role in getting us all through, including the employees, the unemployed and the sick. The quota for trade unions is something we give to each other, it is solidarity. Tax for the welfare society is something we give to each other, it is socialism. Professional solidarity and socialism are related to each other. So now you have to choose. You cannot give meaningful tribute to the Danish model for our labour market and passively see that the yellow nasse shops are growing. It is simply not possible to like only some of the labour market. When you, and I'm sure you've noticed, come out and look at a house, there are some people who say that there are some amazingly beautiful twigs on that house, and that's typical because they're made of carpenters, and then you stand there and you say that it's a fantastic nice twig, and that you just want to buy the twig. Buying the coffin? You can't buy the coffin without taking the rest of the roof with you. But all I want is the coffin. Okay, I'll agree to get the roof too. But you can't buy the roof without also bringing the walls, and the walls you can't get without getting the foundation with. You cannot pull individual parts out of the Danish model and then imagine that it is going on. Some people here believe that you can only buy the roof, just the roof, which consists of dynamics, flexibility, the adaptable labour market, which is also of huge benefit to employers and to our business community, without wanting to have the walls and foundations, and the walls and foundations are membership of trade unions, while employers are members of their organisations and have legitimacy in the hinterland, so that agreements can be enforced after they have been concluded. You can't both blow and have flour in your mouth. Today there is then a suggestion that we do not distinguish between red and yellow, because this is not a color game, but a sober assessment where an appropriate parameter would be whether one has been able to draw agreement, for what I think is very modest, 25%. the members of the main organization in which the association operates, and this shows that a socially useful job is done in the workplace, which of course also includes training, representatives of confidence, health and safety representatives, workplace clubs and all sorts of other things. That is the parameter we put in place, and then we support the Danish model. But there is no need to support business that just wants the benefits without participating in the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517172615	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517172619	In New Citizens we have nothing against the trade union movement, and if there are citizens out there who want to be members of 3F, HK, Frie or Krifa, they must be free from it. We show confidence in the citizens. The SF's rapporteur stands on the platform and compares the yellow trade unions with some who sell stolen goods. It's criminal. There are approx. 500,000 Danes who are members of a yellow union. Does the rapporteur really believe that the 500 000 Danes are criminals and buy stolen goods?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517172658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517172659	I have far, far higher expectations of Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's intellectual profits and that he could understand that it was an image. I'm quite sure of it, otherwise Mr. Knox would. Lars Boje Mathiesen disappoints me cruelly. It is about the fact that some trade unions and trade unions have concluded agreements, and then others go in and lie in shelter from them. They are completely sheltered from them, for they get all the benefits that are. Who would know what working hours would be if we did not have an agreement as it stands? Now we are pretending that we all believe it is 37 hours, but we only know that because it is in an agreement. As a member of a yellow organisation, you can come to your employer and say that you want to work 37 hours a week, but why that; why not 50 hours, and why not half the wage? That's because we have some trade unions that hold their hands. That is why this is not a question of yellow and red trade unions, because the yellow ones are not trade unions, but business. It is a business that has a purely economic objective: to make money. You shouldn't give them a tax credit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517172754	Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517172757	I understand that sir. Karsten Hønge is busy backing up faster than a Scania, because when you call something fenced, you also call the people who buy those goods criminals. Here we go, sir. Karsten Hønge might remember that it may not, after all, be so clever to call half a million Danes criminals. But that's what he did, and then he has to stand by it, if that's what he means.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517172821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517172821-2	Of course I stand by it. It's not just something I'm saying. I wrote it in the paper, and when it's in the paper, it's gotta be true. I call this method of circumventing agreements in terms of stolen goods, in that these shops take agreements concluded by some others and allow their members to benefit from it without contributing. That doesn't belong anywhere. They must, moreover, be members of the associations they wish to be members of, but we should not give them a direct tax advantage of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517172846	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no more brief comments. We're gonna have to get the booze off. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517172904	The debate is open. First of all, we must welcome the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517172926	Thank you very much. And thank you for the opportunity to discuss the Danish holiday money system, not least, of course, for once again having the opportunity to praise the great work of the social partners in the Committee on Vacation Law when the new holiday law comes into being. A new law introducing a completely new holiday system with a contemporary holiday. A job in which employees and employers, through their representatives, came together and found solutions to difficult problems. Today we are going to deal with a resolution from the New Civil, Conservative and Liberal Alliance. The parties have jointly chosen to propose the abolition of the holiday money system, an issue which from time to time appears in different contexts. The authors of the proposal justify the proposal by saying that the Danes can work out how to save and manage their private economy. They therefore believe that it is paternal that the Danes cannot get their own money immediately, but must make use of a holiday money system. On the whole, I must start by stating that the purpose of the holiday law is to protect the safety and health of workers. The current vacation system ensures that employees pay for holidays and ensures that their employees have an interest in giving both head and body a well-deserved breath of air sometimes. This is very good for the working environment and helps prevent wear and tear. I fear that a system in which the employee receives his or her holiday allowance, together with his or her salary, could tempt employees to have a smaller holiday. This would serve neither the health of the individual employee nor society, as everything else would lead to a faster weardown of the workforce. Having said that, Denmark is also obliged to comply with the EU Working Time Directive, and these rules set limits on how much we can change the holiday law at national level. For example: employees are entitled to four weeks' annual paid leave under the EU Working Time Directive. The leave may not be replaced by a cash allowance unless the employment relationship ends. This means that it will not be in accordance with EU law that the holiday allowance is paid together with the salary, because this is precisely a significant risk that the paid holiday money will not be used to take a holiday. In this context, Denmark has also provided for the possibility that the fifth holiday week to which the Vacation Act entitles may be paid without the holiday being taken. The Vacation Act is to a large extent also part of the collective agreements and thus part of the balance between the two sides of industry. In other words, a change in the holiday law could upset the balance between the social partners. With this in place, we can also note that Denmark recently received a new holiday law, which entered into force on 1 September 2020; a holiday law, which the social partners are behind and which a united Parliament supported. As I said, the new holiday law introduced a vacation at the same time so that you can take the holiday immediately after you have earned the holiday. This is a huge step forward, especially for new people in the labour market, and for those who have temporarily left the labour market. The time when the employee earns vacation in one year and can only take the holiday in the following holiday year is over. The paid holiday money therefore comes much faster to pay than before when the holiday is taken. But now back to the proposal. For the government, it is important to maintain the system of income and a subsequent payment when the holiday is held, as it guarantees the employee the possibility of rest periods in the form of holidays. And yes, it is certainly the attitude of the government that holiday money should be in the pockets of employees. The employees just need them to keep a well-deserved rest in a busy everyday life; a rest where they should not worry about the economy. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear once again that the consequences of the proposal would be an infringement of EU law. The government therefore sees no reason to abolish the holiday money system. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173326	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173332	The vacation money system is a class example of a system in a nanny state. Instead of receiving full pay, the state takes 12.5 percent. of the basic salary and place them in an account. Then you have to apply for the money to be paid out, as if it is the state's money, which you can only graciously get if you behave like a good social democrat and take your vacation. The argument is that otherwise people won't save money for their holidays. But why is it that the government believes that exactly holiday money should have a special government account for? Surely the government does not think that there should be a government account and that you withdraw money from people's wages and put it into the special account so that people can save up for a car or for Christmas gifts is all sorts of other things? So why does the government agree to that special treatment in relation to holidays? Or, to put it another way, why is the government in favour of us having this very untenable, expensive and bureaucratic system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173437	Thank you. In fact, I think it is time to ask Mr Seligman as well. Rasmus Jarlov a question, because this new holiday law was actually a law passed when Mr. Rasmus Jarlov himself was part of the then government. Does that mean that sir... Rasmus Jarlov also then regretted his involvement in the creation of that law? The second thing I want to say is that I think we have a system that works today to ensure that the employee is given a vacation safely with his salary in order and, moreover, also complies with the EU rules in this area. That is why we find no reason to change the holiday law right after we have adopted a completely new holiday law, by the way, since Mr. Rasmus Jarlov himself was in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173523	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173525	If that is really the reason why the government is in favour of the holiday money system, then we are out on thin ice here, I have to say, because the Minister for Employment knows how it works in the Folketing. There you vote for things that improve, in relation to what the situation is today, even if you have some desire to go further. We want to abolish the holiday money system in the Conservative People's Party. I always wanted that. The Minister will be able to find countless blog posts and all sorts of other things over many, many years. So, no, of course we haven't changed our mind. However, I would like to hear the attitude of the government and the defence of the fact that we are going to have this immense bureaucratic system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173601	I think I have explained this very well. First of all, I do not share the view that it is not legally binding or anything else. We have a system that works and that ensures that the employee actually took the holiday to which he or she has earned the right. Secondly, at the same time as we have a system that is fully in line with the EU rules in this area. We are satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173628	Thank you. And the next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173633	Thank you. I just need to confirm that it is the government's view that you will not be able to change the Danish holiday money system without conflicting with Article 7 of the Working Time Directive. After all, the Working Time Directive is about securing four weeks' holiday without a reduction in wages or without a basis for income. It is not, of course, a question of maintaining the Danish holiday money system. There are a large number of other countries that have a different holiday money system. So is it not true that you would be able to abolish it here, so that the holiday money was just included in the salary, and then when the salary went beyond 12 months, would you still have the right to be able to keep your 4 weeks of holiday with pay and still away, without it being contrary to EU law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173718	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173719	I do not feel safe enough in my knowledge to be able in my answers to give a closer EU legal analysis of it, so that if you set up the system in a certain way, you will be able to find a way to do it within the framework of the provisions of the Working Time Directive. So I'll have to get back to Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen about in writing. On the other hand, what I have just seen, and I have been informed by our skilled lawyers in the Ministry of Employment, is that a proposal such as that put forward in the motion for a resolution would not be in line with EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173749	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173751	What EU law says is that four weeks' holiday is guaranteed without loss of income. But you haven't, if you've got the 12.5 percent. throughout the year. Then it's not without income. Then it's just spread out over the year and not through a state system. So I would like to have a written answer as to whether it is true that you cannot make a scheme, such as the one they do. In Germany, where it is included in the salary, it has the natural wage throughout the year, thus guaranteeing full pay during the holidays. This would not be contrary to EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173828	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173830	And, of course, we are happy to provide the written answer. So, the government's position, as I have also explained, is that we neither see nor share the analysis that we have a system that is wrong. On the contrary, we have a system that supports the fact that all employees are actually on holiday with the salary they have earned, while at the same time getting the coherent rest on the labour market, which we as a society are also happy to see everyone take care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173903	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no more brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. While the Minister is scoffing, we can welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517173923	Thank you for the floor. And thank the proposers for taking the initiative in discussing the Danish holiday money system. One might say that it is very good to have an opportunity to praise a good system and the parties behind it here from the Parliamentary Chair so thank you for that. I came - also in relation to the Minister's speech - to think that with the contemporaneousness that has come into the new legislation, it is probably where we look at things very, very differently, and I'll say so and now I say it in English: If it ain't Broke, don't fix it. Well, if there's nothing wrong, why do we have to start repairing something that actually works? Actually, it's just to say that that's where I think we're looking at this is a little different. In fact, we in the Social Democratic Party think that in this area we have a system that works fairly well. Words are used as guardianship and lack of freedom, and it is said that the Danes themselves can handle their private finances. And so we do not disagree that the Danes can find out, and I also do not think that our holiday money system necessarily reflects the opposite. I think that the holiday money system that we have set up helps in some way both to ensure that there is security and that there is some protection in terms of health, as we know that this holiday is being held and that there is actually an economy for it. I also believe that, in relation to our companies, it is an advantage in the long term that we have some employees who, during these periods, have the opportunity to recover. Then you can say that they can just get the money from the salary, and then they can choose for themselves, but there is a risk that we will lose a group in this way. It can be said that what is the whole essence of the holiday law is that we continue to support the social democracy. We can also be concerned about the consequences of abolishing this automatic holiday savings that we have put in. One can imagine some scenario where it is those who are already extremely hard pressed, who now do not see the opportunity to take a holiday, but rather want to create a better economic space. It's just to say that for us, it's a bad solution on the long track. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Something has also been mentioned about the European Union's labour directive and the collective agreements that are in this area, and that is at least one of the arguments for something purely directive-related. Then, as we heard from the New Citizens before, I am inclined to say that you might be able to adjust in some other way, in which you can somehow bypass this. But we just think basically from the Social Democrats that we actually have a very good model that has shown its sustainability for a very long time, and we do not see any reason for us to go in and change it. So, with those words, we in the Socialist Group cannot recommend the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174242	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are also a few brief comments, and here again it is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174247	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the Social Democratic Party is in favour of us having compulsory savings for Christmas gifts, for example. Now that the Social Democrats are in favour of us having compulsory savings for holidays, why not go further and make forced savings for all sorts of other important purposes: rent, a new car? These are things that are immediately more important than saving up for your vacation. So why is it that we have to have this weird arrangement, where we're gonna take 121⁄2% and we're gonna take 121⁄2% and we're gonna take 121⁄2% and we're gonna take 121⁄2%. of their basic salary and put them into a special account instead of just giving people their money from the start? Can't people manage their own money and power to save up for their vacation? At any rate, I believe that the people I represent can find out and will appreciate that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174334	Sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174336	Yeah, I actually think so, sir. Rasmus Jarlov is very right in, that is, the last part of it. However, it is no coincidence that there has been an EU directive. It is no coincidence that the social partners are actually making agreements in this area, which has a long history. After all, we do not have a long history of making compulsory savings for everything else in relation to the pay. Exactly holiday and holiday law is based on a history when we have had a society in which employees were not guaranteed or guaranteed holidays in themselves. That's one of the things we've gotten into a vacation law. Here we will ensure and ensure that it is held. I see no problem with the model we have created, and I do not think that this is something that gives us reason to make some additional savings for holidays or Easter or anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174422	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174424	After all, no one has as much respect for historical reasons as the Conservative People's Party. Nevertheless, it cannot only be a reason for maintaining something, for having historically had some problems with people not being guaranteed their holidays. People are So the holiday money scheme alone means that there is a compulsory savings to take holidays. So I miss the reason for that. If we are to take citizens out of office in this way, there must be good, serious reasons for this. It's actually a pretty big offense that we take 121⁄2%. of their salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174500	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174502	I think that is a little counter-productive in the sense that what was asked about was what the explanation is for saving up for the holiday money and not for a car or for Easter or for Christmas gifts or anything else. And that is what I was trying to say earlier in a historical context, namely that it is in this way the reason why we have the model that we have in Denmark. And we just feel that the Social Democrats think it works well; we think it ensures that our employees actually have this holiday and that there is actually an economy for it. So we think we have a model that works. And as I said, why change something that works well?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174534	Thank you for that, and I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174538	I can understand why the Social Democrats do not see that there is a problem with taking 121⁄2%. of people's money and then say, you need it for this. I understand that from a socialist point of view, but that is also why, from a citizen's point of view, there is a problem with the state dictating that you have to save these 121⁄2%. Because we want them to be used for this. And I would like to challenge something: no one here is tampering with the Working Time Directive, No. 7, about the four weeks' right, which is EU-determined, or the contractual right to take a holiday. I would like to ask the rapporteur: do you not think that German workers have the right to take a holiday?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174624	Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174625	This is, after all, a starting point in the proposal put forward by the Conservatives, which we are discussing here. Well, I do not necessarily interfere with how the other countries have arranged it, but I do relate to how we in Denmark have screwed it up here, and there is just what I am saying is that I think we have found a good model that works and where, with the simultaneousness of the recent change that has taken place and which has been a broad resolution in the Folketing, there is support for the holiday money system we have and which, moreover, is also driven by the social partners who, in some of these negotiations, have helped to make what we are exalting to law. I simply do not necessarily see the problem in that. But we look at it differently, and that's fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174710	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174712	The problem is, if you have a solution that doesn't really work in Denmark, because it didn't; otherwise you wouldn't have to change it. If that was the golden solution, you wouldn't have had to change it when you changed it lately. In addition, it may well be that this is an expensive and bureaucratic and administratively heavier solution for business that costs more than what another solution could do and which is more troublesome than what another solution could be, and therefore it could actually be a gain for business and therefore also for workers if one switched over to a system that was more simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174740	Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174741	I think I just have to repeat myself and say that I think we're looking at this differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174748	Thank you for that answer and then there are no more brief comments to the Social Democrat rapporteur. I can see that, sir. Bent Bøgsted is ready, but we must welcome Mr. Bøgsted first. Stén Knuth from the Left. Here you go to the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174805	Thank you for the floor and thank you for allowing us to discuss the holiday money system. We in the Left share the wish of the proposers to change the holiday money system far along the way. Basically, we also believe that the vast majority of employees are able to manage their own economy and save up for holidays. As a liberal party, we believe in human freedom and trust that people themselves can make decisions in their own lives. It is quite natural for us to do so. But the question is also more complex than that, and this has already been clarified in the first questions here. In politics it is often the case that there are more nuances than that. And although we, together with the proposers, would like to look at the possibility of changing the holiday money system, as we know it today, we will not be able to vote in favour of the proposal as it stands here. And there are just a few reasons for that. Some of this has been mentioned by the ministers, namely that we are obliged, through the European Union, to ensure four weeks of paid holidays per year. It is a guaranteed right under the EU Working Time Directive. That is why we cannot simply remove the holiday money system, as we know it today, in the way the proposal also makes it here. We believe that it is worth looking into that area and looking at how, within EU law, we can make the system more liberal, including for the individual worker. We would like to be able to continue working on this in committee. That is why we hope that we will be able to discuss in committee how we can create more freedom in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174943	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is also a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen this time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517174947	I had a hope that the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, would have been able to look out of this paternal nanny state, as the holiday money system is, that you wanted to get away from it. What the proposal does is not to remove people's right to vacation; nor does it remove people's right to vacation with pay; it just removes this rigid system, and then you put the 121⁄2%. over the remaining 12 months, which you then get. So it is not the case that you suddenly have to take a holiday without pay, nor is it the case that you suddenly lose your right. We're just losing this rigged system where the state thinks they have the right to keep some of that money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175025	On a long stretch, the Left agrees with new citizens in the considerations mentioned here by Lars Boje Mathiesen, which is why we would also like to be allowed to discuss it further in committee. There are, in fact, some questions which the Minister also pointed out that we can actually do so, and how can we do so if at all possible? We would like to discuss this further, including with the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175045	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175047	Good, and we'd like to do that with the Left, absolutely. Because there are a large number of EU countries that do not have this rich holiday money system and they are not in conflict with EU law. So to the idea that if you remove it and distribute it in 12 months and give it to the citizens instead, all of a sudden you would have to come into conflict with EU law, I would say that I think Germany would have had a problem a long time ago. So I look forward to discussing it. And then I hope that the Left can see that the concerns you have really do not need to be there, and then it could potentially be a common bourgeois project that we could go to elections next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175118	Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175119	Thank you. And we would very much like to take up the discussion and discuss further how we can do so. But I also think it has to be said that the platform here has pointed out that there are some issues that we must have drilled out before we can look into some solutions. Whether or not we have to go to the polls together, we will have to see when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175137	Thank you, sir. Stén Knuth. There are no more brief comments. We need to get the alcohol off before the rapporteur goes down. While Mr. Sten Knuth is doing it, we should welcome Mr. Sten Knuth. Bent Bøgsted, who is DF's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175157	Thank you for that, President. This resolution is, in fact, an old acquaintance, but with a little new, because now New Citizens have joined the ultraliberal club, which will abolish the holiday money for the Danish employee by saying: they must be paid. Actually, I'm gonna give Mr. Knox a hand. Rasmus Jarlov is right. His voters, who are typically monthly and who are paid during the holidays, have no problem with the abolition of the holiday money system. They have no problem with it at all. All those who are monthly paid there are also very many HKs who are monthly paid • have no problems in this regard because they are paid during the holiday. Those who suffer if you do away with this are the last 20-30 percent. of the Danish workers, as New Citizens and Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen does not represent, because it seems that some other workers are represented. They are not the ones who get in trouble and are standing in the bank and having trouble paying some bills, where the bank will say: you have some money standing here. Then you say, "Well, they're saved for vacation." Then the bank says: Well, we don't care about that; you have to pay your bills. That's how it goes at the bank today. This is how it happens to the lowest-paid if they have some money standing there, please pay by box one. These are the ones that the Danish People's Party also wants to ensure, compared to the fact that they also have a month where they have money to pay the fixed expenses. Because we must remember that the holiday money is not intended for travelling on holiday; it is intended to pay the fixed costs. And if you can't afford to save up for a vacation, you have to spend the money to pay the fixed expenses. But the bank is also quick to say: you have some money standing here. I have tried that myself before entering the Folketing when I worked as a special worker. There was no dear mother at box one, even if you had saved up some money, but there are others who have never tried that. We just have to make that clear. That is why I find it sad that an attack is being made on the holiday money system. Of course you can argue if it can't be made smarter. It could be. It also says that you can make arrangements with the bank that the money should be there. Yes, but the bank is a bank; they have to make money, and they want their money back in. There's just paying at box one if you have some standing there. Then it doesn't help to say: we made an agreement that they were for vacation. Then the bank says, "Well, you have a bill here, you have to pay." So there's no dear mother or anything to come after there. We just have to make that clear. It would also be difficult to set up a free choice system in this context, where you could still have holiday money away and where all those who are monthly paid said: we do not have to get them now, because we can just get them paid on a regular basis. They can easily get that, but the rest cannot; the hourly wage can't do that. And these are the ones for which we in the Danish People's Party also take an interest. We take the interest of all employees, whether they are highly paid or low paid, whether they are craftsmen or unskilled or what they are. Either way, you have to look after their interests. We are not doing this by saying that we are abolishing the holiday money system so that they get the money paid out on a regular basis and then have to administer it themselves. It is also not easy to manage money if you have someone standing in an account and you want to go to town one night. Then you spend a little of the money you've got there, and then you don't have it for the holidays. It is so easy to say: Well just make a deal with the bank; you can manage it yourself. 70% of the Danish workers can manage it themselves, but as parliamentary politicians we also have the responsibility to deal with the last 20-30 per cent who have problems. We cannot just legislate for 70%. of employees. We need to legislate for everyone, and then it may well be that some people say: Why should I not just have them paid out; I can manage it myself. Yes, that is absolutely right, and all those who sit in this Parliament today can manage for themselves, but there are a lot of others who can't do that when you're out on the labour market. So you just have to take into account the fact that, for example, there is a difference between the two. may be a small family that belongs to the low-paid whose car or washing machine breaks down or whatever it is you need money for. And it's not always possible to just go and borrow from the bank. Of course, you can take a quick loan. I strongly advise against that, because it's a bad thing. Then the bank says: You have some money that is in an account; you can use it. Then you say, "Well, they're for vacation." Then the bank says: We don't care about that; you can pay here; you can't borrow money from us. That is why we cannot support this proposal. We take care of the 20-30 per cent that need the holiday money system to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175710	Thank you. The first to ask for the floor is, in fact, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175714	Sir. In his speech, Bent Bøgsted called it ultraliberal to want to abolish the holiday money system. And then Mr. Bent Bøgsted, that abolishing the holiday money system would hurt the weak. In other words, how is it worse for you to get the money paid along with your salary, rather than for the money to be put into a holiday account, where you should then remember to apply for the money to be paid out? What would be worse if we abolished that system and allowed people to have their own money? It can never be bad that you get the money right away. This is precisely the way to avoid having to take a quick loan, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted also mentioned in his speech if the washing machine breaks and you had the money immediately. You will have to take that quick loan if you do not have the money, because it is in another account, instead of having it at your disposal. So why don't you explain how the weak will be affected by the abolition of the holiday money system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175813	Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175815	Well, I'll do that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, for I did the same in 2017, when Mr. Rasmus Jarlov made this proposal. So says Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that you can take that money to the washing machine, if you have the money on your own account, then you shouldn't take a quick loan. But then you do not have the money to pay flat-rate expenses, because the money you get in holiday money is to pay the four-week flat-rate expenses. They are not intended to travel on vacation. It is intended to cover the fixed costs of the month you take a holiday. If the money is not there, you have no money to pay the fixed expenses during that month and then you have a certain part of the body in the water crust.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175851	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175853	Well, I'm actually not quite sure that I understood it, and it's quite honest. I simply find it difficult to see that the fact that the money falls later should be an advantage for some people. I understand so much, sir. Bent Bøgsted says that people can come and take the money if you have some creditors that you owe money if they're on the account instead of standing in the holiday money account. But then they can just take it later when the money comes to payout. Well, I don't understand how it can be an advantage to get your money taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175929	Bent Bøgsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175931	Well, that's because the holiday money you have to stand in a holiday account replaces a salary income for a month. They replace wage income for the four weeks of compulsory leave. This means that creditors cannot take into account the money needed to pay the fixed costs during that month. But if they're on the account, the bank can say that you can use that money to pay the creditors.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517175956	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180000	I find it sad to see how the Danish People's Party has become such a socialist system party. I think so. But it's probably a product of sitting in here for so many years, and many of DF's members have been sitting on a double mandate and probably some of them on a triple mandate. So you've been used to getting these salaries close to 1 million. kr. or above, and then you don't understand what the reality is for people out there. This is the patronage of the worst drawer, and when the Danish People's Party says that they care for 20-30 per cent, which you say can't handle their money yourself, what is it? Of course they can find out, and if they have a little difficulty with it, it is no more difficult than having a budget account in your bank. You go in and say to your bank: You know what, I'm gonna take a vacation this month, you can't take care of it. A lot of Danes do, and it will be distributed in 12 months. They know about what they have in income, then they make a budget line and then they transfer money to it so that they are sure that they have on the expenditure. Imagine that there is a bank that will then say: You know what, we empty your entire account this month, and then you can't pay your bills. You've been sitting in here too long if you don't know how it's really going on out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180114	Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180116	Then I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that I am probably the one in here who has been the furthest out on the pulsating labour market in the factories. I know that some of my colleagues say that they have been in the labour market and maybe they have been in a union. But I've been to the factories, down on the ground; Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen wasn't very long. And then I'd like to be excused from being accused of earning more than a million dollars. kr. I don't. I don't have a double mandate. I don't make more than $1 million. kr., and I know how it goes out with ordinary employees if they go to the bank and they have trouble paying. I have my doubts about that, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180158	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180200	The rapporteur must listen. I said that this applies to some of the members of the Danish People's Party in this Parliament. I was not talking about the rapporteur. But there are a number of Members who have double mandates, and perhaps some of them even have triple mandates. And then I understand that you can no longer understand the value of a coin. That's probably where the problem is. But I can promise you that out there, where I come from, you'd like to have these 12.5 percent, because it may be that you can just use them to pay the bills you need on an ongoing basis. Those people out there on the floor can't see why the state has to hold this money and they're gonna be baked like some little kid who's gonna have Friday candy. They think they can do it themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180237	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180238	Well, I just wanted to say that right now, too, I see New Citizens as a small child who is going to have Friday candy. I've been able to understand everything that exists with double mandates in New Citizens. For this reason, those on the labour market can manage these 12.5 per cent, I would say: yes, 70 per cent. of the Danish workers can, but not the last 20-30 per cent, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen certainly does not represent, although New Citizens call themselves the second largest working party. You do not represent those on the labour market who have problems; you have no social profile.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180312	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, and this time it is for Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180317	We also have voters and Members who earn the right to holiday money and receive it when they take their holidays, and none of them say to us: now you have to keep the holiday money system for us; we need to make sure that we have money for our holidays. None of our LA members or voters have told us to protect this. On the contrary, they are clapping in their hands when we say that we want to abolish it. Are the voters of the Danish People's Party in need of this protection? Is it for the sake of the voters of the Danish People's Party that we should make sure that they save money for the holidays, because they cannot find out for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180352	There are a great many of our constituents who can find out for themselves that is absolutely right. We have more voters who can figure it out than the Liberal Alliance has. But we also take into account the weakest.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180405	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180406	Yes, yes, at the moment the Danish People's Party may have more voters than the Liberal Alliance, but so, the Danish People's Party is going down, and we are going up, so it may be that we meet at some point. But that means that there are simply Members and voters in the Danish People's Party who come to Mr. Bent Bøgsted and says: Now you're gonna have to make sure we pay those 121⁄2%. to an account that we can get paid for the holiday, otherwise we are afraid that we will spend the money before we get a holiday. There are DF voters who go to Mr. Bent Bøgsted and praying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180436	I have now received no representations for anyone who says that we must abolish the holiday money system. I must honestly admit that. The people I've talked to are both low-paid and high-paid, and they think it works very well. So I haven't been asked that we should go into the breach to get this system out of the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180455	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no more brief comments, but we need to get the alcohol off. Meanwhile, I can welcome the SF rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180515	I had been completely out of control just now. I was told that the Liberal Alliance was on its way up, and I can of course hear that too; since we have a starting point for three mandates, it may be difficult to get further down, but I look forward to looking into those figures. I just want to say that I think it is fast that we should discuss the rules for holiday money again. It is a very short time ago that a unanimous Parliament adopted the new holiday law, and I also think that, in respect of how much turbulence such great things mean for employees and, incidentally, for employers too, because it is soon after that that that we must turn things upside down again. I also think it is such an important issue that, when we deal with it, I think it is a very good idea for us to do so in close cooperation with trade unions and employers' organisations. I think that the holiday money system provides security for employees. The families can look forward to the holiday without worry about whether there is money in the account or whether they should have been used for anything else. The SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180630	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then we need to get the alcohol off. Then it is the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180646	Thank you, President. It is not so long ago that we have been given a new holiday law, a system which, from September last year, has secured a simultaneous holiday, which means that you can, as an employee, take your holiday during the same period as you earn it. This was quite an important improvement, especially for those who are new to the labour market, because it will then be possible to avoid having to wait a whole year for paid holidays. When I highlight this, it is to point out that in the Radical Left, if we think there is something that can be improved, we are willing to look at it. But we do not share the view that there should be something wrong with the holiday law as it is today, and when there is nothing wrong, we do not see any reason to change it, and therefore we cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180743	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, but there are just a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180750	In fact, I did not think that Radicals were such a paternal party, which was in favour of citizens being treated like young children who cannot have their own money. The vacation money system makes you take 12.5 per cent. of people's salary and put it into an account, and then they have to apply for the money, instead of just getting their own money paid out immediately. How is that good for anyone? Well, who is it that benefits that they only get their own money later, and why do we have to spend a lot of money managing it? It is difficult both for citizens who have to make these applications, and it is also difficult for companies who have to sit and keep an eye on a special holiday account and who thus have several different payments and accounts they have to keep an eye on, instead of being able to pay people's wages and then it is out of the world. I mean, who's gonna benefit this system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180835	Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180836	Well, I've heard sir. Rasmus Jarlov use the word presumptuously in his questions to the other rapporteurs, but I simply do not agree that this is the case. After all, this is also about what kind of system you want, and there we do not agree with the Conservatives that there should be no holiday money, that there should not be this holiday law. However, we are in total agreement that it was not optimal as it was in the past and that we now have an improvement, and it must then be allowed to work, and I actually think it is something that cannot be fixed in a resolution. However, in the case of the previous holiday law, the social partners were quite close to that, and I think that is something that needs to be heard here if we are to change it at last.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180924	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517180926	I didn't really think I got an answer to who it's worth, but I can actually give an answer myself. Because it benefits the organisations that are involved in managing the system, but it is actually the only ones I can see that have any benefit from it. In the old days it was said that, because there was an interest rate advantage, it was an advantage for employers that they had to pay the money only later, and then they got more liquidity in the fund. Today it does not mean so much because interest rates are so low that the interest rate advantage is not very high, and therefore today there is also more sensitivity to abolishing holiday money. In other words, the cost and the ill-administration of citizens simply do not measure up to the microscopic benefits that could be enjoyed by some companies in this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181012	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181012-2	I think it will be of benefit to some other people than those who Mr. Rasmus Jarlov can point out, namely all those people who go to work and who actually have a sense of security and certainty that you also have some vacation at some point. I actually think a lot of people find that satisfying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181030	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181033	It's just to get a few misunderstandings in the ground. This isn't about the vacation law, it's not about repealing the vacation law and the right to vacation. Now the rapporteur has said it a few times, but this proposal has nothing to do with it. In addition, it is a motion for a resolution, and it is not a legislative proposal. So it is not exactly what it should be and we ask the government to do so, which is traditionally the way to do it with motions for resolutions. But I would like to ask whether the Radical Left, if one could now present a system which was less costly and less administratively burdensome both for business and for citizens, would not be interested in looking at such a system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181108	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181109	Thank you for the lesson on what are resolutions and legislative proposals. I can't believe I hadn't caught that at all here two years after being elected to the Folketing. The point here is that we disagree. We in the Radical Left do not believe that the motion for a resolution should be implemented. We do not believe that the money should be paid out, but that it should be placed in a holiday account.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181134	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181135	No, I have no urge to lecture. But it was just because the rapporteur said some nonsense from the platform, and then I am trying to help the rapporteur in that respect. When you say you don't think they should have these 12.5 percent. I would like to ask: who is it that benefits? When we don't talk about the right to vacation, what kind of citizens do you think it's good that they don't pay out this money so they have it on the account so they can use it for what they want?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181202	Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181203	I mean, as I also said in my reply to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov that it benefits the people who have a guarantee that there is some money that they can spend at the time when they want to take a holiday. It is clear, then, that it could be done if they were paid out, and then you could set them aside yourself. But I am quite happy with the way we have the system now, because there will be some who need these holiday money to come out into another account and that they 12.5 per cent. is not paid out by the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181238	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. While we are just getting drunk, we welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181300	I think it is fine that we have a holiday law, and I think that because I really want to look at the other side of this problem complex, namely that there is something that ensures that the workforce is actually on holiday. It is a social long-term consideration which is about having the resources to work throughout your life. I think it is important, because the opposite of that consideration is said to be something like the company's workforce being used and thrown away. It is therefore important to ensure that people take a holiday, and I think that is very good in relation to the holiday law, and that is one of the ways to do it. For those who are not permanently employed with a pension and holiday paid throughout their adult lives, this means that you have to set up a scheme to ensure that they can have that opportunity, even when they are an hourly wage worker, they are fired three times a year and that sort of thing. For who else would pay for the period when they do not have their job? You can't get cash benefits if you like. Takes a vacation. Well, maybe it's important to do that kind of practice. It's... it's...
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181427	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. A brief comment came to the end. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181433	It's just to make it clear that this isn't about whether there should be or not a holiday law. It is about whether there should be a holiday money system to manage it here or whether you could have a system that was actually more flexible and that did not cost so much money for business and was not so much trouble and where people were entitled to the money and should not remember to apply for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181449	Here we go. Here we go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181451	Well, if I may reply, I would like to say that I think it is important that people have the right to holiday and that it is important that there is a holiday and the way in which it is guaranteed is by doing so, because that means that it is financed by the employers you have during the year when you are not employed and have paid holidays, just as we are in here, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181510	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181512	That is correct, but the right to holiday is guaranteed by legislation other than that relating to the holiday allowance system. It is determined by the EU labour market directive and the Working Time Directive and by other places and so on. This is not guaranteed by holiday money legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181537	Yes, it is exactly supported by the way our holiday system is built up, it supports that you have the opportunity to assert your right to take a holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181548	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for the answers. There are no further brief comments to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181600	We hope that the Folketing will vote in favour of our proposal to abolish the holiday money system, which is so clear an example of a nanny state. Instead of people getting their full pay, the state takes 121⁄2%. the basic salary, placing the money into a compulsory savings account, and afterwards you can only get the money if you fill out an application to have it paid out. The argument is that otherwise people would not get the money set aside to take a vacation. That's a strange argument. After all, there are many expenses that it is important to save for. New house, new car, Christmas presents and everything else can usually be managed by citizens themselves. We do not have a state account for Christmas gifts, for example, although it is quite a disaster if you stand on Christmas Eve and cannot afford to buy gifts for your children. Holidays are no big deal in this way, which is why it is rather strange that in this area we should give our citizens this kind of authority. It is expensive and bureaucratic and it is not worthy of adult people that we treat them like children in this way. Those who defend the holiday money system say it is good for the weakest. It's not. It's not good for anyone that you only get your money later. It can never be an advantage for you to get the money later, compared to if you received the money immediately along with your salary. Some people then say that it is good for companies that they get a cash advantage by keeping the money a little longer, and it is so direct at the expense of employees, one might say, a little strange that we stand and defend employees here before companies, but that is not good for companies either. It was perhaps good for the companies in the old days, when the interest rate was towering, it was important that they had a small liquidity advantage by having some money in a holiday account for a quarter longer. Today it doesn't matter that you get to keep the money for a quarter, because the interest rate is so low and the cost of managing this scheme is significant for companies, it makes their economy more opaque because you pay different amounts at different times and thus find it harder to get a clear overview of what you actually owe. The vast majority of companies, and especially small businesses, just want to get it out of the world instead of having this forced savings. So let us now put an end to the outdated system, which is the expression of such an impertinent mindset, let us treat people as adults.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181847	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no brief comments. We need to get the booze off before the rapporteur goes down. The next rapporteur is LA's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517181913	Thank you. Sometimes in this Chamber it becomes very clear whether one gets out of such an employee's way of life or whether one gets out of such a more independent way of life. I come out of the latter, but I can hear from many politicians that they come out of the way of working life, and it is as it is in its way. We have also learned about it in social education: that it is such a thing that you go to work because you have to go to work and because you have to have money to take time off. It is not because you really care so much about working, but because you need money to take time off. That is what we are told in social science education. That's not what I'm saying. It is the social science teachers who claim it, everywhere in the country; it is in the books and so on. I can live with people feeling that way, so that work is something that has to be done, and then you have to go home and take time off. It's fine. What I do not understand is when the representatives of the employees in the Folketing, in addition to representing the interests that one has in that way of life, also believe that if one has the way of life, if one is an employee, one simply cannot manage one's own life. So, not only helping the person, you simply have to decide over him, because when you're an employee, you can't find out about saving up for your vacation, you really can't. So that's why we're gonna have to take 121⁄2%. of their salary each week each month and deposit into an account, and then they can take time off with that salary perhaps 4 weeks in the summer or 3 weeks in the summer and 1 week at another time. One thing, then, is that you look at work in this way, but that as a representative of the people who look at work in this way, you also think that they simply cannot manage their own lives, going beyond my understanding; I do not understand that. There are plenty of employees in the country who can find out how to put money aside in a budget line for them, for example. shall pay their quarterly instalments on their mortgage loans. How come they can find out? Shouldn't they have some compulsive savings to pay off their loans? Can you really leave it to them to set up a budget line themselves and then set off three months' wages to pay the quarterly mortgage repayments? They can't figure that out when they can't figure out how to put money off and into an account to take their vacation with them, can they? So the very thing about taking up a mortgage at all, you're gonna have to have some help with, according to this line of thinking. I don't have it, and the Liberal Alliance doesn't have it, and that's why we want to abolish this holiday money system. We can only see it as an advantage for people that they get their wages paid immediately and that they can then set off the money to take a holiday with which they want to set off to take a vacation. It must also be said that people are in different periods of their lives, and in relation to the fact that you have to take 4 weeks' holiday to get your holiday money paid, it may well be that you are in a period of your life where you actually need more money than you need to take a holiday. It is not something you should do all your life, but if you are 22 years old and you want to save up for your first house or something, it might well be that that year you needed to go to work and make money rather than need to take a vacation. But this is something we are forbidding from Parliament's point of view. There is a majority in the Folketing that forbids people to think that way, because whether you are 22 years old or 57 years old, by the Social Democracy, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party just that it is best that you take 4 weeks' holiday instead of perhaps taking 3 weeks' holiday and then earn some more money for example. to buy his first house. We are not there and that is why we are voting in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517182331	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517182344	Thank you. There is no greater disenfranchisement and clientisation of citizens than the holiday money system. I see this picture of little Gustav and his Friday sweets for me, where the parents ration Friday sweets, because otherwise little Gustav gets hurt in his stomach because he eats it all, and it's not good for little Gustav. This is the approach of the Folketing to adult, legal citizens. After all, one does not really think that the Danes can take care of their own resources: it is probably going wrong for them, so it is probably best that Mother State does it for them. This is a view which we do not share at all in the new citizens. The proposal is not about removing people's right to take a holiday, absolutely not. It's about removing the rigid system where the state takes 1.5%. of the citizens' money, and then they have to help me apply for their own money back. What's that? There are parties in the Social Democratic Party, Radical Left, SF, Enhedslisten and unfortunately also the Danish People's Party who state that it is liberal, yes, the Danish People's Party even calls it ultraliberal, that there are other parties that believe that citizens can manage their money themselves. They say, "What about those who can't?" But do we really always have to make legislation for the few? And what about all those who can do that? When you think that people cannot manage to save for holidays themselves, as parties such as the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party believe, why only holiday? Can people manage to pay their rent anyway? Wouldn't it be better if the government did it for them? The vast majority can do it, but what about those who can't do it themselves? If there are now 5 per cent who cannot and who are having trouble paying the rent, would it not be better for the state to pay it for all of us? Every year we see up to Christmas that some people may not have been saved for Christmas gifts. With this thinking, the same parties think: by far most people can save up for Christmas, but there are some who can't, so perhaps it's better that the state holds back a little of all people's money, so there's also for Christmas gifts. That is what lies behind that thinking. In new citizens, we believe that we must abolish the current holiday money system. That is why we have tabled this proposal together with our good friends in the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. We believe that people can manage their money themselves and we believe that people will take the holiday they feel they need. I would like to thank the Left for being accommodating and say that if a system can actually be knitted together that is better and more flexible for the workers, so that we do not under-authorise the citizens and which can also work for the business community, they are actually willing to look at it. Unfortunately, there are parties like the Danish People's Party who believe that allowing citizens to keep their money because they can manage their holiday money is an expression of ultra-liberalism. This is probably something that the rapporteur has picked up from the press office, and he has probably been told to remember to call the new bourgeois and conservatives and the others ultra-liberals, because it blurts the image that you yourself have gone all the way to the socialist wing. But the citizens out there can see it through, and when I talk to people out there, they ask us to say in here: change that system; we can do it ourselves; we don't need mother state to manage our money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517182810	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517182825	The debate is open and first of all we must welcome the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517182851	Thank you very much for the floor. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution to abolish the offsetting of income from work in the basic amount of the national pension. The aim of the proposal is to reward the participation of the elderly in the labour market. The government would like to see even more seniors who can and will continue to work even if they have reached retirement age. But we in the government are also concerned that the individual will have a dignified end to working life. This means, in particular, that those who have had a long and hard working life will be entitled to an early retirement pension. I am pleased and proud that we have succeeded in guaranteeing this right to this group of seniors who, if any, have contributed to the Danish welfare society through a long working life. I would like to acknowledge that the Conservative People's Party, with its motion for a resolution, is focusing on the fact that as a society we must reward those who take an extra turn in our labour market. In this context, it may also be relevant to look at making it easier to understand the possibilities and benefits of working after the retirement age, which is why I am pleased that the retirement and wear-out commission is looking precisely at simplifying the rules of the pension system. The Commission is also looking at whether the pension system is designed so that it will also in future support seniors who can and want to stay longer in the labour market. It is a commission set up by the parties behind the senior pension agreement, a conciliation group, of which the Conservative People's Party is also a part. Against this background, of course, it is a little surprising that the Conservative People's Party is tabling this motion for a resolution and is not awaiting the report of the Commission which you yourself have helped to set in motion. I think it is wisest to await the outcome of the work of the Commission and I look forward to receiving the Commission's report in 2022. In recent years, the focus has been on maintaining seniors in the labour market. Social democracy has also helped to introduce a number of other measures in recent years which have made it economically more attractive to work after the retirement age. I believe that today we have good arrangements that reward those who are full-time or part-time and who continue to work after they reach their retirement age. You do not have to receive a retirement pension because you have reached the age of a national pension. Anyone who has reached the retirement age may choose to postpone the retirement pension and participate actively in the labour market for at least 750 hours a year, as opposed to later raising the retirement pension by a supplement, a waiting rate. The rate of waiting is increased, the longer the pension is suspended. People's pensioners with high labour income will benefit from the possibility of a retirement pension and thus avoid their income from work leading to an escalation of their oldage pension. Instead, they can obtain the pension set up at a time when, for example, they are entitled to a pension. have a lower or no income at all. In addition, greater flexibility has been introduced in 2018 in relation to how to get the waiting allowance paid, and it is precisely to make it more attractive to use the scheme, since for example, you can choose a faster payment of the waiting allowance. I can also point out that the basic allowance for the income of pensioners in the case of personal work has been increased several times, so it now amounts to DKK 122,004. a year. In addition, the reduction of the retirement pension on the basis of the income of a non-retired spouse or collector has been relaxed. This means that pensioners working next to the retirement pension have been given more money in their hands. I think that is a good thing. In particular, a tax-free senior premium has been introduced if you work at least 1,560 hours for one year after the age of the population. The prize is 43,697 DKK. for work in the first year after the retirement age and at DKK 26.010. for the second year after the retirement age. We can see that the scheme has got off to a good start since it was introduced in 2019. The first senior prizes have been paid from September 2020 and up to February 2021 the senior prize has been paid to a total of 5.545 persons. That's about 16%. of the employed persons who have had the age to be eligible for the senior premium. That so many citizens have received a cash reward for their efforts in the labour market, I think we can only be satisfied with. Today, the basic amount of the pension is reduced by 30%. of the income from personal work over DKK 344.600. The proposal, which has been proposed, will involve an additional cost, since in that case all beneficiaries of a national pension will receive a full basic amount, and the increase in public expenditure in the proposal will thus go to high-income pensioners, who are currently suffering from a reduction in the basic amount of the old-age pension. For the government, it is important that we take into account the overall economic situation of the citizens. The rules on the offsetting of wage income in the basic amount of the pension contribute to targeting those who have the least. These rules help to ensure that the welfare society and the tax-financed services are targeted at those who need it most. I think we should stick to the fundamental principle of solidarity in our societies. Thus, the Government has no current plans to change the rules on the reduction of the basic amount of the pension by means of income for personal work. The government cannot offend the proposal put forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517183426	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments. Then we'll have to get the liquor off, sir. Minister. Minister means waiter, so it's about getting the liquor off here. The Minister for Employment is so right). Then it is the rapporteur's line and the next one is the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517183454	Thank you, President. Yes, the Conservatives' proposers want the resolution to require the government to submit a legislative proposal before the end of 2021 to abolish the set-off in the basic amount of the national pension as a result of income from work. I would, of course, like to start by recognising this and saying that we are rewarding some of the older citizens who still have the desire and health to continue their working life, even though they have reached retirement age, is a good intention, one might say. As a starting point, it is good when older citizens can and will use the experience and knowledge they have in the Danish labour market. And that is also why I am also looking forward to the outcome of the Commission, which the Minister also mentioned, which has just been set up to examine whether the pension system continues to support seniors who can and want to stay longer in the labour market. That is why I think it is reasonable that we should wait for the work of the Commission before discussing any major changes. I would say that although we in the Social Democratic Party see a great value in having these working seniors, we still see the right to early retirement as one of the great historical victories of the welfare society that we have. And it can be said that it is precisely the field of tension between those who can and will and those who can no longer, who form such very central cornerstones of our welfare society. In the Social Democratic Party, and this may not be surprising, we are of the opinion that the welfare society is a safety net for those who for some reason need community help. And that is also the starting point for us not to think that it is the right priority that is presented in this motion for a resolution. These are some of the measures that the Minister also highlighted and which the Social Democrat Party has also supported. Because, as a starting point, I do not believe that we should be penalised for working after retirement. And there is the possibility, if you have a very good job, that you can have your pension set up. However, we do not believe that you should receive benefits when you still have a very high income and income in relation to it. So, from this point of view, we in the Socialist Group cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517183730	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517183746	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank the Conservatives who are putting forward the proposal here. The Left basically agrees that our seniors are an asset and that we must constantly try to make it attractive to be in the labour market, even if we have retired. In the former VLAK government, the Left was together with among others. Conservatives are also helping to take a number of initiatives to strengthen the economic incentive for continuing employment for our seniors. We have among other things. We have helped to introduce a new senior premium, so that there is a clear financial gain in working, even though the retirement age has reached the age of the population. The purpose of this resolution by the Conservatives is precisely to create a simpler and more reasonable framework for the participation of the people's pensioners, and the Left is very much in favour of this, and we would like to discuss this further with the Conservatives, since, as I have said, we basically agree that the rules should be simplified, and the proposal here will be made if there is a majority for it to create an increased incentive for our seniors to be part of the workforce, even if you have retired. The Conservatives have among other things. together with the Left, we have helped to set up the Commission which has been mentioned here by several people, and which needs to look at how we can simplify the rules relating to the pension system, so that, among other things, the pension system. can be arranged so that it can pay more to be part of the workforce. That work must be completed in the first quarter of 2022 and we look forward to receiving proposals on this and we look forward to working further in the committee on the intentions behind the proposal, which we share on a long stretch. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517183932	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. And then we're just gonna have to get the booze off. Thank you. And the next rapporteur is DF's rapporteur, Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517183957	Thank you. This motion for a resolution is about abolishing the set-aside of income from work in the national pension system. As it is screwed up, it is, after all, the abolition of the set-off in the national pension for those who have a fairly high income after they have reached retirement age, because it is for those who have 344 600 DKK. • those who have more than that per year are those who do not have to be offset in the basic amount of the pension, and only the basic amount is discussed here. In the Danish People's Party, we think it is commendable to look at how to remove the set-off. We just believe that you have to start at the bottom instead of looking at how to remove the set-off for the highest-paid people who already feel that if they are interested in staying on the labour market, there are as many arrangements here they can, among other things. If you have a pension, you will have to wait until you have a pension or a pension. There are very good opportunities in this regard. So all the other things being equal, we think that may not be what we should be looking at, but we would rather look at how to raise the floor limit on when to set off the pension of a spouse or a collector if you are in the labour market. We think that is where we should take action instead. However, it is commendable to have made this proposal, and at some point, if I have understood correctly, there will be a proposal for a new retirement pension. I would just like to say that it will probably be the case that we are voting yellow on this proposal, but it is not so simple to look at how it is done. And as I said, if we now started from scratch and helped those who had a lower income so that there was no setback in their supplementary pension, that was probably the direction we should take first and foremost. It's not like we're just throwing it into the coal cellar, not at all, but it's probably the wrong way to start walking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517184239	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. We're just gonna have to get the booze off here, sir. Bent Bøgsted, so we can get ready for SF's rapporteur. And this is sir. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517184306	In SF, we actually think there's a good reason to look at these set-off rules. We just think it's a good idea for us to look at it that way in a context. I mean, to take this one element out now and deal with it in a snap, detached from which other regulations we should probably make in the area of pensions, we don't think we're going to help the process along the way. In fact, we think there might be good sense in reducing the set-off of income for pensioners, if it is true that it supports pensioners with the lowest incomes. For I would say that we have already made various arrangements which make it attractive to continue after retirement age. So if that's exactly what we're gonna talk about, I don't think it's necessarily this set-off that's the most important thing. After all, we are going in today and giving quite substantial premiums to people who want to continue. When we discussed it a few years ago, when we asked again several times for even a minimum of evidence to show that it would make more people want to continue working, it was so microscopic that the job offer effect would be that today the first year of prizes of DKK 43,000 would be awarded. and the following year with 25,000 kroner. The typical picture is a high school teacher or a university professor or people in good jobs, where they have entered the labour market late and have a really exciting content in working life. We even bought them and gave them a huge prize, although it turned out to be quite marginal what it would have of importance in relation to the people who would then continue, beyond those who would already. But we will not quite reject it. In other words, the problem itself, which is being raised here, is of great interest to us if it is put together in the right way. We do not want to further and once again award pensioners who already live on the sunshine of society. On the other hand, there are many pensioners who are going through it, and we would very much like to see if we can target it, including here, in other words, to limit set-offs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517184527	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments here either. The next rapporteur is Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517184541	Thank you to the Conservative People's Party for presenting this motion for a resolution. In the Radical Left, we believe that work is important for a great many of us, and many seniors also want to continue working after they have reached retirement age. It is, of course, good for our economy, but as it is today, and as the resolution also points out, our pension system is designed in such a way that people's pensioners can experience a marginal tax of almost 80% if they continue to work after they have reached retirement age, and that is because of the set-off rules. In the Radical Left, we want a pension system that promotes participation in the labour market, and that is why we agree with the proposers that the set-off in the national pension for own income should be abolished. Indeed, more people need to be given an incentive to work, and I do not think it is going to be very long before, in this society and in the field of employment, we are going to debate labour shortages. There's also a solution, that is, seniors can work longer without being set off. We in the Radical Left have brought this proposal to the finance negotiations in the past, and that is why it is in line with our policy. There are some elements about the funding in the comments on the resolution that we disagree with, but we are, in fact, very positive about the resolution. We are not going to vote in favour because it is, as it were, the driving force of expenditure, but rather, if we do not take it back to the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517184730	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments here either. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517184748	Thank you. There may be a number of things we could imagine doing in connection with the national pension, but the wage bill is not at the front of the line. Perhaps in the long term we should consider offsetting capital income instead, i.e. working-free gains, because that was an option. Or should you change your mate's dependence? Maybe that's where we should start first. Yes, yes, we must at least be prepared for the retirement pension scheme to have arrived and will remain here for many years to come. It will, because the labour market is changing, and we will have more and more people with more and more working conditions, and they will continue to depend on a retirement pension. So let us look at the entire pension problem, the whole complex, but the wage bill is not the most important and is not at the front of the line, so we are not voting for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517184849	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517184901	Thank you. In New Citizens we basically have the view that we should seek cooperation in the blue bloc, and therefore we also have the premise that if there are tax reductions and tax reductions which have not grown in our seas, but which other good colleagues put forward, we would like to bow down, and then we would like to try, in the spirit of good cooperation, to see whether we can find each other by it. I think that is important, and I think we should take great care to do this in civil cooperation. This is even a proposal which, in a national economic context, is incredibly cheap to finance. I've been told it's $40 million. I would like to say that this corresponds to a quiet day's coronatestning right now. So that you should not be able to finance it in the national economy, you have to go further into the countryside. So we think this is a fine proposal. I also hear some arguments that we have to wait for this Service Commission to come in 2022, but there is our approach to it a little different. If this is just not appropriate, which is administrative trouble and puts some people in trouble, it's not that many people are affected in a bad situation, then let's solve it right away, and then there's a problem less that this Services Commission is going to have to deal with, and the politicians have to take a position on afterwards. So we can absolutely support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517185033	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance immediately. I don't know if he's gone outside. Then we will have to take the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517185053	I'm just gonna get my speech out here. Thank you for spending some of your evenings discussing our motion for a resolution, which is why we believe it should be worthwhile to work. Unfortunately, it cannot do so for pensioners, at least to a great extent. If you have an income of more than DKK 344,600, you will be set off in your retirement pension. You get pulled 30 percent. of the income above this limit, and when you have to pay the very high Danish taxes at the same time, there is not much profit left in working. Of course, we will not force anyone to work after they have reached retirement age, but we would like to let those who do get something out of it. Work often carries wages in itself, but it is also very nice to get something economical out of it. We think that is also healthy for the motivation to want to make an extra effort a little longer. That is why we are proposing to abolish settlement. It will, of course, cost the Treasury a little, but it will be good for the Danish economy and very fundamentally important for our society that we are more about lifting the burden, rather than increasing the number of older people who do not participate in the labour market and fewer who have to take care of them and pay the tax. So we are pleased with the support that has been from the Radicals, partly also from the Danish People's Party and from New Citizens. Thank you so much! We are sorry that there is no majority in favour of this, but we note, however, that virtually everyone has actually said that they agree with the intention to create motivation to work, including for pensioners, and then we have to work with the individual schemes. We probably would have liked to have seen more simple systems, and the simplest thing is to abolish the set-off, because it is the simplest thing to do, instead of constantly building on the fact that we have done it ourselves, so it is not because I want to blame others for it with the senior premium and different rates and constantly making the system more and more complicated. It's getting hard as a citizen to figure out all the tax rules that are, so the simplest thing was actually just to get rid of this set-off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517185323	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov needs to get his booze off here. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517185346	The debate is open and the Minister for Employment is already ready, so go ahead with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517185408	Thank you. Now I've been up here so many times, I kind of know the rhythm. I'm sorry if I anticipated the President's introduction. But thank you for the floor. With the motion for a resolution here, the Conservative People's Party proposes two amendments to the rules on the allowances for self-employed workers. The first proposal is to abolish the three-week waiting period before a self-employed person who ceases to work can receive a daily allowance and, in addition, it is proposed to abolish the one-week waiting period in the event of bankruptcy. The proposal is based on a desire that employees and self-employed persons should be treated equally in the benefit system. In addition, Conservatives propose that the self-employed person may choose to calculate his daily allowance rate on the basis of the two best financial years in the last 5 years. The proposal is justified by the fact that special consideration must be given to self-employed persons, because their income during the last few years before unemployment is generally not representative of their income. It also refers to the fact that self-employed persons have had unfavourable income conditions as a result of the closure of corona. To the authors of the motion for a resolution, I would like to start by saying that, in my opinion, these are changes to the rules that have been negotiated, and I am always prepared, as I shall say later, to discuss the rules and the consequences of them in the conciliation circle. I would like to start with the proposal to abolish the waiting period for self-employed people, and I would first like to state that I agree with the premise that employees and self-employed people should be treated equally in the benefit system as much as possible. It's only fair. At the same time, however, it is also important to emphasise that there are some differences between employees and self-employed people which make complete harmonisation not always possible. Today, as the motion for a resolution mentions, there is a waiting period before the self-employed can receive cash benefits. The waiting period is three weeks at regular end and one week at bankruptcy or foreclosure, and I would like to mention here that the waiting period for self-employed people is intended precisely to provide a level playing field for self-employed people and employees. When an employee becomes unemployed, he or she is subject to the rules on self-inflicted unemployment. This means, among other things, that if you quit your job as an employed employee for no valid reason or are responsible for your dismissal yourself, you will get a 3-week leave allowance for the first time. It is a quarantine which at the same time consumes the daily allowance period. If this occurs several times within a period of 12 months, entitlement to benefit shall lapse and he must satisfy an employment requirement in order to be able to receive benefit again. The rules on self-inflicted unemployment have been introduced to ensure that benefit recipients are available for the labour market and do not choose to be on unemployment benefit rather than in employment. This is a fundamental principle of the benefit system. Selfemployed persons are not covered by the rules on self-inflicted unemployment at the time of unemployment. The reason is that it may be difficult to determine whether unemployment, i.e. the closure of one's business or bankruptcy, is self-inflicted in relation to the self-employed. For an employee, an employer will be able to disclose the specific reason for termination or dismissal and the cashier will be able to assess whether the termination or dismissal is self-inflicted. The same paragraph does not apply to self-employed persons and therefore self-employed persons are not covered by the rules on self-inflicted unemployment. They used to be, but it was simply too difficult to administer. Selfemployed persons have the said waiting period if they become unemployed and apply for cash benefits. The waiting period, contrary to what applies to employees in self-inflicted unemployment, will not consume the benefit period. The former Left Government set up a working group in February 2016 to look at the complex cash benefits rules for self-employed people. The social partners were also involved here. An essential focus of the work was to make recommendations on how self-employed, fee recipients and freelancers could have the same conditions as employees. The Working Party recommended maintaining the existing rules on waiting periods for self-employed persons, which was added to the later agreement on a new benefit system for the future labour market. It was an agreement reached by the then VKLA government in May 2017 with the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party. So, to sum up, the waiting period for self-employed people is intended to ensure a level playing field for self-employed people and employees in an area where the differences between the two groups make it difficult for them to be covered by exactly the same rules. The rules have been examined by a working group which recommended keeping the waiting period for self-employed people. I do not think that the proposal equates self-employed people and employees, since self-employed people are not covered by the rules on self-inflicted unemployment. That is why I am opposed to the proposal. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that a change in the rules should be discussed within the benefit board; I am always open to that. This brings me to the second proposal for an extended calculation period for self-employed people. The authors propose to change the basis for the calculation of the benefit rate for selfemployed persons. The aim is that selfemployed persons can always choose that the best two years within the last five years must constitute the basis for calculating the daily allowance rate. The current rate calculation rules are based on the fact that self-employed persons who have earned the right to unemployment benefit in the last three years preceding unemployment are calculated as the 12 months with the highest income out of the last 24 months. The rate calculation rules reflect a balance between the rate calculated on the basis of income over a longer period of time and the rate reflecting a person's relative current income. The method of calculating the rates is the same for wage earners, wage earners and self-employed workers, and it will be possible to combine the different types of income to calculate the rate. This entry and method of calculating rates is called step 1. However, selfemployed persons already have an additional opportunity to earn the right to benefit. If they do not have the possibility of earning the benefit rights of three years of combined income, they may earn on the basis of the income of the last five years from the self-employed enterprise. Here you can calculate the rate from the best 2 years out of the last 5 years of earning, and the entry and method of calculating the rate is called step 2. Step 2 was introduced precisely as a special possibility, because in some cases self-employed people may have lower incomes in the period leading to the closure of a company, in other words the very problem that the proposers want to deal with. The rules for calculating the rates for self-employed persons were introduced on the basis of recommendations from the previously mentioned Working Party on Self-employed Persons in the benefit system. Thus, it is already possible for the selfemployed to calculate the rate as the best two years out of the last five years of income if they have had low incomes over the last three years prior to unemployment and thus cannot earn the right to benefit in three years. Of course, I am always prepared to discuss the current rules and proposals for improvements, but I also have a little to hear from the proposers, on which basis they believe the current solution is not sufficient. I simply lack a more solid basis to say that the rules need to be changed when there is already an opportunity in the rules on daily allowances. Unfortunately, we do not yet have the basis for figures to make a full assessment of how the new rate rules for self-employed people work. On the preliminary basis of the figures, it is obvious that selfemployed people receive the current maximum benefit rate to a large extent and thus have a high average benefit rate calculated. However, it is the Ministry of Employment's assessment that the inventory is not made on an adequate data basis, and that is why it must of course be taken with reservations. When we have better data at a later stage, we will be able to analyse it further. So I will not vote in favour of the proposal to extend the rate-fixing rules in general for self-employed people. However, I would also like to say here that I am always willing to discuss proposals for changes and improvements in the conciliation circle. I propose that we do so when, with the evaluation of the rules for self-employed people, we have a better basis for assessing the consequences. It is my expectation that the evaluation will be ready by 2022. In relation to the economy, it is estimated by the Ministry of Employment that the two proposals together involve additional post-tax expenditure and a return of 30 million. kr. annual. Of course, we also miss the fact that the proposers have a concrete view of how it should be financed. In addition, I would like to point out that the motion for a resolution is about permanent changes to conciliation rules. In conclusion, I am fully aware that the covid-19 situation has created very special challenges for the self-employed and their ability to maintain an income by 2020. This may affect the rate calculation of self-employed persons. For this reason, the Government has also proposed that self-employed persons in step 1 may be allowed to extend the basis for calculating the benefit or early retirement pension to 36 months. I believe that this will alleviate the vast majority of the challenges of calculating the daily allowance rate for self-employed people in the context of the covid-19 situation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517190343	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517190347	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for taking this proposal so seriously. I would also like to thank you for the thorough examination I very much appreciate. I am also extremely grateful to the Minister for saying that the Minister is willing to consider discussing this here, including in the conciliation circle, which, of course, must also be set up here. There are two issues that are just pressing on. We can start with one: does the Minister have any sense of how many fewer entrepreneurs are in Denmark, simply because of feeling insecure, because you cannot get on unemployment benefits at the same level or at the same time as ordinary employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20210517190425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517190426	First of all, I would like to thank you for the receipt for the way in which I accept this resolution on behalf of the government. I do, of course, because I also know that it comes from a place with Mrs Mona Juul, which has a sincere and fervent desire and an interest in helping self-employed people who get into trouble, not only in connection with the covid-19 situation, but in general terms, and to secure them. So I'd like to sign for it. I have no knowledge, to the best of my knowledge, of how many fewer entrepreneurs you will be able to count on there to be, but basically I have a warm and fervent desire that all self-employed people will insure themselves against unemployment and the situation that they either have to close their business or go bankrupt. I think we basically have an interest in more people not just employees becoming part of our benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517190537	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517190538	Thank you. With regard to the fact that we must also take account of the self-employed, and it has been, and still is, very violent for a great many self-employed people in the context of the crisis we are in now, the Minister mentioned it here with the 36 months. Could it be imagined that further steps will be taken to ensure that the self-employed are successful? Can the Minister perhaps clarify some of what was said? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517190607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517190608	After all, Mrs Juul himself mentions the concrete proposal in which we have tried to take into account the situation that has arisen in 2020 for many self-employed people. I do not wish to stand here in advance and deny that, either in the current negotiations or in other negotiations, further action can be taken. On the other hand, I would like to say that we fully share with the Conservatives the desire that as many as possible self-employed people, employees, large companies and small businesses make it through this pandemic with their skin on their noses and hopefully come out stronger on the other side. So far we have made many agreements on this, and I will not deny that more agreements can be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517190652	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. After the Minister for Employment, this is the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517190719	Thank you for that, President. It is the case that the proposers of this motion for a resolution want to improve the allowances for self-employed people. Then I say a little bit with a glimpse in my eye that otherwise it is not so often that the Conservatives are tabling resolutions aimed at making the benefit system more favourable. But the proposal is not aimed at employees in this case either, but at the self-employed. It is the case that we want to abolish the waiting period for the self-employed in the case of unemployment and make it optional for the self-employed whether they want to spend the two best financial years in the last five years before unemployment. The reason is a desire to equate self-employed people and employees with the benefit system, as is the fact that the calculation of rates for the self-employed takes account of the current situation, which has also been mentioned here, where, of course and unfortunately, the closure of corona has had some negative consequences for many companies. However, I would just like to say from the outset that, since the proposal is conciliation, the Social Democratic Party will not vote for it, but, as the Minister also opened to it, we will be very happy to take part in the debate on the benefit system. So as far as this is concerned, there has to be an opening from here. We also agree, as a starting point, that employees and self-employed people should be treated as much as possible in the benefit system, but I also believe that we are somewhere and recognise that there are some fundamental differences between the two groups, which of course are also reflected in the benefit system and which are also applicable today. As the Minister mentioned, self-employed workers are not covered by the self-inflicted unemployment rule, and therefore the abolition of the waiting period for the self-employed in itself would not equate the two groups, but would give the self-employed an advantage compared with the employees covered by the rule. In other words, if we were to accept that premise, we would not be able to think of anyone in terms of demanding some relaxation of the rules on self-inflicted unemployment if we were to abolish the waiting period for self-employed people. There is, of course, a reason why we have introduced this system, because it is, like, not being able to make a choice to step out of work, but that it has some consequences if you do. In addition, the proposers have also wanted to make it optional for the selfemployed whether they used the two best financial years in the last five years before unemployment as a basis for calculating the benefit rate. The proposal argues that, in recent years, the income base of the self-employed is not necessarily legal over a long period of time. In particular, the situation during the corona closure is highlighted. And I would just like to repeat what the Minister has already said, namely that the government has just taken into account the particular situation of the self-employed during the closure of the corona by extending the calculation period to 36 months. We also got in and out of model 2 a description that there was this one with the 5 years in relation to the possibilities that lie here. I must say that I also agree with the Minister that it is perhaps a little difficult to be able to see sufficiently that there is a demonstration of the need to extend the system we have further, but, as I said, perhaps we can have a talk about this afterwards. However, in view of the fact that this is conciliation, we cannot recommend the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191102	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Stén Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191124	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Conservatives for the opportunity to discuss a better framework for businesses and entrepreneurs. We are very much concerned about this in the Left: how do we create a better framework and more security for both businesses and entrepreneurs? Most recently, the Left has put forward proposals on how entrepreneurs can have better access to capital, which contains five very concrete initiatives. The proposal here aims to improve the safety net of businesses and entrepreneurs, thereby both increasing the incentive to jump out as an entrepreneur, but also increasing security. The Left supports the intention to increase the incentive to create its own businesses, and we support the intention to increase the security of Danish entrepreneurs. We are therefore happy to discuss further in the committee work how we can create more security for businesses and entrepreneurs. We also want to highlight the economic consequences of the proposal. I could hear that the Minister has some figures, and we would like to have them verified. We will be voting yellow on the proposal here because it contains both elements that we can support, but also elements that we want to see clarified further. Finally, as several others have said, I would like to say that the Left also believes that we should ensure that the adjustments in the benefit system, as we are talking about here, contain elements of something that has been agreed in an agreement in 2017, when we entered into this agreement, take place in that circle, so that we secure broad political support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191300	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191325	Thank you. Much has been said about this resolution, which is a commendable proposal for the benefit of small self-employed people who have little problems. Like others, I also think that it should be brought into the conciliation circle so that we can look at it in the context of the evaluation that is coming. In line with what the Minister for Employment said about this, I have called on Mrs Juul to ensure that it is submitted to the Conciliation Committee in order to get it through, because it is reasonable proposals that lie in it, but it is in the conciliation circle that we shall have to agree on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191417	Thank you. No brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191431	The proposal is from the Conservative People's Party but it is not completely crazy, that is. I think that we can look at both equality, but, of course, so much at improving the rules on daily allowances. So if you think about these Conservatives' proposals with the idea of making access to the daily allowance more flexible, more difficult to enter, more difficult to get thrown out, then I think we should look at it in committee. Unfortunately, SF does not have access to the fine conciliation circle, but we would very much like to support a discussion on how we compare it in those situations where it is not, but so much improves it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191514	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Karsten Hønge. So the next person to speak is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191531	Thank you very much. Thank you to the Conservative People's Party and to Mrs Mona Juul for raising this debate, because we also believe in the Radical Left that the Corona crisis has shown us how difficult it is to seize self-employed entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs when the crisis hits and unemployment hits. We in the Radical Left are in favour of both elements of the resolution, both the abolition of the waiting period and the element of making it optional to use the two best financial years. The way I listen to it is actually open to us to take this debate, whether it is in the conciliation circle or in the summer package negotiations. It's just to say that from here we in the Radical Left are very positive about looking at this, and it could also be that we could make a good report text together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191636	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191649	Thank you. For almost two years now, New Citizens have been following the principle that, although it is not a proposal that comes from ourselves, but it comes from some of our good friends in the blue block, we bend very, very far to support it. We believe that we should do so, and that is in the spirit of good cooperation, and we have done so with a large number of proposals over the two years, and we continue to do so. We think it is important for good cooperation in the Blue Block. So we're going to support this. Now it has to be in conciliation and everything else, and neither the rapporteur nor I sat in the Folketing when it was, but let it be, we will find out. But we can certainly support it in the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191733	Thank you. There is no brief comment to be made on the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, but we have just one rapporteur that I missed, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517191754	We must ensure stronger social rights for small businesses. We do not hear much about this in the debate that is often going on, but the issue of social security is really crucial for many entrepreneurs and for many self-employed people. For a lot of people, this also means that you never dare try to be independent or entrepreneurial. 70% of employees have said that it is the concern about the possibility of obtaining maternity leave or cash benefits if it becomes relevant that they would never dare to make the attempt as an independent or entrepreneur. Since that study was carried out, we in the Enhedslisten, together with the government and the understanding parties, have ensured better maternity rights for self-employed people, and during the corona crisis we have made some small steps in the area of benefits for self-employed people, but they have been temporary and not altered by the fundamental problem. We should change that, both because everyone deserves to be able to live with a high level of social security, and because the lack of security keeps too many from dared to take the leap, dared to start up as self-employed, even though they may have a thrilling idea and they will be able to put forward a sustainable business concept. For us in the Enhedslisten, it is important that we, as an entrepreneur or self-employed person, should, as far as possible, benefit from the same social security as employees. That is why we have also made a concrete demand for better rights for self-employed people in the benefit system, because frankly, if you contribute on an equal footing as employees to the benefit system, why is it that you do not have a right to equal treatment? Why isn't there this equality? In 2017, an agreement was made in the field of unemployment benefits which, on the one hand, brought improvements and, on the other hand, caused deterioration. There were improvements for those who are so-called combinators they are those who have both an income as an employee and as a self-employed person because now income as both self-employed and employee can be included in the calculation. But there were also deteriorations and backward steps in the agreement. Part of the financing of the agreement was that persons with a so-called self-employment received a reduced benefit period from 78 to 30 weeks and, at the same time, the minimum benefit rate for self-employed persons was removed and a calculation of the benefit rate based on earnings during the previous 24 months was introduced. This may therefore be problematic, because it simply means that some self-employed people are at risk of obtaining a very low rate of unemployment benefit, as they may experience a period of very low earnings before their business ends. I think that is quite logical, so that if a company ceases, it has probably had a period up to which you have had very low income. And this is a problem which has been widely recognised before, because we have just solved this last week, I think, with some of the aid packages in relation to the benefit system. So there we have, for example. dispensed with the rules and solved this problem here during the corona crisis. In addition, the 2017 agreement maintained a fundamental but problematic requirement, which I am very pleased that those behind the motion for a resolution are helping to highlight, and that is because it is the problematic requirement that one must completely shut down one's business in order to be entitled to benefit if one's business is one's main activity. Quite frankly, it is not appropriate, and it is actually quite short-term, to be forced to shut down one's business if an economic crisis hits society and, for a period of time, lowers profits. Because here you get pushed out to sell your inventory, sell it all, and it just makes you have even longer to get an opportunity to start up again. In the Enhedslisten, we do not want people who experience liquidity problems for a short period of time to shut down the company completely and dispose of everything, including their tools, everything that belongs to the work. Instead, we want the benefit system to create opportunities for you to have an income until you can get your business going again. And if you have a company, you should also be able to put it into hibernation, and we have concrete suggestions on how to do so. I would very much like to discuss this with the Conservatives. And my impression was, in fact, that the Minister for Business would also create that dialogue this spring. We're still waiting for that to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517192305	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we have reached the point where the rapporteur for the proposers will be put on the floor, and that is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517192326	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor, and thank you for a good first reading with many positive expressions. Yes, this is gonna work. I've waited intriguingly for you as parties to stand up for yourselves. Should today really at long last be the day when we will have equal employees and self-employed workers in the field of unemployment benefit? Because, of course, there should not be a difference between the benefits available to self-employed people and those available to employees, should there? I think we're gonna change that. I'm listening that we can actually do that. The quite unreasonable so-called waiting period must go away and, of course, the self-employed should not have calculated future unemployment benefit on the basis of an average of the last 12 months with the most income in the last 24 months before unemployment. Because it is precisely in the time for you to have to close, that you may have to throw the towel, that the earnings get to the bottom. So it is simply not fair and it is not a reasonable basis for calculation. Even if there is a majority in favour of such a motion for a resolution as this one, there are still some things that we need to look at, and the rapporteur before me mentioned some of them. After all, companies must first be closed and shut down, everything must be sold, the CVR number must be closed and dismantled before you can raise your daily allowances as a self-employed person, which you have paid for yourself. We would also like to discuss how we can do better, but we just chose to take it a little bit in pieces, because it must obviously be a struggle to safeguard the independent basic rights. In particular, we have seen it under corona, i.e. the lack of focus on the self-employed, i.e. those who have to secure the jobs of today and the future, i.e. those who have the courage and the desire to bake the social cake bigger, so that the slices do not just get thinner and thinner and never get all the way around. When the Corona knocked, a tripartite agreement on wage compensation was quickly drawn up, but the fourth party was forgotten; the self-employed were forgotten. When the rate of wage compensation was later raised, it just happened not to include the self-employed, and when the rate of hard pressure was finally lifted for the self-employed, it came with a condition of how much they had to pay for themselves. Who do we think we are? That's what I think sometimes. Where do we really think the entrepreneurs of the future would rather start their business in a tax battle, a heavy bureaucratic system with little opportunity to raise capital, and where, at the same time, we do not support it if you roll over? This is sometimes done as an entrepreneur and self-employed person. It's inevitable. Ideas are constantly being developed to strengthen and support entrepreneurship, which is made a sea of ideas, but not always so much happens. The government does not even want to abolish the Phantom tax, which, in fact, does not cost anything and which will ensure that entrepreneurs and companies within, for example. Biotech will be able to attract capital and thus grow and create jobs. I very much fear that the many good intentions end in pool fun, where public funds are sent back to public bodies. There's nothing we can do with that. But with this resolution we will at least create some kind of justice, but we will also ensure that self-employed people are not just allowed to sail their own seas, because we know that this is one of the barriers to start up. Because we are not like the United States, where everyone is his own lucky blacksmith, but we are in Denmark, where we have a different mental attitude, where security also matters, where we need at least as much as many people throw themselves into running their own business, and we need to understand that those who want to be self-employed are whether you are a game developer, café owner, bikesmith or sell children's clothes online. They may do so for my sake, but we also need all the others, i.e. those who just earn the day and the way, and who may even contribute jobs or just want to work exactly like this. And the wild thing is that this costs an exceptionally small amount and that it will probably only contribute to the courage of more people to become self-employed and that this really amounts to additional revenue. ASE has helped us in Conservatives to calculate it, and we have come to the conclusion that it will cost a maximum of 15 million. kr. to drop the waiting period. With regard to the method of calculating rates, we have to ask the Minister through the committee, and the Minister has already mentioned an amount here. We should try to see if we can count on it together. But overall, it can hardly be the large amount in a social perspective, in that self-employed people make up so few of the total number of annual unemployment cycles and, moreover, self-employed people draw on the benefit system for less time than employees. There is no one in this country who wants to be on unemployment benefits, but there is certainly no self-employed person who does. At least I don't know them. Conservatives have set aside 300 million. kr. in reserve in our own financial act, which we could easily use exactly for this, which is a relatively small amount of money that needs to be raised, and I am sure that if the government could just do a little magic, then we could also find the funds if we wanted to. I hope and look forward to a good committee work that we may have a report text prepared and that we will meet in the conciliation circle so that we can once and for all secure the Danish self-employed and get done and do it a little more straight in the benefit system. Thank you very much for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517192834	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210517192848	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Tuesday, May 18, 2021, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
